DRN-3732107
The complaint
Mr B complained about how ReAssure Limited dealt with a fund switch request and the
transfer value paid when he transferred his pension to a new provider.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 15 September 2022. I set out the background and my 
provisional findings. Ive repeated that here. 
One of our investigators looked into both aspects of Mr Bs complaint. Mr B had requested a
fund switch on 24 January 2021. It hadnt been done by 28 January 2021 so Mr B called
ReAssure. After some delay in getting through the rebalancing was processed while Mr B
was on the telephone. Unfortunately a couple of days later Mr B saw online that the switches
hadnt been carried out correctly. He called ReAssure on 1 February 2021 and requested
that the switches were reversed using the 28 January 2021 prices. ReAssure didnt then
cancel the fund switches as requested.
ReAssure did a loss calculation to see if Mr B had been financial disadvantaged. ReAssure
concluded he hadnt and sent the calculations to Mr B on 15 June 2021. Hed by then
transferred to a new provider. The value transferred was £221,653.04. ReAssures
calculations showed, without the fund switch, the transfer value wouldve been £221,219.99,
some £433.05 less.
The investigator was satisfied Mr B hadnt been financially disadvantaged. ReAssure wasnt
seeking repayment of the overpayment and had offered Mr B £400 for the distress and
inconvenience hed been caused. The investigator said she wouldnt be asking ReAssure to
take any further action in respect of that aspect of the matter.
The second part of Mr Bs complaint concerned the transfer value paid - £221,653.04. Mr B
had said, during a telephone call on 23 February 2021, he was told the transfer value was
£223,458.56 and that was guaranteed. So the transfer value paid was £1,805.52 less than it
shouldve been. Mr B was also unhappy that ReAssure had used a valuation as at 4
February 2021 when the transfer hadnt actually been carried out on that date.
The investigator said ReAssure had made Mr B aware that the transfer value wasnt
guaranteed. She referred to a unit statement issued on 17 February 2021 which confirmed
the fund and transfer value was £223,458.56 but warned that these are current values and
are not guaranteed. The funds are revalued on a regular basis and can go down as well as
up.
The investigator agreed that selecting a valuation date because the value was lower would
be unacceptable and unfair. But she didnt think ReAssure had done that. Usually the
transfer value paid was the value on the date all the transfer requirements were received.
ReAssure would therefore value the policy at the date of the transfer request or the date of
receipt of the final requirement if any were outstanding at the time of request. In this case
there was no outstanding requirement so the date used was the date ReAssure received the
transfer request (4 February 2021). As that was the usual practice, the investigator didnt
think ReAssure had acted unfairly or unreasonably by using 4 February 2021 as the
valuation date.
In summary, the investigator said that the service Mr B had received was unsatisfactory and
has caused him a great deal of distress and inconvenience. But ReAssures offer of £400
was in line with what wed consider fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the
complaint. Mr B hadnt been financially disadvantaged as a result of ReAssures mistakes 
if anything he was in a better position as he didnt have to return any overpayment. The
investigator didnt think ReAssure needed to do anymore.
In response to the investigators view Mr B said he wasnt going to pursue the complaint
about the fund switches. He said it had become very complicated and although he still felt it
was possible hed been financially disadvantaged by ReAssures errors in the switches, he
was happy to keep the complaint solely about the transfer to the new provider. About that he
made the following main points:
Each policy valuation (unit statement) provided should be backed up by a printout
showing his ten funds with the price and number of units. The total will be the
valuation for that date. Hed said in his email dated 23 September 2021 that
ReAssure had never provided proof by way of breakdowns. He needed those to
double check their figures with the printouts hed kept on file. We should ask
ReAssure for evidence to check their valuations were correct.
His main complaint was that he requested the transfer on 2 February 2021 but
ReAssure didnt carry out the transfer on receipt of his request. Hed chased many
times, including the telephone call on 23 February 2021 when it was confirmed that
the transfer value would be £223,458.56. He didnt recall the call handler saying the
value wasnt guaranteed. In fact the opposite  hed confirmed that would be the final
and definitive value and Mr B had confirmed his acceptance of that. We hadnt
listened to the call recording and we should request it again.
On 12 March 2021 hed received ReAssures letter dated 4 March 2021 advising the
full transfer value of £221,653.04 had been sent to the new provider who received it
on 8 March 2021. No back up unit statement was included and the date used to
value the policy wasnt mentioned. He didnt receive the until statement dated 17
February 2021 the investigator had referred to.
After hed complained and ReAssure had written to him on 15 June 2021 with their
calculations and saying he was £433 better off again, no unit statement  which
wouldve allowed him to check the fund units and prices - was provided.
ReAssure had waited many weeks to carry out a backdated transfer. ReAssure had
obviously selected 4 February 2021 as the fund value was lower. If theyd wanted to
use that date the transfer shouldve been carried out on that date, not a month later.
The policy was still live and showing on ReAssures website at the end of February
2021 and hadnt by then been cancelled or transferred.
Mr B agreed that values will vary slightly in subsequent days but that had nothing to
do with a valuation that had been backdated by a month.
He provided online messages to and from ReAssure on 19 February 2021 saying
that the transfer request hadnt been processed.
He maintained the transfer value paid was short by £1,805.52 which would be
confirmed by listening to the recording of the call on 23 February 2022.
The investigator said shed look again at Mr Bs concerns. And that shed be re requesting
some information from ReAssure, including the telephone call Mr B had referred to. She later
told Mr B that ReAssure had been in touch to say that the telephone recording wasnt
available. The investigator said she hadnt changed her view and so shed refer the
complaint to an ombudsman and she asked for any further comments. Mr B said he didnthave anything more to add but he wanted the ombudsman to consider the points hed made
previously.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has told us that he doesnt wish to pursue his complaint about delays in carrying out a
fund switch. So all Ive considered is the complaint about the transfer value paid. That said I
note what Mr B has said about wanting a unit statement to help him understand ReAssures
calculations and why he hadnt suffered any financial loss. Id ask ReAssure, as a matter of
courtesy to Mr B, if a statement could be provided.
In so far as the transfer value is concerned, Ive read and considered everything but Ive
focused on what I see as the key issues.
Mr Bs main argument relates to the telephone call he had with ReAssure on 23 February
2021 during which, according to Mr B, he was told the transfer value was £223,458.56 and
that was guaranteed. ReAssures notes of the call say that a turnaround time of 15 working
days was confirmed, which ReAssure says matches the standard turnaround time including
clearance times. The call notes also say the process was in the final stages so might be
completed more quickly but that couldnt be verified. Theres reference to the values stated
in the letter of 17 February 2021 but these arent guaranteed.
Unfortunately no call recording is available so I cant say for certain what was said. I know
Mr B is suspicious about why the call recording cant be produced but, given what I go on to
say, I dont think as much rests on the call as Mr B suggests.
Essentially, even if Mr B was told the transfer value was £223,458.56 and that was
guaranteed, I dont think that would mean ReAssure had to pay that figure if, in fact, the
transfer value wasnt guaranteed and that wasnt the actual value of Mr Bs policy was on the
applicable date. To put that another way, if ReAssure made a mistake in telling Mr B that the
figure quoted was guaranteed, that didnt mean Mr B became entitled to be paid what
ReAssure had, in error, said.
Mr B was no doubt disappointed when he found out that the actual transfer value paid was
less than hed been led to believe. But, as ReAssure wasnt bound to honour any higher
figure it had, by mistake quoted, any compensation would be on the basis that Mr B had
suffered distress and inconvenience including disappointment or loss of expectation because
a lower figure was actually paid. But he didnt suffer a financial loss as such as hes not
entitled to the difference between the figure quoted and what his policy was actually worth.
The investigator had referred to the unit statement dated 23 February 2021 which confirmed
the fund and the transfer values were £223,458.56 (the figure given on the telephone) but
warned that was a current value and not guaranteed. I know Mr B has said he didnt get that
statement. But, as Ive said, even if Mr B was told (wrongly) that the figure was guaranteed,
that didnt mean ReAssure must pay it. I dont think, if he didnt get the statement warning
him that the values set out werent guaranteed, that changes anything.
On that basis, ReAssure didnt do anything wrong by paying the actual (and lower) transfer
value. As the investigator said, the transfer value thats used generally in the industry is that
applying when the transferring schemes (here thats ReAssure) requirements are complete.
But I am concerned about the time taken to effect the transfer. ReAssures requirementswere complete on 4 February 2021, hence that was the date used for the transfer value. But
the transfer wasnt actually carried out until 4 March 2021, a month later. That meant, in the
interim, Mr Bs fund value was effectively frozen at the 4 February 2021 value. Although it
was protected from any falls in value of the investments, it also wouldnt benefit from any
increases, whether in the funds Mr Bs pension was invested in with ReAssure or the new
investments he was going on to make with the new provider.
As far as Im aware, the policy terms and conditions dont a specific timeframe in which a
transfer to another provider must be completed. Nor does the regulator. I think its view is that
a transfer should be processed within a reasonable time frame and in an efficient manner. Id
agree with that.
As Ive mentioned, ReAssure says Mr B was told over the telephone on 23 February 2021
that the turnround time was 15 days. Im not sure if that was from then or from when
ReAssures requirements were complete. I dont think it can be from the latter  theres no
dispute that ReAssures requirements were complete on 4 February 2021  so almost 15
(working) days had already elapsed.
In any event, I dont think a timeframe of 15 days  whether going forwards or from when
ReAssures requirements were complete  is reasonable. I find it difficult to see why it took
ReAssure a month to process the transfer and send the money to Mr Bs new provider.
I dont know why it took ReAssure that long. Id assume it was simply that ReAssure was
busy and had a backlog of work. But I dont think that should be Mr Bs problem. ReAssure
should be able to manage its workload and any periods when it might be busier than usual to
continue to meet customers reasonable expectations as to the time that would be taken
where a transfer request has been made.
I note that the 2016 TRIG (Transfers and Re-registration Industry Group) consultation
suggests a 48 hour standard for completing each step of a transfer process. I think that since
then things have moved on in terms of electronic platforms and moving money has become
quicker and easier. Against that background I think allowing two or three working days would
be reasonable. Instead it took ReAssure a month to complete its part in the transfer and pay
the transfer value out.
Where theres an error, I can award what I consider to be fair compensation for any financial
loss, distress and inconvenience. My aim in awarding compensation for financial loss is to
put Mr B, as far as possible, in the position hed be in now, but for ReAssures error  the
delay in completing the transfer.
I think, if ReAssure had dealt with the transfer as it shouldve done, it wouldve been
completed within a maximum of, say, three (working) days of ReAssures requirements
being complete. That was 4 February 2021 so the transfer shouldve been completed by, at
the latest, 9 February 2021. The same transfer value (£221,653.04) wouldve been paid. But
it wouldve been received by the new provider much earlier. As things actually were, the
transfer monies were sent on 4 March 2021 and received by the new provider on 8 March
2021. Applying the same timescale (and using working days only), if the transfer value had
been sent on 9 February 2021, it wouldve been received by the new provider on 11
February 2021. And it wouldve been available for reinvestment much sooner than was
actually the case.
I went on to set out what ReAssure needed to do to determine if Mr B had suffered any 
financial loss and how, if there was a loss, redress should be paid. I also said ReAssure 
should pay Mr B compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience hed been 
caused. We didnt receive any comments from ReAssure within the time given for responses to my 
provisional decision. Mr B did comment. Ive summarised his main points about the final 
transfer valuation. 
Contrary to what Id said, everything rested on the telephone recording wed been 
unable to obtain. It would prove the call handler said the transfer value referred to 
would be the final value that would be transferred. Mr B reiterated that it was 
suspicious the call recording couldnt be provided and he said he was surprised we 
couldnt enforce its procurement. 
He had a legal right to a subject access request (SAR). He said he was authorising 
us to make that on his behalf. If ReAssure refused again that would be a breach of 
his data protection rights and I should rule in his favour as a default judgment. 
Hed already requested a valuation statement relating to the transfer value and he 
asked that ReAssure be instructed to provide one. If it couldnt then it would be fair 
for ReAssure to pay him the transfer value promised during the call on 23 February 
2021. 
He doubted that ReAssure would liaise with his new provider and carry out the 
calculations Id said. And the exercise would be difficult as hed made switches and 
withdrawn money in the interim. 
There was no mention of the transfer value being guaranteed. It was simply the final 
valuation that the call handler saw and said that was going to be the transfer value. A 
valuation on a particular date is the exact valuation for that day at that point and can 
go up or down in the days following. But the valuation still stands for the applicable 
day. Hed suffered a financial loss because hed been quoted a valuation on a 
particular date that was going to be paid out to him. 
His view was that ReAssure backdated the transfer to 4 February when the value 
was lower even though his policy was still in force and showing on the website with 
higher valuations at the end of February and as the valuation print out for 16 
February showing a value of £223,342.91 demonstrated  the policy had not by then 
been cancelled or transferred. And on line messages dated 19 February said a 
transfer request hadnt been processed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered carefully Mr Bs comments in response to my provisional decision. I know he 
regards the telephone call on 23 February 2021 as crucial. As Ive explained, weve asked 
ReAssure, more than once, to provide a recording. But ReAssure says it isnt available. 
ReAssure can only provide what it has and if it doesnt have a recording it cant be produced. 
Its up to Mr B if he wants to make a SAR and/or contact the Information Commissioner if he 
thinks theres been a data breach.
I maintain that I can fairly decide the complaint anyway and without the call recording. As I 
explained in my provisional decision, even if I accept that, during the call a transfer value of 
£223,458.56 was quoted as the final valuation that would be paid, I dont think that means 
ReAssure is obliged to pay that value if the call handler made a mistake in referring to that 
value as the amount that would actually be paid. I dont think a difference between the value 
quoted and that paid is a financial loss as such  as opposed to a loss of expectation  if 
theres no actual entitlement to the higher amount quoted in error. 
I did refer to Mr B having been given a guaranteed value. I note what Mr B has said about 
that not being correct and why it might be confusing. I accept there was no mention during the telephone call of the value being guaranteed as such (although the unit statement dated 
17 February 2021 which Mr B says he didnt get did refer to the values not being 
guaranteed). But Mr B was given to understand that the value quoted was fixed in the 
sense that the value quoted was the value that was going to be used for the transfer. But, as 
Ive explained, ReAssure wasnt bound to honour any higher value it had, by mistake, quoted 
or said would apply. 
The transfer value that would normally be used would be as at the date ReAssures 
requirements were complete. That was 4 February 2021 and the value on that date was 
actually paid. But I went on to say in my provisional decision why I didnt think in the 
circumstances of this case that would be fair, given that the transfer wasnt actually carried 
out until a month later. My view was that the transfer shouldve been undertaken within a 
reasonable period, which I thought was three working days. 
All in all my views remain as set out in my provisional decision. Ive repeated what I said in 
my provisional decision in full above and it forms part of this decision. 
Mr B isnt optimistic about ReAssure doing what Ive said to put things right. But what Ive 
said is in line with the redress wed suggest in a case such as this and which may include 
carrying out notional calculations. These can be complex particularly where investment 
switches may have been made and/or money paid in or taken out. Ive included a direction 
that ReAssure provide full details of the calculation and a breakdown of the transfer value 
actually paid (£221,653.04). Ive no reason to believe ReAssure wont be able to provide 
that. 
Ive repeated below what ReAssure needs to do. 
Putting things right
To determine if Mr B has suffered any financial loss, ReAssure will need to liaise with Mr Bs
new provider and ask it what Mr Bs current fund value is and what it wouldve been if the 
new provider had received the transfer value on 11 February 2021 instead of 8 March 2021. 
Mr B may need to give authority to his new provider for information to be provided to 
ReAssure. The notional value should take into account any investment switches and any 
sums paid out.
If the current fund value is higher than the notional value then theres no financial loss. But, if
the notional value is higher, Mr B has suffered a financial loss. In that case ReAssure will
need to pay the difference between the actual and the notional fund value.
If possible any redress should be paid into Mr Bs pension plan so as to bring the value up to
the notional value. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any
existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr B as a cash lump sum after making a notional reduction to
allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid  thats fair as if it was in the
pension, Mr B would only be able to access it as tax free cash and/or income. If Mr B hasnt
yet taken any tax free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax free and 75% would
have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement. Id presume that Mr B
is or will be a basic taxpayer in retirement. So making a reduction of 15% overall from the
loss adequately reflects this.
ReAssure should provide details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format.ReAssure should also provide Mr B with a statement, showing the number of units and
prices in each fund, as at 4 February 2021 so that Mr B can see how the transfer value of
£221,653.04 was calculated.
ReAssure should also pay Mr B £200 for the distress and inconvenience Mr B has been
caused. Thats in addition to the £400 ReAssure has already paid for the other matter  the
fund switches.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. ReAssure Limited must pay compensation for any financial loss as
Ive set out above. In any event, ReAssure Limited must pay Mr B £200 for the distress and
inconvenience hes suffered as a result of the delay in dealing with his transfer request
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman