DRN-2525615
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs S complain of misleading communication by Coventry Building Society about 
the expiry of the interest-rate products on their mortgage account.
To resolve their complaint they want to be compensated by CBS for its misconduct.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs S had a mortgage loan (the main loan) with CBS which was completed on 
11 February 2016, and a further advance which was completed on 7 September 2018. The 
main loan had account number ********/1. The further advance had account number 
********/3. 
The main loan had a fixed interest rate product expiring 31 December 2020. The further 
advance had a fixed interest rate product expiring 30 June 2020. Both products carried early 
repayment charges (ERC).
Mr P and Mrs S say that they started a process of re-mortgaging following a letter from CBS 
dated 14 March 2020. That letter quoted reference ******** and said that their interest rate 
would change to the standard variable rate (SVR) on 1 July 2020. The letter invited them to 
apply for a new product. CBS sent a further letter in the same terms on 27 April 2020. 
Mr P and Mrs S say that in consequence of these letters they asked for the re-mortgage with 
the new lender to take effect on 1st July 2020. But when their mortgage adviser contacted 
CBS he was told that an ERC would be made.
Mr P and Mrs S called CBS and wrote to it on 20 May 2020 seeking waiver of the ERC. They 
say that a few days later they received a letter from CBS dated 14 May 2020. CBS 
apologised if they had found its letters confusing, but it hadnt said both products were 
expiring. It did accept that its letters could have been clearer regarding different products on 
the same mortgage account. It enclosed a cheque for £100 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr P and Mrs S replied to CBS on 28 May 2020. They said that the March and April letters 
had quoted their mortgage number ******** and had said their current mortgage deal is 
coming to an end soon on 1 July 2020, inferring that the mortgage as a whole was changing 
to the higher SVR on 1 July 2020. They said CBS should have said this only meant one part 
of the account. They werent accepting the £100.
CBS replied on 17 June 2020:
You've taken out two loans at different times,  with interest rates that end on different 
dates. .the annual mortgage statement we sent to you on 31 December 2019 clearly 
confirmed the terms for each sub account and the different dates the current products 
expired during 2020.
In response to Mr P and Mrs Ss complaint to our service, CBS said it had issued annual 
mortgage statements at the end of 2018 and 2019. These statements had contained a 
summary for each sub-account. The summary for sub-account 1 had informed 
Mr P and Mrs S that CBS would make an ERC if the mortgage were redeemed on or before 
31 December 2020. The summary for sub-account 3 had informed them that it would make 
an ERC if the mortgage were redeemed on or before 30 June 2020.
But CBS did accept that the letter of 14 March 2020 didnt advise that the change in interest 
rate related to only one sub-account. 
CBS said it had written to Mr P and Mrs S on 16 June 2020 confirming the new monthly 
payment from 1 July. This letter included a schedule of how CBS had calculated the total 
payment, based on the two sub-accounts. The letter made it clear that the change only 
affected sub-account 3.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr P and Mrs Ss complaint be upheld. He said they 
felt CBS letters were misleading as they didnt say the rate expiry related to the further 
advance and not the mortgage as a whole. 
He said CBS sent these letters to remind customers that their rate was coming to an end. 
Such letters were standard across the industry. It would have been helpful to 
Mr P and Mrs S for CBS to state, as a gesture, that these letters didnt relate to the main 
loan, but there was no obligation to do this. Details of the rate and the product end date for 
the main loan had been communicated to them previously.
After becoming aware of the ERC through their mortgage adviser Mr P and Mrs S had 
decided to still proceed with the remortgage.
Mr P and Mrs S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case. They said 
CBS letters had references referring to the expiry of their mortgage as a whole, and arrived 
timely to a verbal renewal date given previously. This had led them to believe that their 
mortgage as a whole required renewal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In their complaint letter to us dated 9 July 2020 Mr P and Mrs S say they had arranged for 
the re-mortgage to be completed on 1 July 2020. I can see that they might be unhappy if 
theyd gone ahead and then been unexpectedly charged for early repayment of the main 
loan. But they knew from CBSs letter of 14 May 2020, if not before, that the proposed re-
mortgage would incur an ERC. However they still went ahead.
Mr P and Mrs S were, or should have been, aware of the end date of the product on the 
main loan. The mortgage offer dated 21 December 2015 set out in paragraph 10 the ERC 
which would be payable for redemption before 31 December 2020. This was repeated in 
Special Condition 2. It was also repeated in the annual mortgage statements for 2016, 2017, 
2018 and 2019.
CBS wrote to Mr P and Mrs S on 16 June 2020 notifying them of their new monthly 
mortgage payment. The letter said:
As your mortgage consists of different parts, we have outlined the individual changes to 
each part of your mortgage below.
Account number: ********/03This change is because your current mortgage rate for this part of your mortgage has come 
to its scheduled end. You are now due to go onto the next mortgage rate, as set out in your 
original mortgage offer documentation. This means that the rate you pay on this part of your 
mortgage will change to 4.49%, which is variable and means that the rate could go up or 
down in the future.
I think it was clear from this that the rate for the further advance would go onto the SVR. 
Mr P and Mrs Ss proposition, that they were told that the whole of their borrowing would be 
free of ERCs on 1 July 2020, seems to be based on the fact that the letters of 14 March 
2020 and 27 April 2020 quoted reference ********.
But this was just their overall mortgage account number. Im not persuaded that giving this 
number is a sufficient reason for requiring CBS to waive the ERC. CBS had informed 
Mr P and Mrs S on many occasions of the fixed interest rate periods and ERCs payable on 
each sub-account. I think that despite the overall account number quoted in the letters, it 
should have been apparent to Mr P and Mrs S that they referred to the further advance, as 
that was the account whose product was expiring. 
Even if they started the re-mortgage process under the mistaken impression that there was 
no ERC after 30 June, the true position was made known to them well before they 
completed the re-mortgage. They could have chosen to wait until the main loan ERC had 
expired.
CBS has accepted that its letters could have been clearer regarding different products on the 
same mortgage account, and has offered to pay Mr P and Mrs S £100 by way of apology. I 
dont require it to do any more. The cheque will by now have expired but I dont doubt that 
CBS will provide a replacement if requested.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021. 
Edward Callaghan
Ombudsman