DRN-3941482
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) avoided his home 
insurance policy. Any reference to Lloyds in this final decision includes its respective agents 
unless specified otherwise.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved so Ill summarise 
what Ive found to be the key points.
Mr P took out a home insurance policy with Lloyds through a price comparison 
website. 
Upon receipt of the 2022 policy renewal documents, Mr P contacted Lloyds to see if 
he could negotiate a lower premium. He also made it aware that the number of 
bathrooms had been incorrectly recorded on his paperwork as 1 when in fact the 
property had 5.
Lloyds informed Mr P that the maximum number of units (rooms) it would insure 
under the policy was 10, and that the addition of Mr Ps further bathrooms took him 
over that limit. So it declined to cover him. 
Lloyds said Mr P had incorrectly answered the application question regarding the 
number of bathrooms at his insured property when he applied for the policy and in 
the subsequent renewals. It said that had it known the correct information it never 
would have offered him cover. It therefore cancelled Mr Ps policy back to inception 
and issued him with a refund of the premiums paid. 
Mr P said he didnt intend to misrepresent any information. He said his property does 
only have one bathroom, but also has four en-suites. He says he must not have 
realised he needed to specify en-suites, but says he informed Lloyds as soon as he 
became aware of this on the 2022 renewal.
Mr P said it was unfair for Lloyds to penalise him for a genuine error. He therefore 
asked it to retain the premiums hed paid and to treat the policy as if it had not 
renewed instead of avoiding it. Lloyds disagreed and Mr P brought a complaint to this 
Service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought Lloyds had 
acted fairly and in accordance with the remedies available to it under the relevant law 
 the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012. 
He also noted that since Mr P had brought his complaint to this Service, Lloyds had 
also agreed to pay 8% simple interest on top of the refund of premiums to Mr P along 
with £50 compensation for the inconvenience of not paying this sooner. Our 
investigator thought this was fair.
Mr P asked for an ombudsman to review the case. So the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For 
it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered 
the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care, including how clear and specific the insurers questions 
were. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the 
qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Lloyds essentially says Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he told it the incorrect number of bathrooms at his property. 
Mr P says he was unaware en-suites needed to be disclosed as bathrooms under the 
policy. So I first need to consider how clear the question was that he was asked in 
relation to this.
I understand Mr P applied for the policy via a price comparison website. I cant see 
that Lloyds has provided us with a copy of the specific question that was asked on 
that website. But it says he wouldve been directed to its own website to complete the 
sale, where its stated the bathroom question includes en-suites. 
This is supported by the welcome pack and renewal documents Ive seen that were 
sent to Mr P and include the answers he submitted to Lloyds questions regarding his 
property when applying for the policy and in subsequent renewals. And under the 
section titled Property to be insured it says, Number of bathrooms (including en-
suites, shower rooms and separate toilets) at the home and the answer has been 
recorded as 1. 
On balance of the available information in this case, I think the question Lloyds asked 
regarding bathrooms at the property was clear. The answer Mr P gave to this was 
incorrect, so Im satisfied he failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation in this case.
Lloyds has provided evidence which shows that had Mr P answered the question 
correctly it wouldnt have provided him with cover. This means Im satisfied Mr Ps 
misrepresentation is a qualifying one. Lloyds seems to have treated it as a careless 
misrepresentation and I dont disagree. So Ive looked at the actions it can take in 
accordance with CIDRA.
Under CIDRA, if a misrepresentation is careless, and the insurer wouldnt have 
entered into the consumer insurance contract on any terms, it may avoid the contract 
and refuse all claims  but must return the premium paid. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Lloyds was entitled to avoid Mr Ps policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, its right too 
that it refunds any premiums Mr P paid. As CIDRA reflects our long-established 
approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Lloyds to rely on it to avoid Mr Ps policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. It follows I 
wont be directing it to do anything differently in relation to this.
Im aware that since Mr P brought his complaint to this service, Lloyds made an offer 
to pay him 8% interest on top of the refunded premiums and £50 compensation. This 
seems fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds offer as set out above is 
fair in all the circumstances. It should pay it to Mr P if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman