DRN-2636723
The complaint
Mr H complains that Equifax Limited sent him the personal details of another of its 
customers when sending him his own credit score report. Hes concerned his own details 
may not be secure and about what he considers to be the poor service provided. He seeks 
compensation. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise the strength of feeling which Mr H has about the circumstances which led to this 
complaint. And having already himself experienced a separate data breach  which is not 
directly the subject of this complaint  I understand his concern.
I also accept the element of frustration at the administrative problems which eventually led to 
his requiring a postal response to his request for a copy of his credit report. Although I find it 
reasonable for Equifax to have security measures in place to verify the identity of those 
seeking personal information.
This service is an independent and impartial informal resolution service. Im aware that Ive 
summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties. No discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to 
do this.
Having viewed the information with which Ive been supplied, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator for these reasons:
1. Its not the role of this service to directly investigate alleged data breaches. That is 
the responsibility of the Information Commissioners Office.
2. The alleged data breach about which Mr H complains relates to a third party and not 
to him. It would be for that individual to take up the matter if they wished to do so.
3. Whilst its understandable that Mr H might have lost faith in Equifax, theres no 
information to show that his personal details have been disclosed without his 
consent.
4. Customer service standards are not of themselves a regulated activity. 
5. Equifax acknowledged its error. It was reasonable of it to ask Mr H to destroy the 
third party information as that is probably the safest way of ensuring there is no 
further unauthorised disclosure of that information.
6. Equifax offered £75 to Mr H. I find that to be an appropriate amount. He was put to 
some inconvenience by the error but didnt directly incur any financial detriment.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Hs concern and frustration, I find that the offer 
made by Equifax is a fair and reasonable basis for determining this complaint.  
Putting things right
 Equifax should pay £75 to Mr H. 
My final decision
I require Equifax Limited to take the action Ive stipulated in the preceding paragraph. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman