DRN-4314699
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the way in which Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handed 
a claim made under their travel insurance policy (the policy).
What happened
The policy was taken out by Mr and Mrs B to cover their holiday booked for September 
2022. Whilst away, Mrs B became ill with a bacterial infection and a doctor was called. 
Mr and Mrs B say Mrs B was confined to her hotel room for just over 48 hours because of 
illness. 
They made a claim on the policy and IPA paid medical bills incurred by Mr and Mrs B and 
the cost of the holiday for two nights for both Mr and Mrs B (representing the time Mrs B was 
confined to the hotel room). From the total amount, IPA deducted the policy excess of £95. 
After Mr and Mrs B said they were unhappy with the settlement amount, IPA agreed to pay 
£60 representing the amount Mr and Mrs B says they incurred buying food for Mrs B whilst 
she was confined to the hotel room. 
Mr and Mrs B werent sure whether the claim had been settled properly. They also raised 
concerns about the way in which their claim was handled by IPA. The claim was made in 
early October 2022, and it wasnt until Mr B contacted IPA around a month later that the 
claim was progressed. Although IPA said it had received Mr and Mrs Bs claim form, it hadnt 
received the accompanying documents in support of their claim. 
Mr and Mrs B are also unhappy with the service they received by IPA during calls. They say 
they were given conflicting information and didnt receive promised updates when contacting 
IPA about the status of their complaint.
IPA issued its final response in January 2023. It concluded that the claim had been settled 
fairly under the terms of the policy. However, it did accept there had been delays in 
assessing the claim and there were occasions when Mr B didnt receive call backs as 
promised. It offered Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs B complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
looked into what happened and partially upheld the complaint. She recommended IPA pay 
Mr and Mrs B the confinement benefit under the policy (with interest) and £150 
compensation (in total) for distress and inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs B agreed with the outcome. IPA didnt. So, this complaint has been passed to 
me to consider everything afresh to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IPA has a regulatory obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it must not 
unreasonably decline a claim. 
The settlement of the claim
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, section 1 of the terms and conditions of the 
policy (entitled cancelling or cutting short a trip) says IPA will pay your proportion only of 
your unused travel and accommodation costsif you have to cut short your trip for 
stipulated reasons. One of those reasons is Mr and/or Mrs B becoming ill.
The definition of cut/cutting short under the policy includes: youbeing confined to your 
accommodation due to personal quarantine on the orders of a medical practitionerfor 24 
hours. 
Although theres no evidence that Mrs B was confined to her room on the orders of a 
medical practitioner, IPA accepted what Mr and Mrs B told them; that Mrs B was confined to 
the hotel room for just over 48 hours due to a bacterial infection. 
IPA has taken the total cost of the holiday and divided that by the number of nights Mr and 
Mrs B had booked for their holiday. That gives the cost of the holiday for one night for them 
both. Its then multiplied this by two to calculate the cost for two nights and used this figure 
as part of the settlement sum. I think thats fair and reasonable, given that Mr and Mrs B say 
that Mrs B was confined to her room for just over 48 hours. 
Confinement benefit
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, section 2 of the policy (entitled medical 
emergency and repatriation expenses) says IPA will pay:£30 per day (up to a maximum of 
£300) for every complete 24 hour period you areconfined to your accommodation on the 
advice of a medical practitioner and £10 per day (up to maximum of £100) towards meal 
expenses for a nominated person who is staying or travelling with you.
I know IPA has agreed to pay £60 to Mr and Mrs B to represent the approximate amount 
spent on food for Mrs B whilst confined to the hotel toom. I accept they did that without any 
documentary evidence. For example, receipts. 
However, I dont think the policy is clear that the confinement benefit of £30 per day is paid 
to represent food costs of the policyholder whos ill and confined to their room. Im satisfied 
that its the benefit of £10 per day it pays to a nominated person travelling with the person 
who falls ill and is confined to their room that is paid towards meal expenses. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the £60 already paid by IPA represents food costs for 
Mrs B, not Mr B. 
So, Im satisfied that its reasonable for IPA to pay the following benefits to Mr and Mrs B 
representing two 24-hour periods when Mrs B was confined to the hotel room:
- £60 in respect of Mrs B (2 x £30); and
- £20 in respect of Mr B (2 x £10).
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that Mrs B wasnt confined to the hotel 
room on the advice of a medical practitioner. However, IPA paid the curtailment claim, as set 
out above, without any advice of a medical practitioner. So, in the circumstances of this case, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to deprive Mr and Mrs B of the 
confinement benefit because theres no documentary evidence from the medical practitioner 
that Mrs B was required to stay in the hotel room. 
The way in which the claim, and subsequent complaint about the claim, was handled 
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that IPA didnt receive the supporting documents attached to 
their claim form. Whether or not Mr and Mrs B didnt attach these properly or there was an 
issue IPAs end, ultimately IPA accept that it ought to have contacted Mr and Mrs B about 
this rather than only taking action after Mr and Mrs B contacted it around a month after the 
claim form had been submitted. IPA accepts this caused unnecessary delays. 
Further, IPA accepts that after Mr and Mrs B raised a complaint about the way in which their 
claim had been handled and the settlement amount, there were calls where Mr B was 
promised call backs which he didnt receive. And this resulted in Mr B having to call back 
again. 
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs B were made aware at the outset that it could take up to eight 
weeks (or 40 working days) for their complaint to be dealt with. Thats the usual timeframe 
stipulated by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. Im satisfied Mr B was made 
aware of the timeframe in calls he made to IPA in November 2022.
When Mr B contacted IPA for updates and to ask questions, he was told on more than one 
occasion that he would receive a call back which didnt happen. 
From listening to the calls, Im satisfied Mr B was becoming increasingly upset and frustrated 
by being told hed receive a call back, only to then have to call IPA again when this didnt 
happen. I dont think IPA has fully understood the impact this poor customer service had on 
him and Mrs B.
IPA has offered £100 compensation. But I dont think this fairly reflects the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr and Mrs B.  I think £150 more fairly reflects 
this. 
So, if its already paid Mr and Mrs B the £100 compensation offered in its final response 
letter, Im satisfied IPA should pay them an additional £50 compensation. 
Putting things right
Within 21 days from the date the Financial Ombudsman Service notifies IPA that Mr and Mrs 
B accept this final decision, I direct IPA to pay them:
A. £80 to represent the confinement benefit due to Mr and Mrs B under the terms of the 
policy;
B. £150 as compensation for distress and inconvenience (less £100 compensation it 
agreed to pay in its final response, if this has already been paid by IPA);
C. simple interest on the amount in A. above at a rate of 8% per year from the date on 
which the claim was accepted to the date on which payment is made. 
If IPA considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any 
interest paid in respect of C above, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much its taken off. It 
should also give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one. That way Mr and Mrs B 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to put things right as 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman