DRN-4113003
The complaint
Mr W complains about his insurer, Ageas Underwriting Limited (Ageas), cancelling his motor 
insurance policy. 
Any reference to Ageas in this decision includes their agents. 
Mr W was supported by a representative when bringing his complaint. References to Mr W 
include his representative.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr W took out a motor insurance policy with Ageas, through a comparison 
website, taking effect later in the month. He paid the full annual premium when taking out the 
policy. He received an email confirming the policy had been taken out and it could be 
accessed online. Mr W subsequently received letters in February and April 2022 asking him 
to verify his email address (which he did). 
In May 2022 Mr W was pulled over by the police, as they believed his vehicle wasnt insured. 
Mr W contacted his father, but he couldnt locate the policy. So, the police seized the vehicle 
and impounded it. Mr W contacted Ageas the following day and was told the policy had been 
cancelled because hed failed to disclose a previous claim. Mr W believed he had disclosed 
the claim when taking out the policy through the comparison website.
Unhappy at his policy being cancelled and being stopped by the police (and his vehicle 
impounded) Mr W complained to Ageas. But they didnt uphold his complaint. In their final 
response they said confirmed the policy was taken out through the comparison website and 
the preferred delivery method (for communications about the policy) was recorded as being 
through download (meaning all documents were to be uploaded to an online account Mr W 
would have needed to set up). An email to prompt the account set up was sent to the email 
address provided by Mr W when taking out the policy. 
Ageas noted that when the policy was taken out Mr W didnt mention any previous claims in 
the last three years. But they were subsequently informed of a claim through the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE). Ageas also referred to subsequent letters sent to Mr W, 
through download, email and by post, asking him to contact them. While Mr W confirmed his 
email address, he didnt respond to the request to contact Ageas (about the previous claim). 
So, Ageas cancelled the policy and issued a refund. Ageas said theyd followed the correct 
procedure (and Mr Ws preferred method of communication) in cancelling the policy. As they 
operated an inbound call centre, they wouldnt have the resource to call every policyholder 
prior to cancellation.
Mr W complained to this service. He said hed declared the previous claims when taking out 
the policy and didnt know there were any issues with his policy. Hes had to pay £170 to 
have this vehicle released, pay a £300 fine for not having insurance and six points on his 
driving licence. This would have a significant (and long lasting) impact on obtaining 
insurance in the future (such as higher premiums). He wanted Ageas to reimburse him for 
the £170 fee and £300 fine and provide an indemnity letter so he could appeal against the 
six points on his licence. He also thought Ageas needed to improve their communication 
because  if an email was returned as undeliverable  they should call the policyholder or 
write to them explaining the problem with the policy and the opportunity to amend things as 
necessary. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Ageas didnt need to take any 
action. Given the evidence from CUE about the previous claim, he thought Ageas had acted 
fairly in cancelling the policy. And theyd tried to contact Mr W about the previous claim by 
email and by post. While one email had come back as undeliverable, Mr W had confirmed 
his email address and other emails sent by Ageas hadnt come back as undeliverable. Using 
two different forms of communication was reasonable, and Ageas couldnt be held 
responsible for what may have happened after they had sent them. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said he had declared all previous claims when taking out the policy through 
the comparison website  but the information hadnt transferred to Ageas. And he didnt 
receive the emails sent by Ageas  but received the letters asking him to confirm his email 
address, which he did. But he didnt receive the other letters asking him to contact them. He 
also thought Ageas should have called him about the potential cancellation, given its 
importance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Ageas has acted fairly towards Mr W. Given the 
circumstances of Mr W being stopped by the police and his vehicle impounded, its important 
to note this service doesnt have any role or remit regarding the actions of the police (nor of 
any subsequent issue of fines and penalty points). So, this decision does not consider the 
actions of the police or the judicial system.
The key issue here is whether Ageas acted fairly in cancelling Mr Ws policy due to his not 
declaring a previous claim when he took out the policy. Ageas say Mr W gave incorrect 
information when he took out the policy by not providing details of the previous claim. Ageas 
say they tried to contact Mr WJ about the incorrect information (by email and by post) but he 
didnt respond. So, they say they acted fairly in cancelling the policy. Mr W says he declared 
the previous claim when taking out the policy and he wasnt aware there was an issue with 
the policy. He says Ageas should have phoned him if there was a problem with the policy.
As the policy was cancelled by Ageas because they considered Mr W hadnt declared a 
previous claim, Ive first considered whether this is the case. Looking at the Statement of 
Fact document when the policy was taken out, under the section headed About the drivers 
insurance history theres a question that asks:
Has any driver been involved in any motoring accidents or claims (regardless of fault) 
in the last 3 years?
The answer to the question is recorded as No. I think the question is clear, as is the answer. 
At the beginning of the document theres a statement that:
Below is a record of the information you have provided. Please check this 
information carefully, if there is anything missing or incorrect please let us know 
immediately as his could result in a claim not being paid or your policy being 
cancelled.I think this makes it clear that inaccurate information  which would include not declaring a 
previous claim  could lead to the policy being cancelled. Which is what Ageas did when they 
found out about the previous claim by Mr W. 
One of the points made by Mr W is that he did declare the claims when he took out the 
policy. More specifically, that hed previously entered details of them when using the 
comparison website, so it may be there was an issue in data transferring across to Ageas 
when he took out his policy with them. Ive thought about this, but Im not persuaded. While 
its possible there may have been a data transfer issue, Ive not seen any evidence to 
support this possibility. 
And it doesnt absolve Mr W of the responsibility to check the information Ageas produced in 
the Statement of Fact document before the policy started  so that the policy was based on 
accurate, complete information. From what Ageas and Mr W have said, it appears Mr W only 
accessed his online account the day after he was stopped by the police. As hed put down 
download as the preferred method of communication, then I think it was his responsibility to 
use that method (including setting up an online account to view the policy documents and 
other communications). I cant hold Ageas responsible for Mr W appearing not to do this at 
the time he took out his policy.
Having established the declaration made by Mr W when taking out the policy (which he 
should have seen on the Statement of Fact document issued before the policy started, so 
would have had the opportunity to contact Ageas to correct it) Ive then looked at the 
information Ageas have provided from CUE. This database holds details of claims made 
under insurance policies, to which insurers record details of claims. 
Ageas have provided an extract from CUE recording a claim by Mr W. The extract records 
the date of the accident leading to the claim (April 2020) and the claim being closed (August 
2020). It also records the value of the claim (as settled). Given these dates, the claim falls 
within the period of the last three years in the question set out above. So, Ive concluded Mr 
W provided incorrect information when taking out his policy (by answering no and in not 
declaring the previous claim). Given the statement above about Ageas being able to cancel 
the policy if incorrect (or missing) information is provided, then Ive concluded they acted 
fairly in exercising their right to cancel the policy because of the non-disclosure of the 
previous claim by Mr W.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive also considered the issue of whether Mr W was aware 
of an issue with his policy  he maintains he wasnt aware, and that Ageas should have 
phoned him if there was an issue.
Looking at the information provided by Ageas, it notes the policy was taken out via a 
comparison website and a welcome letter (and policy documentation) was issued through an 
online portal (for Mr W to download after setting up an account) and as an attachment to the 
email address provided by Mr W when taking out the policy. Information provided by Ageas 
indicates the letter and document werent downloaded (or viewed) until May 2022. As \Ive 
said earlier, I cant hold Ageas responsible for Mr W not setting up an account (having been 
prompted to do so) and viewing the policy documents  and subsequent letters asking him to 
contact them  at the time he took out his policy.
Ageas also say they received notification of Mr s previous claim from CUE a few days after 
Mr W took out the policy (just under two weeks before the policy was due to come into 
effect). They sent a letter by download and as an email attachment to Mr W asking him to 
contact them in the next 14 days  or the policy would be cancelled. However, two days after 
they sent the letter, Ageas received an undeliverable message  So, they sent a letter by post to the address provided by Mr W saying the email had been rejected and asking him to 
confirm his email address. They also sent a copy of the earlier letter by post. 
A week later, Ageas sent a further letter by download and email attachment, confirming the 
policy would be cancelled if Mr W didnt contact Ageas in the next seven days. Ageas say 
this didnt come back as undeliverable. A week later, Ageas received confirmation from Mr 
W of his email address. However, they didnt receive a reply to the letter about the previous 
claim (asking Mr W to contact them). 
As they hadnt received a reply, Ageas cancelled Mr Ws policy just over two weeks later, 
with effect from the beginning of March. Ageas processed a refund back to the payment card 
used to take out the policy (net of a £50 cancellation fee; £20 set up fee; and the time on 
cover). Confirmation of the cancellation was sent via download and email (which didnt come 
back as undeliverable). Mr W subsequently again confirmed his email address at the start of 
April. Ageas replied to the email, confirming cancellation of the policy due to the claims 
information provided when the policy was taken out being incorrect. 
Having set out this timeline and sequence of events, Ive also considered the points made by 
Mr W. He says he didnt receive the emails from Ageas asking him to contact them. Hes 
provided some evidence the issue may have been linked to the form of the email account he 
provided (a work email address). However, as it was the email address he provided  and 
subsequently confirmed  I cant hold Ageas responsible if there had been any issues with 
emails sent by Ageas not being received by Mr W. Ageas di write to Mr W asking him to 
confirm the email address, which he did (twice). The fact Ageas had to write to ask Mr W to 
confirm his email address should also have raised with him the potential issue of emails not 
reaching him.
Mr W says he didnt receive any letters (by post) other than those asking him to confirm his 
email address. Ageas say they also sent a copy of the earlier letter asking him to contact 
them. Mr W says he didnt receive it. While letters can go astray in the post, I dont have 
reason to doubt Ageas as theyve provided a copy of the letter. And given what Ive said 
about it being for Mr W to have set up an online account to enable him to view documents 
and other important communications, then I cant hold Ageas responsible if Mr W didnt 
access the documentation and correspondence through the preferred route he indicated 
when taking out the policy.
On the point about it should have been for Ageas to phone Mr W (as Mr W maintains, given 
the importance of the potential, and then actual cancellation, Im not persuaded by this view. 
Ageas used two forms of communication, at least one of which should have been sufficient 
for Mr W to then contact them. And it would have been open to him to call Ageas.
Based on these points, Ive concluded Ageas acted fairly and reasonably in cancelling Mr 
Ws policy, in line with the policy terms and conditions, because he provided inaccurate 
information about his previous claim, which the above reference makes clear could lead to 
the policy being cancelled. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Paul KingOmbudsman