DRN-4514075
Complaint
Mr B complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with him. Hes said that the payments to the agreement were 
unaffordable and he should never have been lent to. 
Background
In February 2023, Moneybarn provided Mr B with finance for a used car. The purchase price 
of the vehicle was £10,499.00. Mr B paid a deposit of £2,000.00 and took out a conditional 
sale agreement with Moneybarn for the remaining £8,499.00. The loan had interest and 
charges of £4,353.56 and a 60-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£12,852.56 (not including Mr Bs deposit) was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of 
£217.84.
Mr B complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that 
the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that 
Moneybarn had done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. So she didnt recommend that 
Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagreed with our investigator and the complaint 
was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Bs complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr B before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after Mr B provided details of his monthly 
income, which it verified with payslips. It also carried out credit searches on Mr B, which had 
shown he had historic defaults on credit accounts but he had no county court judgments 
(CCJ) recorded against him at this time. Finally, it also says that the credit check 
demonstrated that Mr B had a low level of active debt at the time  certainly in comparison to 
his verified income.
In Moneybarns view, when the amount Mr B already owed plus a reasonable amount for    
Mr Bs living expenses were deducted from his monthly income the monthly payments for 
this agreement were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr B says that these payments were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Mr B and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Im not persuaded that the checks Moneybarn carried out 
did go far enough. For example, Im not persuaded that it was reasonable to rely on an 
estimate of Mr Bs living costs given what Moneybarn saw on its credit checks. And I think 
that this ought to have led Moneybarn to do more to ascertain Mr Bs actual regular living 
costs. That said, I dont think that obtaining further information on Mr Bs actual living costs 
would have made a difference to Moneybarns decision to lend in this instance. 
I say this because having considered the information Mr B has provided on his 
circumstances from the time, when Mr Bs actual living expenses are added to his active 
credit commitments and then deducted from his monthly income he appears to have enough 
left over to repay this agreement. So I think that Moneybarn obtaining further information is 
likely to have led it to conclude that did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably 
make the repayments due under this agreement. 
I know that Mr B was making payments to a debt management company to repay his 
previous debts. But even when these are factored in, Mr B didnt have much in the way of 
active credit. And this low level of active credit does appear to ensure that Mr B is left with 
sufficient funds to be able to make his payments. 
Id also point out that although this in itself is not determinative, Mr B has nonetheless made 
all of the payments due on this agreement so far. And I have to question why he has 
complained so soon after taking the agreement rather than taken any steps to reduce his 
liability  by for example, taking steps to return the vehicle.    
I accept its possible that Mr Bs actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what Ive seen here. But a lender is only able to make a decision based on what it has, 
or at the very least is likely to have. So while I do appreciate that it might be proving more 
difficult for Mr B to make his payments than hed anticipated, the crucial thing here is that I 
dont think that asking for more information would have prevented Moneybarn from lending 
in this instance. 
  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while Im not persuaded that 
Moneybarns checks before entering into this conditional sale agreement with Mr B did go far 
enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have 
stopped Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with him. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr B. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       Mr B. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint, I would remind Moneybarn of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration (bearing in mind what Mr B now says) in the 
event that Mr B is experiencing financial difficulty during the course of it collecting payments 
on the agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman