DRN-2519507
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has turned down a medical expenses 
claim he made on his travel insurance policy.  
What happened
In March 2020, Mr Z took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a price comparison 
website to cover a holiday abroad. Unfortunately, while he was away, Mr Z suffered a stroke. 
So he made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the medical expenses he incurred.
IPA looked into the claim. It asked Mr Zs GP for copies of his medical records. It noted that 
Mr Z had suffered from shoulder pain and had been referred for an ultrasound in April 2019. 
It said that the policy Mr Z took out didnt cover any medical conditions at all. It also said that 
during the online application process, Mr Z had been asked whether hed suffered from any 
medical conditions or had been referred for investigations etc during the past five years. Mr 
Z had answered no. If hed answered yes, IPA said the policy wouldnt have been sold to 
him at all. And it thought hed acted recklessly in answering no to the question. So it turned 
down the claim. 
Mr Z was unhappy with IPAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Zs complaint should be partly upheld. He thought IPA had 
asked a clear question about Mr Zs medical history during the online sales process. And he 
thought Mr Z had answered it incorrectly. He acknowledged that if Mr Z had told IPA about 
his shoulder investigation, it wouldnt have offered him this policy. So he thought it was fair 
for IPA to turn down Mr Zs claim. But he didnt think Mr Z had acted recklessly. He thought 
Mr Z had answered IPAs question carelessly. And in those circumstances, where a careless 
misrepresentation means an insurer would never have offered any cover, the law says it 
must return the premium a policyholders paid for their policy. So the investigator 
recommended that IPA should refund the premium Mr Z had paid for the policy together with 
interest at an annual rate of 8%.
IPA agreed with the investigators assessment. Mr Z initially accepted the suggested 
settlement and we closed our complaint. IPA paid Mr Z a refund of £59.56 for the policy 
premium, together with a flat rate of 8% annual interest of £4.79.
Mr Z was unhappy with the interest amount hed been paid. He said he thought IPA would 
be paying him an interest amount of 8% per day. He felt IPA should pay half of his claim. He 
said the policy was designed to cover unexpected injuries. And he said his stroke abroad 
hadnt been linked to his shoulder pain.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the settlement IPA has paid Mr Z is fair and reasonable and Im not 
telling it to pay him anything more. Ill explain why.
It seems to me that there are two key issues for me to consider. Whether it was fair for IPA 
to treat Mr Zs policy as if itd never existed. And, if so, whether the interest it paid on its 
settlement was fair. 
Did Mr Z make a qualifying misrepresentation when he took out the policy?
When Mr Z took out the policy online, he was asked information about himself and the 
people the policy covered, his trip and about any medical conditions he and the other 
policyholders had. IPA used this information to decide whether or not to insure Mr Z and if 
so, on what terms.
IPA says that Mr Z didnt correctly answer the questions he was asked during the medical 
screening. This means the principles set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant. So I think its fair and reasonable to apply 
these principles to the circumstances of Mr Zs claim. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to correctly answer 
an insurers questions and provides inaccurate information. 
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider 
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. So Ive looked carefully at 
what Mr Z was asked when he took out the policy.
Mr Z bought the policy through a price comparison website. IPA has provided us with some 
screenshots which show what happened at the time of sale. One screen set out a section 
called Personal Details  Eligibility, which asked Mr Z to answer five questions to check 
whether the policy would meet all of the policyholders needs. It also said, towards the top of 
the page: Please answer accurately and honestly. Not doing so could result in the insurer 
refusing a claim or not paying a claim in full.
The fourth question asked Mr Z the following:
Within the last 5 years has anyone you wish to insure on this policy suffered any medical 
condition (medical or psychological disease, sickness, illness or injury) that has required 
prescription medication or treatment including surgery, tests or investigations?
Mr Z had to select either yes or no to each of the five questions to proceed with buying the 
policy. Mr Z answered no.
IPA says that Mr Z shouldve answered yes to this question. So Ive looked carefully at the 
available medical evidence to decide whether I think it was fair for IPA to reach this 
conclusion. Mr Zs GP records show that on 16 April 2019, he saw his GP after suffering 
from shoulder pain for around three months, which hed been treating with painkillers. The 
GP referred Mr Z for an ultrasound scan to investigate the cause. This scan took place on 13 
May 2019. I can see that the scan didnt find anything significant. So I can understand why Mr Z 
mightve thought he didnt have any medical conditions that he needed to tell IPA about. But 
his appointment for shoulder pain took place around 11 months before he took out the 
insurance and he was referred for further investigations into the cause of the pain.  So I think 
its clear this referral did fall within the scope of IPAs question. And considering everything, I 
think IPAs question was clear enough that Mr Z shouldve been prompted to tell it about his 
referral for investigation into his shoulder pain.
This means I think Mr Z did make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. So I think 
IPA is entitled to apply the relevant remedy available to it under the Act. But while it initially 
thought Mr Z had answered its question recklessly, it later accepted that hed made a 
careless mistake. Based on the available medical evidence and the clarity of the question Mr 
Z was asked, I think this was the appropriate conclusion for IPA to reach.
CIDRA says, in cases of careless misrepresentation, if an insurer wouldnt have offered any 
cover at all if itd known all of the relevant information, then its entitled to treat the policy as if 
it never existed. This means turning down any claims and refunding a policyholders 
premium. IPAs told us that if Mr Z had correctly answered its question, hed never have 
been able to go ahead with taking out this policy.  So I think that by refunding Mr Z £59.96 
he paid for the policy; IPA has acted in line with CIDRA. This means Im not directing it to 
pay any of Mr Zs claim.
Has IPA correctly paid interest on the settlement?
I appreciate that Mr Z feels strongly that the £4.79 IPA paid him in interest, on top of his 
refunded premiums isnt enough and that he expected to be paid interest of 8% per day. Our 
interest awards are intended to reflect the period of time that a consumer was out of pocket 
for an amount of money. In this case, I think IPA shouldve refunded Mr Zs premium of 
£59.96 from the start of the policy on 14 March 2020  less than a year ago. So I agree with 
the investigator that a payment representing 8% annual interest on top of that is fair to 
recognise the time Mr Z didnt have access to that £59.96.
8% per interest per day, in my view, isnt a reasonable award to make. It would put Mr Z in 
substantially better financial position than he was in before he took out the policy. 
IPA has shown me how it calculated the interest it paid Mr Z  using a flat rate of 8% on the 
premium amount, even though at the point it was paid, it was only around nine months after 
Mr Z took out the policy. Im satisfied then that it calculated the interest fairly and Im not 
telling it to pay anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that the settlement IPA has now paid 
Mr Z is fair and reasonable.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman