DRN-2458252
The complaint
Mr H complains about what happened after HSBC UK Bank Plc asked for more information
on his business. He said that his account was closed, which he thought was quite 
unreasonable, and he was forced to pay off a debt at very short notice.
  
What happened
Mr H complained that HSBC had closed his business account after it asked him for more
information about his business. He said it did that although hed sent it the information it
asked for, then checked it had everything it wanted. And he said HSBC then started to put
pressure on him to pay back the debt on his business credit card immediately, or it would put
a default on his account. It said hed been missing payments, but Mr H said he hadnt
missed one.
Mr H wanted HSBC to offer him an interest free loan to pay off this debt instead. He wanted 
HSBC to admit its mistake, apologise, and pay compensation.
Mr H then said hed paid the card off, but HSBC was still threatening him with a default,
because it said one of the payments hed made hadnt reached his card. Mr H said that all of
this was very unfair, and he wanted us to help.
HSBC said that it needed Mr H to complete a safeguarding review. It had written to him on 4
September to give 65 days notice of account closure because it hadnt received this
information. HSBC said it also texted Mr H, on 10 July, 2 August, 22 August, 4 October and
31 October.
HSBC said Mr H did complete the online form on 29 September 2019, but some information
was missing. The account was then closed, in line with the notice given.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He set out a timeline of what he
thought had happened, including that Mr H didnt get the first set of Safeguarding forms,
because he hadnt yet updated his address. When he did so, HSBC wrote to Mr H to say
that the deadline for completing the forms was up, and HSBC would close his account if he
didnt get in touch urgently. 
Our investigator said Mr H sent the forms in late September, but gave his new residential 
address. HSBC had only updated Mr Hs business address, so his new residential address 
didnt match the address HSBC held for him on his personal account. HSBC sent Mr H 
instructions to update his information and then resubmit the form. Our investigator said that 
the residential address was updated, but the form wasnt resubmitted. So HSBC closed the 
business account, and issued a default notice for the balance.
Our investigator said he understood Mr H had thought he didnt need to do any more after
updating his address. But our investigator said that HSBC had told Mr H what he needed to
do, and given him a clear warning about what would happen if he didnt. And hed had a long
time to submit his information. So, when Mr H didnt do that, our investigator didnt think
HSBC was wrong to close his account, and didnt think it needed to do any more.
Mr H didnt agree with that. He said we hadnt mentioned the call hed made to HSBC, when
he was told that things were all up to date and he need not worry. He said that HSBC
shouldve changed both his residential and business address when he gave it his new
address, or at least checked this. He thought the problem was caused by HSBCs
administrative system and customer service failings, and he shouldnt have to suffer
because of that. He wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was
passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
Mr H had moved fairly shortly before HSBC started asking him for information about 
his business account. He then updated his business address, but he hadnt updated 
his residential address. I have listened to the call Mr H made to update his address 
on his commercial accounts, and he said hed moved house, not that hed moved 
business premises. He wasnt asked to clarify if his new address was a residential or 
business address.
I know that Mr H wasnt told on this call that updating his business address with 
HSBC wouldnt also update his personal address on his personal accounts. But I also 
note that in the messages Mr H sent before this, he was clear that he was updating 
his address for his business account. And his personal account doesnt show his 
address as updated until October. I think its most likely that Mr H knew he was only 
updating his business account details on this call.
When Mr H completed the form with his business information, the residential address 
he gave wasnt recognised by HSBC. The bank wrote to him and said he needed to 
do two things  he needed to update his residential address, and once hed done 
this, he needed to resubmit his form.
Mr H said that he rang HSBC and updated his residential address. He said he was
reassured on that call that he didnt have to do anything else.
I asked HSBC for this call, so I could listen to it, and it said it didnt have it, although it 
can see that Mr H updated his address on his personal account on 25 October.
Because theres no recording, I cant be sure what was said on this call by HSBCs 
personal banking staff. But we do know that whatever was said on this call, Mr H 
then didnt resubmit his online form, with all the details of his business. HSBCs 
business banking team had written to him and told him it would go ahead with closing 
his account, if he didnt do that. So I dont think HSBC did anything wrong when it 
closed his business account.
Closing Mr Hs business account meant that his business credit card was also 
closed. Thats not an unusual approach for banks to take, and I wouldnt necessarily 
say it was unfair for HSBC to withdraw use of the credit card once Mr Hs business 
current account is closed.
But I think HSBC did make some mistakes in how it closed Mr Hs credit card.
HSBC sent Mr H a default notice on 4 December asking Mr H to clear the full balance 
on his card, and saying that there would be severe consequences if he didnt do so by 25 December. HSBC then sent a final demand on 27 December, which again told 
Mr H he needed to pay the full balance on the card, this time by 14 January. The 
second letter said to ring HSBC to make a payment, but it didnt make clear that if Mr 
H just tried to pay money onto the card, that wouldnt work.
Both of these letters said that Mr H had missed his monthly payments onto his card. 
But HSBC hasnt suggested that Mr H had actually missed any payments before his 
card account was closed. It just says his business card account was closed because 
his business current account was closed.
Mr H complained about this. He said that hed made a payment onto his business 
credit card. In fact, HSBC said that hed made two recent payments, £118.00 on 4 
January, and £243.96 on 14 January. But that apparently hadnt been credited to his 
account. 
Mr H was told that if he wanted to avoid a default, he needed to clear the debt in full. 
He then paid £4,000.00 on 15 January. Mr H has told us that he had to borrow 
money elsewhere to do that.
I dont think HSBC made a mistake when it closed Mr Hs business current account, 
for the reasons Ive explained above.
But I dont think HSBC shouldve taken steps to default Mr Hs credit card debt. I 
think it should have written to him to explain, if it needed to close this card at the 
same time as his business current account, and made an arrangement with him for 
the money to be repaid.
HSBC also should not have written to Mr H to say it was closing his business credit 
card because hed missed payments, when he apparently hadnt done that, and 
HSBC has given us a different explanation for the card account closure.
I think that the letters Mr H received were confusing for Mr H. If he knew he hadnt 
missed any payments, then it would appear to him as if HSBC had just made a 
mistake. By the time he realised HSBC really was going to close his card account 
and wanted him to pay back the whole debt, he was left with very little time indeed to 
avoid a default. And even then, HSBC told him it wouldnt apply a payment hed 
already sent it towards the debt on the card. 
Mr H may always have had to borrow elsewhere to pay off this card. So I dont think 
HSBC needs to pay all the interest Mr H has paid to borrow elsewhere.
But he didnt need to borrow at such short notice. I think that only happened because 
of the mistakes HSBC has made.
I think HSBC has provided Mr H with poor service, and caused him a considerable 
amount of unnecessary stress. I think it should pay Mr H £250 to make up for that.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
HSBC said it accepted my decision. Mr H said he thought I hadnt gone far enough.
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H said that he was pleased Id acknowledged that HSBC did make some mistakes. But 
he didnt think that £250 was enough compensation. 
He said it was infuriating to find he was being blamed for not updating his address. He 
wanted to know how I could say that it was clear he knew he was just changing his business 
address. He said he was clearly giving HSBC a residential address, and the previous 
addresses for his business and home addresses were the same, so he thought that HSBC 
shouldve clarified that. 
I reached the conclusion that it was more likely Mr H knew he was only changing his 
business address, after carefully considering the content and the context of the call he 
made. So I noted that in the messages Mr H sent before his call, he was clear that he was 
updating his address for his business account. That fits with what HSBC told us, that it deals 
separately with business and personal banking. And Ive now listened again to the call that 
Mr H made. I can hear that HSBC told him at the start of the call he was through to its 
business telephone banking. 
I still think its most likely that Mr H knew he was only updating his business account details 
on this call. 
But I also think that isnt the key reason why things went wrong in this case.
Mr H said that his residential address was updated in October, in the phone call that HSBC 
cannot find. Mr H repeated that he was assured on that call that everything was updated and 
he didnt need to worry any more.
Mr H said the issue was he could not understand what information HSBC still needed from 
him. He had completed the form, he had changed his address, and it continued to send 
letters saying he needed to update his information.
I think HSBC did tell Mr H what he needed to do to complete its review of his business 
accounts. He needed to update his residential address, which wasnt done until October. 
Then he needed to resubmit his business information, so it could all be validated. 
The form Mr H completed said this  
HSBC reason for rejection  
Thank you for your response. You have provided us with a home address that does 
not match what we currently hold on our system.
[It then explained to Mr H how he could update his residential address.]
We will then need you to resubmit your online account review form, together with a 
certified document as proof your changed address. Full details on how to correctly 
certify documents can be found by clicking on the appropriate link in the documents 
section of the form.
[This section ended with how to get help from HSBC if he needed that to 
complete the review.]I understand Mr H thinks this is an unnecessarily bureaucratic process, but I do think it was 
explained to Mr H. And I think the key reason why things went wrong in this case, is that Mr 
H didnt do the second part of what HSBC asked, which was to resubmit the form. 
Mr H said this had left him with around £1,000 in interest costs. So he thought that 
compensation of £1,000 to cover the costs was more than fair. He wanted me to look again 
at the timeline, he didnt think it was right that he should be left out of pocket. 
I have reconsidered this complaint. And I still think that the main reason Mr Hs account was 
closed was because he didnt complete the last step in HSBCs process for reviewing his 
business account. I think thats why his account was closed. 
I still think it was always likely Mr H would need to borrow to pay off the debt on his business 
credit card, so I dont think HSBC has to pay that interest for him. 
But I also still think that HSBC made mistakes in the way it closed Mr Hs card. And I still 
think that £250 is the right award to make for that. So Ill now make the award I originally 
proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mr H £250.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman