DRN-2622943
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the advice given to him by Integrity IFA Ltd in relation to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP).
Integrity hasnt engaged with us at any stage in this process  it didnt respond to our 
requests for its file or to our investigators assessment of the complaint. What Ive outlined 
below therefore is based on what Mr E has told us happened and documents hes provided.
What happened
Mr E had a personal pension. In February 2015 he met with one of Integritys advisors, who 
advised him to switch his pension to a SIPP and to invest in a Colonial Capital Housing 
Bond. The necessary forms were completed, the SIPP was set up and funds (just over 
£14,000) from Mr Es existing pension were transferred to it. The SIPP provider later 
arranged for £10,000 to be transferred to Colonial for the investment.
In March 2017 Colonial went into administration. The liquidators report in 2019 said it was 
unlikely that any dividend would be paid to non-preferential unsecured creditors. This meant 
Mr E has effectively lost his entire investment.
In January 2020 Mr E complained to Integrity as he felt the advice he received in 2015 was 
unsuitable. He didnt receive a response from so he referred the matter to us. Our 
investigator concluded that the complaint should be upheld as she thought the advice Mr E 
received was unsuitable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Is Integrity involved and did it advise Mr E?
Because Integrity hasnt engaged in this process I need to reach a conclusion on whether 
Mr E has brought his complaint against the correct financial business and whether that 
business gave him advice in respect of his SIPP.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Integrity was Mr Es financial advisor and that it 
was involved in the sale/arrangement of his SIPP. I say this because:
Mr Es direct testimony  which Integrity hasnt disputed  is that it was
the bond application form and the SIPP application form (both of which were signed by 
Mr E and the advisor) show that the financial advisory firm was Integrity
Integrity sent the relevant information to the SIPP provider in order to set up the SIPP
Integrity invoiced Mr E for the setting up of the SIPP.
Im also satisfied that Integrity most likely advised Mr E to switch his pension and invest in 
the bond. I say this because:
Mr Es direct testimony  which Integrity hasnt disputed  is that it did
a letter to Mr E from the SIPP provider said that prior to Mr E setting up the SIPP, 
Integrity should have provided him with full advice in relation to all aspects of the 
proposed transaction, including the underlying investments.
I therefore conclude on the balance of probabilities that Mr E has brought his complaint 
against the correct financial business (ie Integrity) and that Integrity gave him advice in 
respect of his SIPP.
General
The advice had to take account of the overall investment strategy. This is because the 
regulator said in 2013 that it was incorrect for advisors to be under the impression that they 
didnt need to consider an unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in a SIPP.
The bond Mr E invested in is whats known as an unregulated collective investment scheme 
(UCIS). As the name suggests, the investment isn't regulated or authorised by the 
regulator, so its not subject to the same requirements as a regulated collective scheme. 
Although the investment isnt regulated, we can usually look at this type of complaint as the 
advice to invest was a regulated activity.
Because of the lack of regulation and the type of assets they invest in, UCIS can be complex 
and high risk. The regulator has generally regarded them as having a high degree of 
volatility, illiquidity or both. Theyre therefore usually speculative investments and are rarely 
regarded as suitable for more than a small part of a portfolio. However, a UCIS isn't 
necessarily too high a risk or unsuitable for all investors. However, an investor can lose all of 
their invested capital, and common risks are:
investors have no recourse to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme because 
the investment is unregulated
the investment is often illiquid  which means people can't get their money out
they often have little or no track record
there is often valuation risk ie theres uncertainty about how to value the assets and 
whether valuations are correct.
The most common complaint we see about UCIS concern suitability. When deciding such 
complaints things I consider include:
whether the adviser properly assessed the consumer's attitude to risk (ATR) and 
whether the investment matched this risk profile
the consumer's requirements regarding the term of investment and whether they wanted 
income or capital growth
whether the consumer could afford to lose their money (ie their capacity for loss)
whether the adviser recommended putting "too many eggs in one basket"
whether the adviser explained all the risks
whether the advice caused the loss.Switching pensions
Mr E has told us that his existing pension funds were in cash and he sought advice from 
Integrity on where to invest. He said he doesnt have information on what charges were 
applied to the existing pension.
In 2009 the regulator outlined areas where consumers had lost out following a pension 
switch. These included them being switched to a pension that was more expensive than their 
existing one without good reason (the regulator specifically said such advice was unsuitable) 
and they had switched to a pension that didnt match their recorded ATR and personal 
circumstances.
With the above in mind, in order for a recommendation to switch pensions to be suitable, I 
think an adviser needs to show that they compared the existing pension and the new one; 
and the reasons for switching needed to be sound. The potential for the consumer to be 
better off has to be enough to more than compensate for the risk that they might end up 
worse off. I need to be clear though that an investment not growing as much as had been 
hoped doesnt automatically mean that the recommendation was unsuitable, and its not an 
automatic reason for a complaint to be upheld. I do nevertheless need to be satisfied that the 
investment was suitable for the consumer at the time it was recommended.
I cant compare the charges of the two pensions as the information on the original pension 
isnt available to me  as Mr E hasnt got it and Integrity hasnt provided it. So I cant tell 
whether the charges for the new SIPP (including Integritys charge for setting it up) were 
more expensive than the existing SIPP. But, ultimately, Integrity hasnt shown me that the 
charges Mr E incurred in switching pensions were incurred for good reason. Theres no 
evidence, for example, that Mr E needed the flexibility a SIPP can often provide, access to a 
wider range of funds than his existing pension, or access to benefits by way of income 
drawdown when he retired.
I cant therefore conclude that the advice Integrity gave to Mr E to switch pensions was 
suitable.
Underlying investment
Ive mentioned above that the regulator outlined that consumers had lost out following a 
pension switch because they had switched to a pension that didnt match their ATR and 
circumstances.
So when considering this issue I generally look at whether the recommended investment 
was in line with the consumers ATR and whether the consumer could afford to take that 
amount of risk. Ill also look at any guidance the regulator might have issued.
In 2010, the regulator produced a report titled Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes:
Good and poor practice. In this it gave an example of good practice being an advisor setting 
up a maximum portfolio proportion for UCIS investments of between 3% and 5%. In this 
case Integrity recommended that Mr E invest around 70% of his pension fund into the bond.
From January 2014 the regulator banned the promotion of this type of investment to retail 
consumers. This essentially meant this form of investment could only be promoted to 
sophisticated and high net worth investors. I havent seen any evidence which shows that 
Mr E fell into either of these two categories.So, based on what Ive seen, Integritys advice was in contravention of guidelines/rules set 
out by the regulator. However, that doesnt automatically mean the recommendation was 
unsuitable. I still need to look at Mr Es individual circumstances.
In that regard, two important things for me are Mr Es ATR and his capacity to suffer loss. 
Mr E has told us that his existing pension was his only provision for retirement income (apart 
from, I assume, the State pension). So in my view, he had little capacity to lose it as if it was 
lost he had no other potential retirement income. I havent seen anything about what Mr Es 
ATR was at the time of the advice  Id usually expect to see a completed questionnaire that 
produces a score out of ten. So I cant be sure that the bond didnt fit within his ATR. But as 
Ive said above, this type of investment is high risk and Integrity hasnt provided anything to 
show that Mr E was prepared to take that much risk with his funds.
I therefore conclude that the advice Integrity gave to Mr E to invest in the bond was 
unsuitable.
Summary/conclusion
Overall, I conclude that the advice Integrity gave Mr E was unsuitable. I say this because:
Integrity hasnt shown that the charges Mr E incurred in switching pensions were 
incurred for good reason
the underlying investment advice was contrary to the regulators guidance
the underlying investment was too risky for Mr Es circumstances.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr E as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think Mr E 
would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done, 
but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given his circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr E fairly Integrity should:
1. Compare the performance of his investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If theres a loss, Integrity should pay into Mr Es pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Integrity is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Es pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Es actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate 
of tax. However, if he would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation.2. Provide the details of the calculation to Mr E in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Integrity considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr E how 
much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmark from (start 
date)to (end 
date)interest
Colonial 
bondstill existsfor half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from 
fixed rate
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlementnot 
applicable
The actual value is the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If, at the 
end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market), it 
may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Integrity should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Integrity is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculation. It may wish to require that Mr E provides an undertaking to 
pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan. Integrity will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
The fair value is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate 
bonds as the benchmark, Integrity should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-
rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at 
the end of the previous month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis.
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr E most likely wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital
the average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds; its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return
I consider that Mr Es risk profile was most likely in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives; so, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put him into that position. It doesnt mean that Mr E would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index 
tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects 
the sort of return he could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
ATR.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Integrity IFA Ltd to pay Mr E compensation as outlined 
under the Putting things right heading above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman