DRN-2416045
The complaint
Mr M complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) made errors, caused delays 
and damaged his property through misdiagnosis and poor work following a claim for a water 
leak on his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ms home emergency policy with RSA covered plumbing, electrical and central heating 
problems. On returning home Mr M noticed water leaking through the ceiling light fitting 
below the bathroom. He called RSA and a plumber attended that evening. The plumber 
thought the bath trap might be the issue, dismantled it, then turned the water supply off 
before leaving. Water continued to leak through the ceiling and RSAs contractors attended 
the next day to make the ceiling safe and isolate the electrical supply, whilst it dried out. 
Mr M made multiple calls to RSA and several further visits were made by different 
contractors over the next few weeks. Mr M raised various other issues, including a leak from 
the central heating boiler and repairs were made. Mr M says there were problems organising 
visits which he wanted to be in the evening or at weekends. 
It was identified that a pipe, not the trap was responsible for the leak. This was repaired 
through the ceiling and the water was turned back on, three days after Mr M had first called 
RSA. 
Mr M says the boiler continued to leak, there was a problem with the water supply to two 
basins and a radiator was now leaking. Various attempts were made to resolve these issues, 
but some remained. Mr M says he was without water for several days and electricity for nine 
days as a result of RSAs poor service. He said the bath leaked unless the water was run 
slowly.
Mr M complained to RSA. It accepted there was an initial misdiagnosis and some poor 
service. It paid Mr M £250 in compensation for this. It said the water had to be turned off as 
the isolation valves on the pipe were above the level of the leak. RSA said that water was 
restored within three days and the electricity had only been isolated as necessary for safety 
and drying out. It was fully restored in nine days. 
RSA said it had sent a contractor to check the outstanding issues. These had been resolved 
except for the leaking bath and faulty basin taps, which it said were maintenance related. But 
RSA said as it had done some work on the bath trap, if Mr M obtained his own report 
confirming its work was responsible for any problem it would consider it. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it, but he didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Our investigator said RSA had been advised the outstanding issues were maintenance 
related and so werent covered by the policy. He said it wasnt unreasonable for RSA to rely 
on the opinion of its experts. But it had acted reasonably in saying it would consider 
alternative expert evidence if Mr M provided it. He said the £250 compensation paid for the 
poor service was fair. 
Mr M said RSA had made things worse. He said the contractors had blamed each others 
poor work for the problems. He said he wasnt in a position to pay for an independent report 
as plumbers were asking for £100-200 to come and visit and review the case, and it could 
cost £4,000 to rectify everything.
As Mr M disagrees it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
It is clear from the policy that it covers emergency situations not normal day to day 
maintenance. Mr M says he was inconvenienced by delays in getting appointments for the 
repairs to be completed. But given the aim of the policy I dont think it is unreasonable for 
RSA to say evening and weekend appointments are prioritised for emergency events rather 
than completion of work.
   
RSAs contractors have advised it that the remaining issues are maintenance related. It isnt 
unreasonable for it to rely on this advice in declining to carry out further work as not being 
covered by the policy. And, RSA says it will consider additional evidence about any ongoing 
issues if Mr M provides it. I think this is a fair approach.
RSA accepts Mr M was inconvenienced by the initial misdiagnosis. I think it paid fair 
compensation for this. And RSAs notes say that some of the other work that was completed 
wasnt covered by the policy and was undertaken as a gesture of goodwill. 
I understand Mr Ms concerns about the cost of obtaining a report. But RSA has confirmed 
that it may be possible to reimburse the cost of this report depending upon the outcome. I 
think RSA has treated Mr M fairly and reasonably in respect of these issues and wont be 
asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman