DRN-3660826
The complaint
Miss J complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly declined her 
claim for accidental damage, and classified it as fraudulent. She said this led to her policy 
being unfairly cancelled retrospectively from the date she made the claim. And to her 
outstanding premium being retained. 
What happened
Miss J had buildings and contents insurance with Lloyds. The policy also included accidental 
damage cover.
I understand that an accident occurred on 10 September 2021. Miss J made a claim for 
accidental damage to her living room carpet under the policy on 13 September 2021. During 
the first notification of loss (FNOL) call, Miss J told Lloyds that her cat had knocked over a 
glass of wine when chasing her other cat through the room. She said that when she tried to 
clean the carpet the damage became worse. 
Miss J said she was sitting in the chair in her lounge watching television when her cat ran 
into the room. She provided photos to Lloyds so she could explain the direction the cat was 
running in, and the position of the glass or wine. She said that her cat had startled her and 
this had caused her to knock over her glass of wine. She also provided a photo of the stain, 
showing its position relative to her position and the placement of the wine glass. 
During the FNOL call, Lloyds declined the claim. They said that pet damage wasnt covered 
under the accidental damage section of the policy.
Miss J then told Lloyds that while shed blamed the cat for knocking over the wine glass, the 
cat hadnt actually touched it. Instead, it had startled her and caused her to knock it over.
Lloyds felt that Miss J had changed her story after being told that her claim wasnt covered. I 
understand that on 16 September, Lloyds called Miss J to tell her that they considered that 
her claim was fraudulent as shed changed her story after hearing that pet damage was 
excluded from the policy. On 22 September 2021, they cancelled the policy from 13 
September 2021 under the fraud condition, declined the claim and retained Miss Js 
premium. They also reserved the right to share details of their decision with other relevant 
parties. Lloyds sent an email to Miss J on 23 September 2021 which further explained their 
decision.
Miss J complained to Lloyds. She said that when she realised the significance of blaming the 
cat for the accident, shed corrected this by confirming that the cat had never actually 
touched the wine glass. She said that if shed realised that Lloyds would consider her initial 
summary of the accident as absolute and final, she wouldve broken it down second by 
second instead of just generalising for simplicity. She said thered never been any intention 
to change her story because she wasnt covered. She said the allegation of fraud had made 
her ill with anxiety. She asked Lloyds to remove the cancellation term from the policy and to 
remove her from any fraudulent claim databases that they shared information with. 
Lloyds issued their final response to the complaint on 19 October 2021. They maintained 
that theyd correctly declined the claim. They said that they considered that the act of the cat 
knocking over the glass of wine on the carpet was pet damage, and therefore it couldnt be 
considered under the policy terms and conditions. They said that Miss J had challenged their 
decision during the FNOL call by saying that the damage had actually been caused by her 
attempts to clean the carpet. But that in their view the damage had been caused by the cat 
knocking over the wine. 
Lloyds said that Miss J then said that she couldve just said that shed knocked over the 
wine. They said their agent maintained his decision to decline, and that Miss J had then said 
that shed spilt the wine. They said that due to this change of circumstances, Miss Js claim 
was reviewed. After that review, Lloyds had maintained their claim decision, and decided to 
invoke the fraud condition. They felt that Miss J had changed the circumstances of her claim 
in order to benefit. 
Unhappy with Lloyds decision, Miss J brought her complaint to this service. She said she 
hadnt changed her story during the FNOL call, but had clarified it. She said she hadn't 
initially considered the cause of the accident to be relevant to her claim. And that it was less 
embarrassing to say that the cat had knocked the wine over than herself. She also felt that it 
had been impossible for the cat to have come into contact with the glass given where shed 
been sitting and where the cat had actually run into the room. She provided photos to 
demonstrate her point. And said that if Lloyds had sent a claims assessor to inspect the 
damage it wouldve been clear that she was telling the truth. 
Miss J also said shed never made a claim before. And that she was alarmed that her policy 
had been cancelled retrospectively while she was on holiday. She felt shed been 
unknowingly left without any home insurance. She also felt that her 2020/2021 cover had 
covered pet damage. And said that she hadnt been supplied with a policy booklet when her 
documents had been sent. She felt that Lloyds had hidden the exclusion theyd used to 
decline her claim. 
Miss J also said that the digital copy of the 13 September 2021 FNOL that Lloyds had 
provided her with seemed to have various parts of the conversation missing. She felt that 
around 8 minutes of the call had been deleted.  
Our investigator considered the complaint. But didnt think it should be upheld. She felt that 
Lloyds had followed the terms of the policy and hadnt done anything wrong. She considered 
it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the fraud term to turn down the claim and to 
cancel the policy from when the statement was made.
Miss J didnt agree with our investigator. She said that her cat had never come into direct 
contact with the glass. She said shed blamed the cat through naivety, not in fraud. She said 
that for her, the main focus of the claim was that shed been the one who had ruined the 
carpet with the various products shed tried to use to get rid of the stain. She said that 
although shed no intention of making a claim initially, she decided she would once shed 
made the stain worse. 
Miss J denied that shed changed her story after Lloyds had told her she wasnt covered. 
She said shed simply wanted to provide the extra information shed not thought necessary 
at the start. She felt this had unfairly led to Lloyds wrongly accusing her of fraudulent 
behaviour. She also repeated her concern that the FNOL call had been edited before Lloyds 
had shared it with her. 
Miss J said she couldnt accept that Lloyds had accused her of fraudulent behaviour and put 
her on the Insurance Fraud Register. She felt this was a travesty of justice.  She didnt feel it was fair that Lloyds could tarnish her reputation without her having the opportunity to present 
her evidence. 
Miss J said that she would be happy at this stage if Lloyds removed their claim that her 
policy had been cancelled due to fraudulent behaviour and if they removed her name from 
the Insurance Fraud Register.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Miss Js complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be very disappointing for Miss J. 
Im satisfied that Lloyds acted reasonably when they considered that it was more likely than 
not that Miss J had made a fraudulent claim. Ill explain why.
In declining the claim, Lloyds referred to the policys terms and conditions. Under the What 
we dont cover section of the Accidental damage cover part of the policy it says:
Damage caused by domestic pets.
Based on what Miss J first presented as her claim  that is, that her cat had knocked over 
her wine glass - I consider that Lloyds acted reasonably when they considered that the claim 
fell under this section of the policy and would therefore be excluded. And although I 
acknowledge that Miss J further explained that she felt the real damage to her carpet had 
been caused by her attempts at cleaning it, the initial damage had been reported as caused 
by Miss Js cat. She wouldnt have had to clean her carpet if the cat hadnt knocked the wine 
over. From what Ive seen, I consider that Lloyds fairly excluded Miss Js claim under the 
policy on the basis of her first presentation of the claim, which I consider they were entitled 
to rely on.
Lloyds also referred to the policys terms and conditions when cancelling Miss Js policy. 
Under General conditions, theres a section on fraud. This states: 
Fraud 
The contract between you and us is based on mutual trust and we rely on the honesty of our 
policyholders. If you or anyone acting for you knowingly or recklessly: 
provides information to us that is not true in order to obtain cover or cover at a lower 
premium or on better terms; or 
provides information or documentation to us that is fraudulent or dishonestly 
exaggerates a claim; or 
otherwise acts or behaves fraudulently in relation to your policy; 
then cover under the policy will end from the date of the fraudulent act and we: 
will not pay any part of a fraudulent or exaggerated claim; 
will not pay any claims arising after the date of the fraudulent act; will retain any premium you have paid; 
may recover any payments made to you or on your behalf and any costs and 
expenses incurred in respect of a fraudulent claim, whether these payments were 
made or costs and expenses incurred before or after the fraudulent act; 
may recover any payments made to you or on your behalf for any other claims 
arising after the fraudulent act. 
Its important to explain that my role isnt to decide whether Miss J acted fraudulently. But it 
is for me to decide if Lloyds decision to invoke the fraud condition in this case was 
reasonable, based on the information they had at the time.
In order for an insurer to fairly invoke the fraud condition in an insurance policy, the insurer 
needs to show it is more likely than not that the condition was breached. Having reviewed 
the information provided, Im satisfied Lloyds conducted a fair and reasonable review of the 
claim and didnt act unreasonably in saying the fraud condition was breached in light of the 
evidence they received. 
Lloyds said that Miss Js policy excluded pet damage under the accidental damage cover.  
And that when they declined the claim on that basis during the FNOL call, Miss J had 
changed the presentation of her loss. And that this was motivated by the advice that damage 
caused by pets wasnt covered. They said that theyd reached this decision on the balance 
of probability. They said that there was no physical way of establishing the exact event and 
so they looked at what was most likely. They felt that it was most likely that Miss Js first 
presentation of loss reflected what had actually happened. They said this was because at 
that point she had no reason to give a false statement. And that shed also just listened to a 
message which had pointed out the importance of giving accurate information, and the 
consequence of failing to do so. 
Miss J provided photos which she felt supported her claim to Aviva. She felt that these 
showed that at no stage could her cat have come into contact with the wine. 
Lloyds said that Miss Js written explanation and photos had been noted, but they hadnt 
been persuaded that shed tried to simplify matters when she first registered her claim. They 
also said theyd never asked her to do that. They said that the photos didnt prove what had 
actually happened. They felt that if she had spilt the wine herself as she now claimed, she 
wouldve told them that as soon as theyd declined her claim under the pets exclusion. 
They also felt that Miss J had indicated that she couldve lied and told them that shed 
knocked the wine over herself. After reviewing the FNOL call, Lloyds felt that it was more 
likely that Miss J had introduced new information because shed been disappointed that her 
policy didnt offer the cover she expected. 
Ive carefully considered what both parties have said and the evidence provided, including 
the FNOL call recording. Based on what Ive seen, Ive found no evidence that Lloyds have 
done anything wrong. I say this because Im satisfied that theyve correctly applied the policy 
terms and conditions. And I satisfied that they acted reasonably when they considered, on 
balance of probability, that Miss J had changed the presentation of her loss in order to make 
her claim successful. I have considered Miss Js version of events and the photos she 
provided. And while Im grateful that she shared these, I cant reasonably say that they are 
proof of what actually happened. 
Lloyds told Miss J on 22 September 2021 that theyd decided to cancel her policy 
retrospectively from 13 September 2021, the date shed made the claim. They said this was 
correct process and that it was outlined in her policy booklet. They also said that they wouldnt provide cover or pay any claims after the date they considered the fraudulent act to 
have taken place. Lloyds also said that they had to follow the correct procedures and 
therefore they reserved the right to share details of their decision with relevant third parties 
for risk assessment, fraud detection and fraud prevention purposes. 
I acknowledge that Miss J is unhappy that Lloyds were able to invoke the fraud condition 
under her policy without her feeling that shed been able to present her side of the story. But 
I consider that Lloyds have taken reasonable steps to consider the photos and the additional 
explanations shes provided. 
Miss J said that she didnt think it was fair that Lloyds were allowed to cancel her policy 
retrospectively, leaving her with no home insurance cover for a period while she was on 
holiday. She said shed suffered serious consequences after Lloyds decision to invoke the 
fraud clause. And that shed had severe anxiety and sleeplessness since then. Ive very 
sorry thats happened. 
I agree that something couldve happened to Miss Js property while she was on holiday, 
and she wouldnt have been covered under her Lloyds policy. But, from what Ive seen, once 
Lloyds had invoked the fraud condition  which, as I explained earlier, I consider they fairly 
did  there were certain steps they had to take under the policy terms and conditions. So it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to say that they shouldnt have taken those steps. 
Miss J told this service that the FNOL call transcript Lloyds had shared with her was 
incomplete. She also said that some information about the photos she sent in hadnt been 
included in the transcript. And when Lloyds provided Miss J with a digital copy of the FNOL 
call, she said it was very clear that the tape had been cleaned up. She wanted to know what 
had happened to the missing dialogue and why Lloyds had felt the need to remove it. 
Ive listened to the call in question. And Ive no reason to suspect that it has been edited to 
portray a different version of events. Therefore I dont consider that it unfairly reflects what 
happened. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Miss J. But I cant uphold her complaint. Im 
satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to have declined her claim and applied the 
fraud condition. And I consider that Lloyds acted fairly when they cancelled Miss Js policy 
without returning her premiums. And added her details to the fraud register database. 
My final decision
For the reasons described above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman