DRN-4326406
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Tesco Underwriting Limited. He isnt happy about the way it 
dealt with a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Tesco includes its agents.
What happened
Mr A advanced a claim through his insurance policy and it was initially thought his car was 
repairable before Tesco eventually decided after a number of months that the car was a 
write off. Tesco eventually provided Mr A with a courtesy car as it thought Mr As car was 
repairable initially, but Mr A had to hire a car during the first few weeks of the claim as he 
wasnt provided with a courtesy car. As Mr A wasnt happy with the delay in dealing with his 
claim, the lack of updates and the fact he had to pay for a hire car he complained to Tesco.
Tesco looked into things for him and acknowledged that it didnt deal with his claim very well 
and it delayed matters. It offered to pay Mr A £10 a day loss of use payment for the time Mr 
A was without a courtesy car (£180) and £100 compensation for the delay and poor service. 
But Mr A remained unhappy, so he complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A and upheld his complaint. She thought Tescos 
offer of £100 compensation in acknowledgement of the poor service and delay was fair. But 
she thought it should pay all of Mr As initial hire car costs (£699.10) as he was left without a 
car when he should have been provided with one and needed to stay mobile for his family, 
work, and accessibility needs. 
As Tesco didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Tesco, but Ill explain why.
Tesco has explained that it was uncertain whether Mr As car was repairable or not and said 
Mr A didnt say that he had hired a car until a few months into the claim. While I accept it 
wasnt clear whether the car was repairable or not initially it was decided that it was during 
the early stage of the claim (although this position changed) and so Mr A should have been 
provided with a courtesy car. Im surprised it took so long to establish if his car was 
repairable or not, but this wasnt Mr As fault. And as Tesco has accepted that he should 
have been provided with a car by offering loss of use for the days Mr A was without a vehicle 
the only thing left to consider here is whether it should pay Mr As hire vehicle costs as 
opposed to £10 a day loss of use. 
I understand Tesco has said it wasnt aware Mr A was in hire but its notes from early on in 
the claim make it clear that it was aware Mr A had hired a vehicle. And Tesco should have 
reached out to Mr A at this stage about his needs as opposed to just leaving matters. As 
Tesco was aware that Mr A was in hire I think it was its responsibility to ensure he had a 
courtesy car at this point as opposed to Mr As responsibility to chase the position.
Mr A was simply trying to stay mobile in order to manage his daily life at the time of claim 
and he hired a small car in order to do this which doesnt seem unreasonable or excessive. 
Had Tesco have reached out to him and ensured he got a courtesy car earlier he wouldnt 
have had to do this or only had to do it for a very short period. And by hiring a car Mr A was 
able to stay mobile and get to work without incurring other transport costs which I would 
have expected Tesco to pay alongside loss of use if he hadnt hired a car. 
Finally, the service Tesco has provided here was poor which it accepts. Mr A had to chase 
for updates and didnt know where his car was stored or what was happening to it at times. 
And it must have been frustrating for him to have to wait nearly four months not knowing 
where his car was and believing it was going to be repaired only to be told it was a write off. 
Ive considered uplifting the compensation level Tesco offered here (£100) because of the 
various difficulties Mr A faced but I think £100 is fair when considered alongside the £699.10 
hire car costs Im asking Tesco to pay. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco 
Underwriting Limited to pay Mr As hire car costs (£699.10) plus £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman