DRN-1515294
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited mis-sold her a 
mortgage endowment policy for the repayment of her mortgage. 
What happened
In 1990, Mrs B received advice to take an endowment policy for the repayment of a 
mortgage, although she didnt have a mortgage at the time. The policy was set up with a 
sum assured of £19,000. In 1992 Mrs B used the policy towards the repayment of a 
mortgage. The sum assured was increased to £47,452 and another party was added as a 
life assured (not a joint policy holder). 
Mrs B stopped paying premiums into the policy in April 1998 when she repaid her mortgage, 
and she later surrendered it in September 1998. 
Mrs B complained about the sale of this, and several other policies, in 2019. Sun Life upheld 
her complaint about the sale of this policy and carried out a comparison with a repayment 
mortgage. It also refunded the premiums and added interest for the period Mrs B had been 
forward sold the policy. But Mrs B didnt think the calculation was right as she believed the 
refund of premiums and the comparison calculation ought to be separate. And she believed 
the surrender value had been deducted twice. 
Our investigator was satisfied the calculation was a fair resolution to the complaint. Although 
Mrs B wasnt entirely happy with the outcome, she was willing to accept it. But when she 
tried to accept the compensation and asked for Sun Life to add interest to date it refused. 
Mrs B explained she hadnt been able to accept the offer earlier and refer the matter here. 
Our investigator told Sun Life our approach is that interest is calculated until the date of 
settlement, but it disagreed as it says it never adds interest once an offer is made. So the 
matter has been referred to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sun Life has already agreed the policy sold wasnt suitable for Mrs B and so I dont need to 
make a finding about that.  The only thing left for me to consider is whether the offer of 
compensation is fair and reasonable. 
I know Mrs B was willing to accept the offer. But I would like to take this opportunity to put 
her mind at rest about the calculation carried out. Having considered it very carefully, it is in-
line with the regulators and our approach for mis-sold mortgage endowment policies. 
Sun Life has refunded the premiums for the period of time that Mrs B didnt have a 
mortgage. This is what Id expect it to do, particularly as there doesnt appear to have been a 
need for life cover at that time. And as the policy was sold in 1990, I would expect interest to 
be added to each of those premiums at 15% simple from the date of sale to 1 April 1993 and then 8% simple until the date of settlement. Having seen the calculation Im satisfied Sun 
Life did this to the point of calculation. 
Sun Life then needed to carry out a comparison with a repayment mortgage from 1992, 
when Mrs B increased the sum assured and started to use the policy in support of a 
mortgage. She stopped using the policy and stopped paying premiums in April 1998. The 
calculation shows Sun Life has done this comparison. 
Its right for the loss from the first calculation and the loss from the second part of the 
calculation to be added together to establish the full loss that Mrs B suffered. It is also fair for 
the surrender value that Mrs B received to be deducted from that total loss.  Thats because 
she actually received the surrender value in September 1998 and so is money she has had 
as a result of having the policy. There is nothing within the final response letter or the 
calculation that evidences this has been deducted twice, as Mrs B has argued. The 
surrender value was only deducted at the end of the calculation to establish the extent of 
loss suffered. 
Mrs B has argued that it has been used twice as there could be a situation where the 
surrender value is so high there is a deficit. That is sometimes the case. A policy could have 
performed so well, that even though it was mis-sold a policy holder hadnt suffered a 
financial loss  the value of the policy was higher than the amount a repayment mortgage 
would have reduced by and cost. This isnt an unusual situation and has happened on many 
occasions. 
Mrs B has also argued about the inclusion of life cover, particularly as she joined the police 
force in 1995 and had life cover as a benefit of work. But Mrs B took out her mortgage in 
1992, before she joined the force. Not only that, she also added another party as a life 
assured. It is rarely bad advice to protect a mortgage with life cover. And it isnt necessarily 
bad advice to have life cover even if there is a benefit provided through work. Thats 
because the benefit isnt guaranteed to remain a benefit or the person remain in that place of 
employment, and the life cover is often used for other purposes such as other debts or 
replacing a deceaseds income. So Im satisfied it was fair for Sun Life to include the cost of 
life cover for the duration of the mortgage in its calculation. 
Finally, Sun Life has added interest to Mrs Bs overall loss from 1998 to the date of the 
calculation. Im satisfied the approach it has taken to calculating Mrs Bs loss is fair and 
reasonable. That said, it has always been our approach that these calculations should be 
carried out until the date of settlement, not the date of offer. This has been our approach for 
many years, so Im surprised Sun Life doesnt appear to be aware of it. Had it not wanted to 
update interest or the calculation it was open to it to allow Mrs B to accept the compensation 
offered and also refer the matter here.  
Putting things right
I require Sun Life to pay Mrs B the compensation it has calculated as her loss, once it has 
updated that calculation so that all interest elements are calculated to the date of 
settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited to pay Mrs B compensation in accordance with what I have set out 
above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman