DRN-2347813
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint about Al Rayan Bank PLC (ARB) relates to the service he received when 
trying to open a bank account for his son.
What happened
Mr K rang ARB in January regarding the opening of a bank account for his son. He had 
previously opened accounts for his other children. He thought the agent he spoke to was 
rude and unhelpful. 
ARB said it could not accept as proof of his identity an expired passport and that a current 
passport would be required if that was the type of document Mr K wanted to use. Mr K said 
he also sent a council tax bill (CTB) to ARB in January but ARB said it never received it, and 
that was why the account was never set up. 
Mr K feels ARB ought to have contacted him when the CTB didnt arrive, but ARB feel that it 
is not its responsibility to constantly monitor Mr Ks profile for receipt of documents. Mr K 
wanted to send his CTB by email which ARB wouldnt accept, instead asking for it to be 
posted. ARB have offered to send Mr K a prepaid envelope or reimburse any recorded 
delivery costs to facilitate him sending in his documents.
ARB did not accept it had done anything wrong, stating it had followed its procedures and 
policies, and it did not accept its agent had been rude or unhelpful.
Mr K was unhappy with ARBs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that ARB hadnt done anything 
wrong and had dealt with Mr Ks application in accordance with its procedures. He also did 
not think the agent had been rude or unhelpful.
Mr K didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two aspects to this complaint; the issue of documentation and the issue of the 
agent being rude and unhelpful.
At the outset I feel I should clarify that any overall concerns about business process would 
need to be raised with The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They take a principles-based 
approach to conduct regulation, letting businesses choose how they incorporate those 
principles into the way they deal with customers. This is reflected in the remit the FCA has 
given this service under the Dispute Rules in the FCA Handbook. I dont have the power to 
direct that ARB should change its policies, and I can only look to see if it followed its rules 
and procedures in this case and is therefore applying them fairly to all customers. 
ARBs process for opening an account for Mr Ks son is set out in its Terms and Conditions 
and its Proof of Identity booklet. This policy and procedure applies to everyone seeking to 
open an account with ARB. I understand from the correspondence I have seen that 
historically this procedure may have been different, but I am satisfied that the procedure at 
the time Mr K made his request, was that contained in the above documents. It is therefore 
that procedure which is relevant.
So, looking at it I can see that an applicant is required to prove their identity and address. It 
is also clear that an expired passport is not considered to be a suitable document and that a 
current passport will be required. So, I cant criticise ARB for not accepting Mr Ks expired 
passport. 
Mr K said he sent his CTB to ARB in January and I have no reason to doubt him. ARB said it 
never received it and equally I have no reason to doubt it either. Sadly, documentation does 
go astray in the post. The issue therefore shifts as to whether it was ARBs responsibility to 
constantly monitor Mr Ks profile and I dont think that it is. Having submitted the CTB Mr K 
would naturally have been waiting for the account to be opened and when it was not, it is 
reasonable to have expected him to make an enquiry. But I note he did not make any further 
contact until September, some 8 months later. I think that if the agent had specifically said 
that she would take some proactive action in relation to checking for the receipt of the CTB, 
then that would present as a different situation, but having listened to the call I can confirm 
that she did not.
Mr K wished to send his CTB by email, but once again this does not accord with ARBs 
policy which requires it to be posted. ARB offered to send a prepaid envelope and even pay 
for recorded delivery postage, which I think is very fair and reasonable. I do understand Mr 
Ks reticence in sending his CTB again through the post, but that does not mean ARB should 
accept an email copy. 
Turning to the second aspect of Mr Ks complaint. Ive also listened with some care to the 
telephone call in January, and I appreciate Mr K feels the agent was rude and unhelpful, but 
I dont agree. There wasnt anything in the call which I consider rude. The agent calmly 
explained the procedure and what was required. She didnt raise her voice and nor was she 
critical or in any other way offensive. I can appreciate that from Mr Ks perspective he feels 
she was unhelpful, but in fact she was actually just relaying ARBs policy and procedure. 
And that was something she was required to do.
 
So, although Mr K will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say ARB has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman