DRN-2962704
The complaint
 Mrs B and Mr B complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wouldnt close their joint
account.
What happened
 Mrs B and Mr B had three accounts with Santander. There were two accounts in the name 
of Mr B and one joint account. All were dormant and had had no transactions for several 
years. So  Santander blocked them. Mr B visited a branch of Santander in November 2020 
to close the accounts. The two accounts in the name of Mr B were closed and cheques for 
the balances sent to his home address. Santander wrote to Mrs B and Mr B on 4 November
2020 and asked for several items of ID and address verification  before the joint account
could be closed. On 17 November 2020, Mrs B and Mr B sent to Santander various
documents, but these werent accepted by the bank.
Mrs B and Mr B complained that this was inconvenient and disproportionate  as the
balance on the account was only £48. Mrs Bs ID and address verification wasnt readily
available. And the branch had told them the joint account would be closed (like Mr Bs sole
accounts). And  why was more documentation needed for Mr B when Santander had
accepted his documents when he visited the branch  to close his own accounts?
Santander said theyd acted in line with their processes to unblock and close a dormant
account. These were that both Mrs B and Mr B would need to provide proof of ID and
address  and the documents theyd then provided didnt meet their requirements.
Mrs B and Mr B brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said that Santander had
acted in line with their processes for unblocking and then closing dormant accounts. He
could see that the forms of ID and address verification that theyd provided didnt meet what
Santanders wanted. And, he said that this service wont interfere with their commercial
processes.
Mrs B and Mr B asked that their complaint be looked at by an ombudsman. 
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Ive thought a lot about Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint. They clearly feel that Santanders 
processes are disproportionate when compared to the balance on their joint account - £48. 
But our investigator is right  we are not going to interfere with their business practices  
thats not our role. This service exists to resolve individual disputes between customers and 
financial businesses  and thats how Im going to look at Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint. In 
that respect, as I see it - the crux of Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint is what happened when 
they visited the branch in November 2020  and what they were then told. Because I think 
everything flows from that. And here, I am going to disagree with the outcome reached by 
our investigator.
All banks  including Santander  have established processes in place when accounts fall 
dormant and customers then wish to close them  as was the case here. Its a fact that 
when this happens, theres a higher risk of accounts being the subject of financial crime  
thats not a comment on Mrs B or Mr Bs character - as the account is more vulnerable to 
being used without their knowledge. So thats why these processes are in place. And, as 
Ive said, Im not going to interfere with those.
Mrs B and Mr B went to Santanders branch in November 2020 to close three accounts. 
Two were in Mr Bs name and there was also a joint account. Santander accepted the 
forms of ID and proof of address for Mr B and sent him cheques to close the two account 
in his name. Mr B argued that the branch staff said the joint account would also be closed 
in the same way. We asked Santander more questions about what happened at the 
branch. They couldnt be specific about exactly what was said  as the member of staff 
has left the bank. But they think that she didnt follow the dormancy processes properly  
and therefore closed the two accounts in Mr Bs name without properly following these. 
And  it looks like it the dormant block on the joint account was only noticed later  and it 
was then that Santander asked for more documentation. So  Santander didnt follow their 
own processes here.
We dont know exactly what was said by the staff member either. But Mrs B and Mr B 
have argued consistently and strongly that Mr B was told that the joint account would also 
be closed, and a cheque sent out. I must make a judgement here based on the probability 
of what I think was said. Given the likelihood that Santanders processes werent followed, 
I can quite see that Mr B was told this  and Im persuaded that was indeed the case.
And  as I see it  everything flowed from there. Santander then asked for forms of ID and 
proof of address from both Mrs B and Mr B. Mr B asked why that was the case  when 
theyd already accepted his in the branch. And  when Mrs B and Mr B sent in their 
documents  they were deemed to be not acceptable to Santander  but by then, they 
were already feeling let down and unfairly treated. So, on that basis, I am upholding Mrs B 
and Mr Bs complaint  for the wrong information they were given in the branch.
As I said, Im not going to interfere in Santanders commercial processes  and if Mrs B 
and Mr B wish to close the joint account, they are going to have to provide the documents 
that Santander want. These are set out in Santanders letter dated 4 November 2020. I 
think it would be helpful if Santander were to send a copy of this letter to them again. I 
hope Mrs B and Mr B will now feel able to engage with Santander and bring things to a 
satisfactory close.
So  my provisional decision, subject to any comments that either Mrs B and Mr B, or 
Santander may have, is to uphold this complaint  based on what I think they were told in 
the branch. And Santander must pay compensation of £150 to them for the distress and
inconvenience which resulted from that.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Santander accepted my findings. Mrs B and Mr B made no comments.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As Santander accepted my findings, and Mrs B and Mr B had no comments, I wont be 
departing from what I said in my provisional decision and for the reasons I gave in it. So, my 
final decision is that Santander should do what I suggested.
My final decision
 My final decision is to uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc must 
Pay compensation of £150 to Mrs B and Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman