DRN-3717962
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc and its agent solicitors caused delays in
their application to remortgage their new home. They had bought on bridging finance, and 
told us these delays cost them a significant amount of money in additional interest.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr and Mrs B, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have been with Mr B. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
Mr B bought a property in late November 2021. He paid with a bridging loan, which charged
monthly interest of around £2,500, payable on the 23rd of each month. He wanted to
refinance as quickly as possible. Mr B planned to take out a new residential mortgage with
HSBC.
Mr B said his broker put the mortgage application in to HSBC promptly, on 26 November,
and stressed then how urgent this all was. But the mortgage didnt complete until 25
February, so Mr B had to pay three months of interest charges. Mr B said this was a
straightforward transaction, and he pointed out he had replied same-day to all of HSBCs
lawyers enquiries. So he couldnt see any reason why this shouldnt have completed before
23 January, saving him two months of interest payments, or around £5,000.
Mr B said he realised at the end of December that his ownership of the property hadnt yet
been registered by the Land Registry. He wanted to expedite this, so he asked HSBCs
lawyers to write him a letter confirming his mortgage application couldnt be progressed until
he and Mrs B were shown on the Registry as the legal owners of the property. But he said
the lawyers failed to process this until late January. Once he got that letter, the Land
Registry updated its records the very next day.
Mr B said this was just one of many examples of delays caused by HSBCs lawyers. He
wanted HSBC to pay back the additional costs he had incurred in monthly interest on his
bridging loan. He thought HSBC should pay at least one month of interest, probably two.
HSBC said the lawyers Mr B had been speaking to acted for it, and it was responsible for
what that firm did. But HSBC didnt agree it should cover any of Mr and Mrs Bs interest
payments on their bridging loan. It said Mr B applied for this remortgage before he was
registered as the legal owner of the property. It thought Mr B shouldnt have made this
application before he and Mrs B were the title holders for the property.
HSBC said its lawyers arent permitted to write in support of a request to expedite the work
of the Land Registry. The firm works for HSBC, not for Mr B. But this letter was later sent,
because its lawyers had agreed, in error, to supply it.
HSBC said on 28 January the lawyers asked Mr B for documents and information on the
shortfall in Mr Bs mortgage  how he was going to clear the rest of the debt. On 14 February
it realised it hadnt asked Mr B for information about why the property had changed hands
within the last six months. HSBC accepted its lawyers should have asked about this earlier,
but it said Mr B replied to this request the same day, and it then expedited its consideration
of Mr Bs completed application.
A new redemption statement was requested from the bridging loan firm, and received on 18
February, whilst HSBC was considering Mr Bs completed and finalised application. HSBC
said it was then able to complete on 25 February.
HSBC didnt accept the delay in referring to it caused completion to be delayed, as action
was still being carried out simultaneously by its lawyers while it was considering Mr Bs
application. It thought its lawyers did follow the correct process and progressed within
timescales set. Completion was set at the earliest working day possible. But HSBC said the
communications from its lawyers could have been clearer, so it paid Mr and Mrs B £350 to
make up for that.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said the time this mortgage
had taken to complete was in line with his expectations. And he didnt think this was a
straightforward transaction, because of the short turnaround. He set out a timeline, and said
that a big part of the delay was due to the Land Registry still showing the previous owner.
This wasnt HSBCs lawyers fault.
Our investigator said he felt the payment of £350 offered by HSBC for poor communications
was very generous, so he wouldnt ask HSBC to do more than that.
Mr B said he was very disappointed, and he felt that our investigator had been influenced by
his apparent expectation of how long a remortgage should take. Mr B sent us evidence that
the Land Registry was updated on 25 January, and showed us communications with the
solicitor who worked on this purchase for him. He compared this unfavourably with the
lawyers appointed by HSBC, who he said he always had to chase.
Mr B wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it came to me for a final
decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Before I start to look at the issues here, Id like to clarify what I think its appropriate for 
our service to consider, and what falls outside of the scope of our service.
This service provides an alternative dispute resolution process for financial services. So 
the rules governing our service allow us to look at what HSBC did here.
HSBC has appointed lawyers, which carried out much of the work on this application 
and did the majority of the liaison with Mr B. HSBC says its responsible for what those 
lawyers did, and those lawyers didnt work for Mr B at all.
So, for example, when Mr B said that one of the key delays was because HSBCs 
lawyers wouldnt provide a letter for the Land Registry, HSBC just said they didnt have 
to. They dont work for Mr B.
But thats not always the case. Sometimes, when people remortgage, and they use the 
banks law firm, that firm is working both for the bank, and for the banks customer. And 
if thats the case here, then Mr and Mrs B may be able to complain about what HSBCs 
law firm did when it was working for them.I dont think its appropriate for me to reach a decision here on whether this law firm was 
working solely and exclusively for HSBC, or whether it was also carrying out work for Mr 
and Mrs B, or indeed otherwise owed them any duty of care.
Thats for two reasons. One is because I simply dont have any documentation to tell me 
who this legal firm was working for. But the other, more important, reason, is because 
its not the role of our service to investigate when things go wrong with a legal firm thats 
working directly for a complainant. So, even if I thought that the legal firm was working 
for Mr and Mrs B too, that doesnt mean the appropriate complaint body would agree 
with me, and its that bodys decision which counts on that.
So Mr and Mrs B might want to ask a different service which does look into these 
issues, whether it can consider a complaint about what HSBCs legal firm did.
Once we set aside whether HSBCs legal firm was also working for Mr and Mrs B, and 
focus on what our service can consider - what HSBC did in this case - then I dont think 
this complaint should be upheld. I know that Mr and Mrs B wanted this remortgage to 
happen much faster, but Land Registry records werent updated until 25 January. HSBC 
completed the remortgage a month later. I dont think that is an unfair or unreasonable 
timescale for this work. And I havent seen anything to suggest to me that HSBC had 
promised Mr and Mrs B that their remortgage could be done faster than that.
I understand why Mr and Mrs B were so disappointed and upset about the time this 
took. They were being charged interest for their bridging loan on a monthly basis, not 
daily. So Mr and Mrs B had to pay just over £2,500 in additional interest on 23 February. 
And they would also have had to start paying interest on their HSBC mortgage, at just 
over £1,650 per month, from 25 February. So they ended up paying interest to both 
HSBC and to the bridging loan firm for this month. Mr and Mrs B may in fact have 
benefitted from delaying completion until just before 23 March. But I cant see that they 
asked for this, and I dont think HSBC had to suggest it.
I know that Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed, but I dont think HSBC has to contribute 
towards the additional interest that they paid. HSBC has paid them £350 for 
communications failures by its legal firm, when it was acting for HSBC. I dont think 
HSBC has to do more than that. And that means this complaint wont be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC replied to say it had nothing to add.
Mr B replied, to say that as hed understood it, I was saying I couldnt adjudicate on the 
actions of the legal firm involved in this case, and whether they represented him as well as 
HSBC. I understand that he intends to pursue the issue of whether he can complain about 
this firm, elsewhere. He said that if we were distinguishing between the actions of HSBC and 
the legal firm, then he was comfortable with the findings.
I would only clarify one point. It does seem to me that, for at least some of the time, the legal 
firm involved in this case was most likely to have been acting for HSBC. And when HSBC instructs an agent to act for it, thats not clearly outside of our services jurisdiction. But I 
havent identified failings there that I think require HSBC to offer a remedy, in order to 
provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. However, its not for me to make 
any decision on whether that legal firm also acted for Mr B, and if so, whether it ought to be 
criticised for the actions it took. That is outside of our jurisdiction, and I must leave that to a 
different service to decide. 
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman