DRN-1317689
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 2007. Mr T says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold the PPI.
What happened
Mr T says it was not made clear the policy was optional; he was given insufficient 
information; the terms and conditions were not explained; he was self-employed so he 
couldnt claim; he had savings and other policies, so he didnt need the PPI. 
Our adjudicator rejected his complaint. Mr T disagreed with our adjudicator's view and 
asked for the matter to be looked at again.
I have not used Mr Ts correct title so he will not be identified.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
Ive decided Mr T's policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will disappoint him, so I'll explain why.
I think HSBC made it clear that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI because, based on 
knowledge of HSBCs various sales processes at that time, I think it most likely that he was 
asked to sign separately for PPI and so he probably chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he may not remember this. Also, HSBC says it first issued a credit card to 
Mr T in 2002, but the PPI was bought much later in 2007. So I think it was probably clear 
enough that PPI was a separate and optional product.
Mr T says the sale was advised, but he also says he bought the PPI on the internet. If he 
did buy it over the internet, then the sale could not have been advised as it was unlikely 
he would have spoken to any HSBC staff. So as neither party can be clear if the sale was 
advised or not, I will assume it was an advised sale as this carries a higher evidential 
burden for HSBC to prove.
For advised sales, HSBC had to check that the PPI was suitable for Mr T and, based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. I say this because he 
was eligible to buy PPI, the policy was affordable, and he wasnt affected by the main 
things the policy did not cover. For example, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.
Also for advised sales, HSBC should have provided Mr T with enough information to let him 
make an informed choice about whether to buy the insurance. Its possible the information 
HSBC gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it could have been. But having decided Mr 
T most likely chose to take it out - it looks like he wanted this type of cover. I also think it 
seems it would have been useful for him if something went wrong and it looked like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off from 
taking out the cover.
I note Mr T said he was self-employed at the time of the sale, but the policy terms were 
not onerous for self-employed individuals, so I will not be upholding the complaint for 
this reason.
Mr T told us he had savings, so he didnt need the PPI. But as the PPI could cover him 
for 12 months, I dont think his savings made the policy unsuitable as the PPI could last 
for longer than and in addition to his savings. I think he might still have had a need for the 
cover, so the level of his savings in 2007 doesnt change my decision.
Mr T also said he had other insurance policies. But it looks like they were providing some 
additional and different benefits, so I dont think his other policies made the PPI 
unsuitable for him.
However, HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr T about that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mr T, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said - including what he has said about being self-
employed, having enough savings and other insurance cover. But these points dont change 
my decision, so I am not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr T. 
But HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman