DRN-3975395
The complaint
Mr S complains that Haven hasnt settled his claim on his car insurance policy fairly, wont
pay his garages fees for storing his car and has given him poor service.
What happened
Both Mr S and Haven are familiar with the detailed sequence of events that led to Mr Ss
complaint, so Ill only refer to what I think are the more significant ones here.
On 29 October 2021, Mr S was in an accident in his car that involved a third party, so he
notified Haven. Records Haven has given us say, at this point, Mr S didnt want to claim on
his car insurance policy for the damage to his car but did want to claim for the personal
injuries he and his passenger had suffered.
On 24 November 2021, Havens records say it got an email from the third partys insurer to
say it would deal with Mr Ss claim as RTA insurers on a without prejudice basis.
On 31 December 2021, following a review of Mr Ss file, Havens records show it closed his
claim.
On 19 January 2022, Havens records say Mr S phoned to chase for an update on his claim.
Havens records say it reopened the claim and sent Mr S a copy of the email from the third-
party insurer, so he could pursue his claim for the damage to his car directly with it.
On 20 January 2022, Havens records say Mr S phoned to say the third-party insurer wasnt
accepting his calls, so he wanted to claim from Haven for the car damage. For a few days, it
seems Haven wasnt clear Mr S had given it this instruction and was under the
misapprehension that Mr S was still dealing with the third-party insurer.
But on 25 January 2022, Havens records say Mr S confirmed he wanted to claim on his
policy for the car damage. On the same day, the garage at which Mr Ss car had been stored
since the accident said it was a total loss.
Haven subsequently valued Mr Ss car at £955 and instructed its agent to collect the car
from Mr Ss garage for salvage. But I understand Mr Ss garage wouldnt release the car until
its storage fees, which had accrued from the time of the accident, were paid.
Mr S complained to Haven about this but Haven didnt uphold his complaint. It said it would
only pay the garages storage fees from 25 January 2022 (when it says Mr S decided to
claim on his policy) until 24 February 2022 (when it says its agent had been scheduled to
collect it).
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr S brought his complaint to us. He also complained about
Havens valuation of his car and the service hed had from Haven.
The investigator who looked at Mr Ss complaint upheld part of it. She didnt think Havens
valuation of Mr Ss car was fair and reasonable or in line with Mr Ss policy terms and
recommended increasing it to £1,772. She also recommended Haven pay Mr S £150 for
avoidable delays in handling his claim between 24 November 2021 and 19 January 2022.
But she said she didnt think it would be fair and reasonable to recommend Haven pay
Mr Ss storage costs before 25 January 2022. This was because Mr S had previously said
he didnt want to claim on his policy with Haven for the car repairs.
Haven accepted our investigators recommendations. Mr S initially also accepted them.
But when our investigator then clarified with Mr S that she didnt think she could look into the
date at which Havens responsibility for the storage fees came to an end  an issue that is,
understandably, of central importance to Mr S  he asked for his complaint to be referred to
an ombudsman.
In my provisional decision of 24 January 2023, I explained that some of the findings Id 
reached  and some of the things I thought Haven needed to do to put things right for Mr S  
differed from our investigators. Mr S has given his comments on my provisional decision, 
both in a phone call with one of our senior advisers and also by email. Haven has also given 
me some comments. 
So Mr Ss complaint has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons given in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold 
Mr Ss complaint. In my provisional decision, I said:
Valuation
Looking at the issue of the valuation first, Mr Ss policy says that, in settling his claim, the
most Haven will pay is the market value of his car up to the limit of cover on his policy and
after deducting the policy excess.
The policy says the cars market value is the cost of replacing Mr Ss car with one of a
similar make, model and specification taking into account the age, mileage and condition of
his car. It says Haven will typically request the advice of an engineer and refer to guides and
other relevant sources.
Generally, its not our role to put an exact value on a car. But, when looking at a complaint
like Mr Ss, among other things, we check the relevant trade guides to see if the insurer has
made a reasonable offer in line with them.
I can see Haven used one of the trade guides for its valuation. But the value this guide gave
was higher than Havens valuation. When our investigator looked at Mr Ss complaint, she
got valuations from three trade guides, all of which were higher than Havens valuation. So 
she recommended a valuation of £1,772. This valuation is within the range of the values
given by the three trade guides. As such, I think its a fair and reasonable valuation. I also
note neither Mr S nor Haven have disputed it.
Service
Turning next to the issue of the service Haven gave Mr S, I can see there was a significant
and avoidable delay by Haven in progressing Mr Ss claim. On 24 November 2021, Havenwas notified that the third partys insurers would deal with the claim as road traffic act
insurers on a without prejudice basis. But Haven didnt tell Mr S this at the time. And Haven
only informed Mr S of the third-party insurers offer when he chased it for an update on his
claim nearly two months later, on 19 January 2022. In the meantime, in error, Haven had
also closed Mr Ss claim file.
Mr S has clearly been frustrated by the length of time its taken Haven to deal with his claim.
I can understand why. There was an almost two-month delay in Haven telling Mr S about the
third-party insurers offer. It only did so when Mr S called for an update on his claim. And it
was only at this point, too, that Haven realised its error in closing Mr Ss claim file. Mr S says
hes disabled and has some serious health conditions. I think these will have heightened the
impact Havens failings have had on him. Much of the dispute that followed couldve been
avoided if Haven passed the information about the third-party insurer to Mr S in a timely way.
For these reasons, I think its fair and reasonable to direct Haven to pay Mr S £300 in
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused him.
Storage fees
Turning finally to the issue of the garages storage fees, as Ive already said, there was an
avoidable delay by Haven in updating Mr S on the third-party insurers offer. If it werent for
this delay, I have no doubt Mr S wouldve tried to contact that insurer much sooner and so
started his claim on his policy with Haven much sooner too. And that wouldve reduced the
garages storage fees significantly. So, from what Ive seen so far, I think its fair and
reasonable to direct Haven to pay the garages storage fees from 24 November 2021 (rather
than 25 January 2022)  because its the date on which I would reasonably have expected
Mr S to take his claim with it forward if Haven had given him the necessary information when
it shouldve.
At this stage, I dont intend to direct Haven to pay the garages storage fees from 29 October
2021 (that is, the date of Mr Ss accident) until 23 November 2021 (the day before the third-
party insurers offer). Thats because it seems Mr S didnt initially want to claim on his policy
for the damage to his car. Records Haven has given us (dated 1 November 2021) say: ph
(that is, Mr S) is dealing with iv (insured vehicle) damage himself just wants to claim for
injury for him and his passenger. If Mr S has a different recollection of what he discussed
with Haven in those first weeks following the accident, or if he has any other evidence he
can show me about events around then, Id be grateful if he could let me know and I can
look at this point again.
When it comes to deciding for how long Haven should pay the garages storage fees, this is
difficult. Theres an argument Haven should only be responsible for the garage fees up until
24 February 2022, since thats the date it says it wanted to collect the car to take it for
salvage. But the dispute about the fees is at the heart of Mr Ss complaint. I think Mr S was
right to dispute them  they were much higher than they wouldve been but for Havens delay
in dealing with his claim. And the dispute over them is also the reason theyve continued to 
accrue. So I dont think its fair and reasonable to say Mr S should be responsible for all the
garages fees from 24 February 2022. But nor do I think its fair and reasonable to say Haven
should be responsible for all of them  since, based on what Ive seen so far, I think the
garages fees up until 23 November 2021 are Mr Ss responsibility.
Based on my findings so far, I think Mr S was responsible for the garages storage fees from
29 October 2021 (or whenever the car was recovered to the garage) to 23 November 2021 
a period of around one month. And I think Haven was responsible for them from 24
November 2021 through to 24 February 2022  a period of around three months. So, from
that time onwards, my provisional decision is that its fair and reasonable Mr S and Haven
should be responsible for the fees that accrued subsequently in the same proportions. SoMr S should be responsible for a quarter of the garages ongoing fees and Haven should be
responsible for three quarters of them.
Before I make a final decision on this complaint, it would be helpful to have an invoice from
the garage showing its storage fees in total to date. If this is something Mr S could arrange,
Id be grateful.
As Ive already mentioned, Mr S has given us his comments on my provisional decision both 
by phone and by email. He doesnt think the compensation of £300 Ive proposed is enough 
for the stress hes experienced. He says, among other things, Haven needs to be taught a 
lesson and hed get a lot more if he took his case to court. 
I dont doubt dealing with this claim has been very upsetting for Mr S, and inconvenient too. 
For example, hes told us he made over 150 calls to Haven and was at times reduced to 
tears because of the way he was treated by Havens call handlers in some of these calls. But 
its not our role to punish a business for its mistakes. Nor do we approach the issue of 
compensation in the same way as the courts. So, while Ive reflected on Mr Ss comments, 
they havent changed my conclusion that Haven should pay him £300 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience its caused him. And, of course, it is open to Mr S to reject 
my final decision and take his case to court, if he wishes.
Turning next to Havens comments on my provisional decision. It says it accepts my review 
of Mr Ss complaint and agrees to the compensation payment, as well as covering the 
storage fees from 24 November 2021 to 24 February 2022. But Haven doesnt agree it 
should be liable for 75% of the storage fees thereafter because it says it was willing to 
collect the vehicle on 24th February 2022 and Mr S would not allow us to do so. Haven says 
that, at its salvage agents, it would get sixty days of free storage and pay £3.00 a day 
thereafter. So its offered to pay £3.00 a day from 25 April 2022 towards the storage fees. 
Haven concludes that Mr S has inflated the claim costs and while it appreciates there was 
an error on its part before this, this could have been resolved at complaint stage without 
incurring further costs.  
Its my understanding that the garage at which Mr Ss car was stored wouldnt hand the car 
over to Havens salvage agent unless its accrued storage fees were paid  not that Mr S 
wouldnt allow Haven to take the car. And at this point Mr S was disputing Havens position 
that all the storage fees were his responsibility (rightly, in my view). It follows that I dont 
think its fair to say Mr S inflated the claim costs in the way Haven describes. So none of 
Havens comments have persuaded me to change the conclusion I set out in my provisional 
decision that it should pay 75% of the ongoing storage fees from 24 February 2022.
Mr S has kindly got an invoice from the garage showing its storage fees from 31 October 
2021 to 1 February 2022, together with details of its daily storage fee. For clarity, Im 
attaching a copy of that invoice to this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given here and in my provisional decision of 24 January 2023 (which now 
form part of this final decision), I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Haven Insurance
Company Limited to:
Settle Mr Ss claim based on a valuation of £1,772, rather than £995, for his car. 
Pay Mr S £300 for the distress and inconvenience its handling of his claim has
caused him.Pay Mr Ss garages storage fees in full from 24 November 2021 to 24 February
2022.
Pay 75% of Mr Ss garages fees from 25 February 2022 until the date the car is
collected from the garage by Haven for salvage. But if Haven hasnt collected the car 
from the garage by the date we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision on this 
complaint, Haven Insurance Company Limited must pay 100% of the garages 
storage fees from that date.
Haven Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr S the settlement amount Ive referred to 
in the first bullet point above, as well as the compensation payment Ive set out in the second 
bullet point above, within 28 days of the date we tell it Mr S has accepted this final decision. 
If it doesnt, Haven Insurance Company Limited must pay Mr S interest on these amounts at 
the rate of 8% a year simple from the date we tell it Mr S has accepted this final decision 
until the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman