DRN-4349897
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a claim they made 
on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr and Mrs G took out an annual travel insurance policy online, through a 
broker. The policy was underwritten by Great Lakes. During the sale, Mr G declared that he 
suffered from high blood pressure, which Great Lakes agreed to cover. Mr and Mrs G were 
due to travel abroad in August 2022.
Unfortunately, a few weeks before they were due to travel, Mr G was admitted to hospital. 
He was diagnosed with diverticulitis and a blood clot. Due to the medication he was 
prescribed, Mr G wasnt fit to fly and therefore, the trip had to be cancelled. Mr and Mrs G 
cancelled their trip and made a claim on the policy.
Great Lakes looked into Mr and Mrs Gs claim and obtained further medical evidence. It 
noted that in addition to high blood pressure, Mr G had also been diagnosed with other 
medical conditions which he hadnt told it about. So Great Lakes concluded that Mr G had 
deliberately or recklessly answered medical screening questions hed been asked at the 
point of sale. On that basis, it turned down Mr and Mrs Gs claim. However, it did 
acknowledge thered been delays in the way it had handled the claim and so it paid Mr and 
Mrs G £100 compensation.
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with Great Lakes decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld in part. She felt that Mr 
G hadnt taken reasonable care to answer the medical questions hed been asked at the 
point of policy sale. However, she didnt think Mr G had deliberately sought to mislead Great 
Lakes about his health and she didnt think Great Lakes had shown hed answered the 
medical questions recklessly. Instead, she thought Mr G had made a careless 
misrepresentation.
Great Lakes had provided evidence which showed that if Mr G had fully declared his medical 
conditions, it would have charged him 54.1% more for the policy than hed actually paid. So 
the investigator recommended that Great Lakes should pay 54.1% of Mr Gs claim. She also 
felt that the compensation Great Lakes had already paid Mr and Mrs G was fair to 
acknowledge its delays in the handling of the claim.
Neither Great Lakes nor Mr and Mrs G agreed with our investigator and Ive summarised 
their responses:
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree that Mr G had misrepresented his health. They said that Mr G 
was prescribed medication which he didnt take for one condition and that another condition 
was mild and had been well-controlled by medication for years. They said theyd thought 
another condition had been resolved by surgery many years ago and that his high blood 
pressure had been linked to it. They considered that Great Lakes hadnt shown that Mr G 
had failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation and they referred to both 
legislation and case law which they felt supported their position. They felt that even if it could 
be said that thered been careless misrepresentation, it wasnt proportionate to reduce the 
claim settlement by 54.1%. They thought a proportionate remedy would be to instead deduct 
the additional premium they would have been charged from the settlement. They maintained 
that the handling of the claim was unreasonable and unacceptable and that therefore, the 
compensation theyd been paid was insulting.
Great Lakes maintained that Mr G had deliberately or recklessly misrepresented his health 
to it. In brief, it said that Mr G was taking daily medication for conditions which he didnt 
disclose. And it didnt think it could put any failure to disclose those conditions down to an 
oversight on Mr Gs part. It was satisfied Mr G had understood what was being asked of him 
at the point of sale, given hed declared high blood pressure. It stated that some of the 
misrepresentations were of quite serious medical conditions, which amplified why it was 
inexplicable that Mr G hadnt declared them. It said it didnt accept that a consumer who 
failed to declare a number of medical conditions had acted fairly or reasonably. It restated 
that the proximity and severity of the omissions are such that they were deliberate 
misrepresentations.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partly uphold this complaint and to direct Great Lakes to pay 
Mr and Mrs Gs claim on a proportionate basis. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And  
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,  
the law; the terms of the insurance contract; and the available medical evidence, to decide  
whether I think Great Lakes handled Mr and Mrs Gs claim fairly.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)  
Act 2012 (CIDRA). CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a  
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is  
that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies available to it, provided 
the  misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it 
to be a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy 
on different terms - or not at all - if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take  
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether  
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
When Mr and Mrs G took out the policy by online, they were asked information about 
themselves and any medical conditions theyd had in the last two years. Great Lakes used 
this information to decide whether or not to insure Mr and Mrs G and if so, on what terms. 
Great Lakes says that Mr and Mrs G didnt correctly answer the questions they were asked 
during the online sales process. This means the principles set out in CIDRA are relevant. So I think its fair and reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs 
Gs claim. Ive taken into account the caselaw Mr and Mrs G have referred to when 
considering this complaint. But Ive placed more weight on the relevant legislation - CIDRA.
Great Lakes thinks Mr and Mrs G failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when they  took out the policy online. So Ive considered whether I think 
this was a fair conclusion for Great Lakes to reach.
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider  
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. Ive seen a copy of the 
medical screening questions Mr and Mrs G were asked when they purchased the policy. Ive 
set out those questions below:
Do any travellers on the policy have any medical conditions?
IF YOU ANSWER YES TO ANY OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW, PLEASE SELECT 
YES
Have you been prescribed medication in the last 2 year; whether you are taking it 
or not? This includes tablets (including Morphine based pain killers), inhalers or 
injections
Do you currently routinely visit a GP. hospital or clinic for check ups, 
consultations or treatments? This includes annual reviews or reviews once every 
2 years for a condition.
Are you visited by a doctor or nurse or carer for check-ups or treatment (including 
dressings being changed)
Have you been admitted into hospital or undergone surgery in the last 2 years?
Have you received treatment for heart, stroke, or respiratory related illness in the 
last 2 years?
In my view, these questions were asked in a clear and understandable way and ought to 
have prompted a reasonable consumer to realise what information Great Lakes wanted to 
know. Great Lakes thinks that Mr G ought to have disclosed further existing medical 
conditions, including asthma; oesophageal reflux, renal impairment and renal artery 
stenosis, in addition to the high blood pressure he did declare. Its told us that had it known 
Mr Gs full medical history from the start, it would have offered cover on different terms. So 
Ive looked carefully at the medical records provided by Mr Gs GP to decide whether I think 
he took reasonable care to answer Great Lakes questions.
Mr Gs medical records show that he was diagnosed with asthma over 25 years before he 
took out the policy. Hed been prescribed an inhaler. Hed also been diagnosed with renal 
artery stenosis around 20 years before buying the policy; and renal impairment, along with 
gastro-oesophageal reflux disease around 19 years earlier. The notes indicate that Mr G 
was under the care of a nephrology department for renal impairment. And reference was 
also made to chronic kidney disease as a co-existing medical condition at the point Mr G 
was admitted to hospital in August 2022. Mr G appeared to have been prescribed 
medication for reflux, along with three medications which can be used in the treatment of 
high blood pressure. And the GPs medical certificate also stated that Mr G was medicated 
for the ongoing treatment of renal artery stenosis. So its clear that Mr G had been 
prescribed medication  in the form of an inhaler and reflux medication, which he didnt 
declare. Neither did he declare that he suffered from gastro-oesophageal reflux disease, asthma, renal impairment or renal artery stenosis. 
Ive thought carefully about the explanation Mr G has given for not disclosing these 
conditions. He says that his asthma is mild and that he hadnt had to use his inhaler for 
many years. He hadnt been told he had gastro-oesophageal reflux disease  hed simply 
been told he had reflux and this condition had been comfortably controlled by medication. He 
didnt think hed needed to declare either condition. And hed thought the high blood 
pressure diagnosis was a direct result of the renal artery stenosis and renal impairment 
which had been found many years before, so it hadnt crossed his mind to declare them. 
However, as Ive said, I find that Great Lakes questions were clear and easily 
understandable. One question specifically refers to medication which is prescribed, even if it 
isnt taken  so I think Mr G ought to have been prompted to declare his asthma and inhaler 
medication. Mr G appears to have been aware that he took medication for reflux, even if he 
wasnt aware of the formal name given to his condition. Again, I find these conditions ought 
to have been declared. The GP specifically stated that Mr G had been medicated for renal 
artery stenosis in the two years prior to taking out the policy. So this condition would fall 
within the scope of Great Lakes questions. And although it isnt clear when Mr G last saw 
nephrology for renal impairment, the GP notes indicate that this was a stable condition which 
remained an active problem. On that basis, I find Mr G ought reasonably have been 
prompted to declare at least asthma, reflux and renal artery stenosis to Great Lakes and 
most likely, renal impairment too.
In my view then, the available evidence suggests that Mr G did make a qualifying  
misrepresentation under CIDRA. So I think Great Lakes is reasonably entitled to apply the 
relevant remedy available to it under the Act. I must make it clear that theres no requirement 
under the Act for the condition causing a claim to be linked to any misrepresented condition. 
Great Lakes strongly believes that Mr Gs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. If 
that were the case, under the Act, Great Lakes would be entitled to turn down the claim, 
cancel Mr and Mrs Gs policy from the start and retain the premium Mr and Mrs G had paid.
CIDRA defines what is meant by a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation. It says:
A qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the consumer
(a) knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue or 
misleading, and
(b)  knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.

It is for the insurer to show that a qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless.
Ive carefully considered Great Lakes submissions on this point. I accept that Mr G took 
daily medication for at least one of the conditions he didnt declare and that two of the 
undiagnosed conditions can be serious in nature. On the other hand, while Ive explained 
why I think Mr G ought to have declared at least three additional conditions, Im not 
persuaded that Great Lakes has shown me that Mr G deliberately or recklessly sought to 
mislead it as to his health. I say that because Mr G did declare three medications to Great 
Lakes and he did make some health disclosures. In my view, it seems less likely that Mr G 
wouldve declared any conditions to Great Lakes if hed intended to misrepresent his overall 
health deliberately or recklessly to it. So I dont find it would be fair or reasonable for Great 
Lakes to apply the remedy for deliberate or reckless misrepresentation to this claim.As Ive explained, I dont think Mr G intended to mislead Great Lakes  but I dont think he 
took enough care to ensure he answered its questions correctly either. CIDRA says, in 
cases of careless misrepresentation, that an insurer is entitled to rewrite the policy as if it 
had all of the information it wanted to know at the outset. That means that if it would have 
still offered cover, but on different terms, an insurer may treat the contract as if it had been 
entered into on those terms. And it says:
In addition, if the insurer would have entered into the consumer insurance contract (whether 
the terms relating to matters other than the premium would have been the same or different), 
but would have charged a higher premium, the insurer may reduce proportionately the 
amount to be paid on a claim.
The Act specifically explains how a proportionate settlement is to be calculated. This is by 
dividing the premium which was actually paid by the premium which should have been paid 
and multiplying that figure by 100. In Mr and Mrs Gs case, they paid £111.98 for the policy, 
but they ought to have paid £206.96. Like the investigator, I calculate that Mr and Mrs G paid 
54.1% of the premium they ought to have paid. This means that Great Lakes is entitled, by 
statute law, to only pay 54.1% of the claim value. And Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for 
settlement to be paid in line with the relevant legislation. I appreciate Mr and Mrs G feel it 
would be fairer to simply the deduct the additional premium they ought to have paid from the 
total settlement. But I see no fair or reasonable grounds for departing from the law in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
It's clear too that Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with the way Great Lakes handled their claim. 
However, from the timeline of events Ive seen, it appears that from the point the claim was 
made, it took Great Lakes around three months to make a claims decision and communicate 
it to Mr and Mrs G. In the circumstances, while I dont doubt this period of delay caused Mr 
and Mrs G some additional inconvenience and upset, I find the £100 compensation theyve 
already been paid is a fair award to reflect the likely impact the claims delay had on them.
In summary, despite my natural sympathy with Mr and Mrs Gs position, I find that they did 
make a qualifying, careless misrepresentation under CIDRA. So Im directing Great Lakes to 
now settle Mr and Mrs Gs claim proportionately, together with interest on that amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes must settle this claim 
proportionately and therefore, I partly uphold this complaint.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay 54.1% of the value of Mr and Mrs Gs claim, in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It must also add interest to settlement 
at an annual rate of 8% simple, from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
If Great Lakes considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr 
and Mrs G a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman