DRN-2257384
The complaint
Mr V complains (on behalf of himself and the estate of his late wife Mrs P) that Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr V and Mrs P took out PPI during a meeting at a Halifax branch when they were arranging 
a joint mortgage which started in 1994. The policy covered Mr V and it protected the monthly 
mortgage repayments in the event that he couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. 
Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. His main complaints are that Halifax didnt 
explain to Mr V and Mrs P that PPI was optional and he says, had it done so, they wouldnt 
have taken it out as PPI wasnt something they needed. Mr V told us they had other ways 
they couldve paid the mortgage if he wasnt working. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr V and Mrs Ps complaint. Heres why I say this.
Although PPI was taken out just for Mr V, as this was a joint mortgage with Mrs P, Ive 
looked at both their circumstances at the time. 
Its understandable that Mr V mightnt be able to remember in detail everything that 
happened when this PPI was arranged. This was a long time ago and so, whilst Ive no 
reason at all to doubt that hes sure about what hes told us, what Mr V says isnt enough on 
its own for me to be able to uphold the complaint.
I have to decide what I think is most likely taking into account all the information Ive got and 
the wider circumstances. 
Despite what he recalls, it looks like Mr V and Mrs P discussed taking out PPI alongside their 
mortgage. Heres why I say this.
I can see that theres a section on their mortgage application headed Accident, sickness 
and unemployment insurance. This gives brief details of the protection this offers and gives 
applicants the chance to say if theyd like to take it out.
On Mr V and Mrs Ps completed mortgage application, next to where it says: Do you wish to 
join the Scheme? (Y/N) the box is marked N. 
And it also looks like someone has written not required then crossed through this. 
So I think there probably was some discussion about this and Mr V and Mrs P understood 
that having PPI was optional and it was up to them to choose whether or not to take it out.  
As well as completing the mortgage application to arrange the borrowing they wanted, I've 
also seen a copy of the separate PPI application which Mr V completed. 
Mr V put his name down as the person to be insured, completed some questions to confirm 
he was eligible to take out this cover and signed the completed form to take out the policy. 
The mortgage was a long term financial commitment and their home couldve been at risk if 
Mr V and Mrs P found themselves unexpectedly unable to keep up the monthly mortgage 
repayments. I can see why Mr V and Mrs P mightve wanted to protect their home by taking 
advantage of the benefits that PPI offered. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mr V and Mrs P wouldve known at the time that it was up 
to them to say if they wanted the PPI and it was added on to their mortgage account when 
they chose to take it out for Mr V.
Halifax recommended PPI and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable. 
Mr V was eligible for the policy. He was covered for accident, sickness and unemployment.
If Mr V made a successful accident or sickness claim Halifax has confirmed (and our 
adjudicator double checked this) that the policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months per 
claim. So, although Mr V had good sick pay through work, the policy couldve paid out for a 
lot longer than Mr V couldve depended on his employer to pay him sick pay. And the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits  I think this couldve been particularly useful if 
Mr V mightve had some extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled  especially as he 
wouldve been on half pay only after 6 months off work sick and his employer stopped 
paying him after 12 months off work.   
The policy also paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Mr V lost his job unexpectedly 
and found himself out of work. 
There was no guarantee when Mr V and Mrs P took out this mortgage that they would 
always have savings to rely on because everyones circumstances can change 
unexpectedly. And, if Mr V and Mrs P didnt put all their money towards keeping down the 
cost of the mortgage, perhaps because they wanted to keep savings intact to provide 
financial security or to spend on other things, then I think they wouldve valued the protection 
PPI offered. 
Having PPI meant that Mr V and Mrs P could be sure theyd be able to pay the mortgage 
monthly repayments without breaking into their savings.  Mr V mentioned having valuables that could have been liquidated. I dont know if Mr V and 
Mrs P owned (and couldve sold in time) enough items of sufficient value to keep on paying 
the mortgage each month bearing in mind that it was a financial commitment they were 
expecting to have to pay for many years. Its also possible that they mightnt have been able 
to rely on achieving the prices they hoped for in the circumstances of a forced sale.
And I dont think its likely that Mr V and Mrs P wouldve wanted to be obliged to sell items of 
value just because they couldnt afford to make the monthly mortgage repayments when 
they had the option of taking out PPI which provided them with security and peace of mind 
that their mortgage would be covered even if Mr V wasnt in work.
Ive thought carefully about the endowment policy Mr V told us they arranged around the 
same time as they took out the mortgage and the PPI. It looks like this provided life cover 
and critical illness cover. It paid out in different circumstances to the PPI and provided a 
different sort of cover paying out in the event of long term, serious, life changing or life 
limiting conditions  or loss of life. So this doesnt mean that the PPI wasnt suitable for 
them. 
Setting up PPI alongside their mortgage meant they werent at risk of having to cash in their 
endowment policy early  possibly when they couldnt be sure of getting a good return. 
Having cover in place so they couldve continued to make their monthly mortgage 
repayments without having to rely on an endowment policy wouldve provided a useful extra 
benefit to Mr V and Mrs P and I can see why Mr V and Mrs P couldve viewed this as part of 
their overall protection package.
The PPI provided long term protection as Mr V couldve made repeated claims on it. 
The mortgage was taken out over a 25 year term when only Mr V was in work. So I think its 
likely that losing Mr Vs income wouldve had a substantial impact on Mr V and Mrs Ps joint 
financial circumstances  PPI protected them against that risk. 
Overall, after thinking carefully about everything that Mr V told us about their financial 
situation at the time, I think that the PPI offered Mr V and Mrs P useful benefits and Halifaxs 
recommendation was suitable. 
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr V and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But it doesnt look as if Mr V wouldve been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. So, I dont think its likely that having more information 
about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put them off taking out the PPI. 
I dont know what information Halifax gave Mr V and Mrs P about the monthly policy cost. 
But they chose to take out cover when they didnt have to. There was an indication of the 
likely cost set out on the application they filled in to get the policy. So they wouldve had 
some idea of the monthly premium. 
And it looks like they bought some extra benefit to cover some other costs as well as the 
mortgage monthly repayments. So keeping costs down doesnt seem to have been a priority 
for Mr V and Mrs P at the time  it appears they were happy to pay the monthly premium for 
the level of benefit they wanted to have. 
Mr V and Mrs P couldve cancelled the policy at any time without incurring any extra cost if 
they no longer wanted to pay for it.  Its possible there were some failings in the way this policy was sold  but I dont think this 
wouldve made any difference to what happened. I think Mr V and Mrs P still wouldve 
decided to buy the policy for Mr V even if theyd been better informed as the PPI gave them 
useful protection in their particular situation. 
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs to give back to Mr V some of the commission 
Mr V and Mrs P paid. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. 
As Mr V and Mrs Ps mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont 
apply. So Halifax doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr V paid for the PPI which 
Mr V and Mrs P had with that mortgage.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V, acting on 
behalf of himself and the estate of Mrs P, to accept or reject my decision before 
26 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman