DRN-3976616
The complaint
Mr M complains that the information displayed by Scottish Equitable Plc, trading as AEGON, 
(Aegon) through its online portal about his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) is difficult 
to understand. And when he has asked for an explanation of this Aegon provided poor 
customer service and its answers remained unclear.
What happened
Mr M has a SIPP with Aegon. In December 2021 Mr M began drawing benefits from the 
SIPP.
In January 2022, Mr M queried the information being displayed on his online dashboard 
page about his SIPP with Aegon  including the balance, monies in and out and the change 
in value and how these were calculated. Mr M also sought clarification about the tax being 
taken from income payments.
Mr M attempted to discuss this over the phone with Aegon, but had a call cut off, 
experienced long wait times and says its staff were not able to answer his queries. So, he 
raised his queries via email. His initial email noted that during one of the calls an Aegon 
member of staff had agreed to send him a guide, but that hadnt been received.
Aegon emailed Mr M on 18 January 2022. This email seems to have been the one agreed in 
the call but wasnt in direct response to his email queries. This email gave a formula for how 
the change in value figures were calculated and included an example, although not based on 
Mr Ms SIPP. 
Mr M received no further response to his email questions, despite several chasers. So, he 
raised a complaint in February 2022. In summary he said the information displayed via the 
dashboard was difficult to understand, and his financial adviser agreed with this. No 
explanation of the figures or how they were calculated was available online. And he hadnt 
received statements detailing the drawdown amounts hed received or information about tax 
deducted. He explained the issues hed faced when trying to obtain an explanation over the 
phone from Aegon and that ultimately it had been unable to help. And he was unhappy that 
his emails had not been responded to.  
Aegon responded to Mr Ms complaint on 4 May 2022. It said it was satisfied the figures 
displayed online were correct. It did though provide some additional explanation of what 
each meant. Aegon also said Mr M was registered to receive online statements. It agreed 
that its communication following his queries had been poor and that it had failed to provide 
an acceptable level of service. As a result, it offered him £300 for the distress this had 
caused. Aegons response said Mr M could escalate his complaint to either our service or 
the Pensions Ombudsman and provided contact details.
Mr M responded noting, although Aegon said he was registered for online statements, he 
was receiving postal ones, but they didnt answer his queries about the tax deducted. He 
also asked Aegon where he could access the online statements and if its email of 4 May 
2022 was its final response.
After not receiving a response for several weeks Mr M contacted Aegon again. He said 
having looked at the explanation it had given previously and tried to follow this through he 
still couldnt understand the information being displayed online, as his calculations didnt 
correspond with Aegons. He said he had located online statements and tax deducted but 
couldnt find a basis for the tax calculation, such as the tax code used. So, Mr M said his 
concerns hadnt been addressed and asked Aegon to provide its final response.
Mr M received no further response from Aegon. So, he asked our service to consider the 
complaint.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He explained that we couldnt require 
Aegon to change the information it displayed online. But he didnt think Aegon had done all it 
shouldve to help Mr M understand this information. He noted that Aegon had tried to answer 
Mr Ms queries. But it was clear that the information initially provided hadnt been sufficient 
and had led to further confusion. During our investigation, Aegon provided further 
explanation of how the figures displayed online were calculated. And the investigator was 
satisfied that the information displayed was correct based on this explanation. But he felt this 
information ought to have been provided to Mr M much sooner. Aegon also explained to us 
that the tax code used was provided to it directly by HMRC, and that Mr M shouldve 
received the same information from HMRC. But the Investigator thought again that Aegon 
couldve explained this to Mr M when he queried it. And he said Aegons failure to respond 
promptly to Mr Ms queries was disappointing. To put things right he recommended that 
Aegon increase its offer in respect of the distress caused to £500. 
Aegon accepted the Investigators recommendation.
Mr M did not accept our Investigators findings. He didnt think the recommended 
compensation fairly addressed the distress hed been caused. He also still didnt think the 
explanations were clear and questioned why some of the figures provided as part of the 
explanation were not present on the online dashboard display. He also disputed that the 
figures were correct, noting some figures were shown as negatives and one of the 
explanations said to add this, which would result in a subtraction. And Mr M also said that his 
plan had decreased in value while this had been ongoing.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. He noted that Mr M thought 
additional information should be displayed by Aegon through its dashboard. But he said the 
dashboard was a summary and Aegon was entitled to decide what information to display, 
and our service cannot require it to change this. Overall, he was satisfied that the information 
displayed was correct and he didnt think Aegon had caused a financial loss. And he still 
considered the recommended redress was fair.
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms complaint stems from the information Aegon displays on its online dashboard and 
this being difficult to understand. And hes referenced additional information he thinks ought 
to be included. 
The online dashboard information is only intended to provide a high-level summary or 
overview. Aegon produces quarterly statements which include full transaction details for 
Mr Ms SIPP. I cant see that Aegon committed to the dashboard summary replicating the in-depth statements. Or said that specific information would be included in the summary. The 
choice around what to include on the dashboard summary is Aegons and is made at its 
discretion. And I cant require Aegon to change the information it includes or displays or how 
it does so. 
Likewise, while I appreciate Mr Ms point that additional information, context and explanatory 
notes would potentially make the data easier to understand, I cant require Aegon to include 
this. And I havent seen anything to suggest the information being displayed to Mr M is in a 
different format to other customers. So, he doesnt appear to have been treated differently 
due to any technical issues or errors. 
So, I cant say that Aegon has acted incorrectly in terms of the information displayed through 
its online dashboard in general.
I do think though, when Mr M queried the information, Aegon needed to address his 
questions and help him understand it. Like our Investigator, I think the service Aegon has 
provided to Mr M in respect of this has been poor. And Aegon has acknowledged this.
Mr M explained hed encountered significant waiting times when trying to call Aegon and had 
a call disconnected after having waited. In its response to the complaint, Aegon said it 
couldnt identify the calls Mr M had made but apologised for the problems he encountered, 
so it doesnt seem to dispute what hes said. And Ive seen nothing that makes me inclined 
to disagree with what he has said about this either.
Ive also seen copies of several emails Mr M sent to Aegon that were unanswered, both 
before and after its initial response to his complaint. When responding to the complaint 
Aegon acknowledged that the department that dealt with such emails was experiencing a 
considerable backlog. But while I understand Aegon mayve experienced a resourcing issue, 
I still think not responding to emails is an example of poor service, particularly after its 
complaint response, when Mr M made it clear he still needed assistance and specifically 
asked Aegon to confirm if it had given a final response.
In terms of answering Mr Ms questions about the information displayed on the dashboard, I 
do think Aegon has attempted to assist Mr M. The email it sent him on 18 January 2022 
included a formula to attempt to answer his query. And in its response to the complaint in 
May 2022, I can see Aegon attempted to provide some further context. So, I dont think 
Aegon was intentionally trying to downplay Mr Ms query and does appear to have been 
trying to help. 
At the same time though, it was clear from the emails that Mr M was sending Aegon that he 
was still having difficulty with the dashboard information and required further assistance. And 
I think the information hed been given couldve been more thorough. 
One of the things that Mr M was trying to understand was the money in and money out 
figures. In particular he made the point that he hadnt made any contributions to the plan, so 
the money in figure was confusing. Aegon responded by saying that the money in figure as a 
combination of contributions and transfers. But I think it ought to have given further context. 
Before Mr M began drawing benefits from his pension, the whole fund was uncrystallised. 
Once he started taking benefits, including taking his tax-free cash entitlement in increments, 
portions of his fund became crystallised. Mr M is entitled to take 25% of his pension tax 
free. When he draws an amount as tax free cash, an amount corresponding to three times 
what he had drawn (effectively the 75% of a transaction that isnt tax free) has to be 
crystallised. And it transfers into the drawdown section of his pension. This movement is an 
internal transfer  money goes out of the uncrystallised pot and in to the drawdown. But Mr M didnt make this transfer, it happened automatically. And Aegon didnt explain that this 
was part of the transfers it had referenced as being part of the money in and money out 
figures. And indeed, no further explanation was provided to Mr M directly after the initial 
response to his complaint. And it was only after our service became involved that this further 
context was given. And even that was to our Investigator, rather than Mr M.
In terms of the change in value figures and percentage change, Aegon provided Mr M with 
the formula it uses to calculate these figures (using the other figures displayed on the 
dashboard screen) in its email of 18 January 2022. But it included example figures, rather 
than those relevant to his SIPP at the time. And I think using real figures from Mr Ms online 
dashboard couldve saved a great deal of confusion. I also think this information couldve 
been reiterated and expanded on in Aegons response to the complaint, as Mr Ms emails in 
the intervening time clearly indicated this was still a source of confusion.
Mr M has made the point that the formulas say which figures need to be added and 
subtracted to generate the result. And one of these figures on his online dashboard is 
denoted as a minus, or negative figure. So, following this formula produces a different 
outcome than Aegon said, because adding a negative, results in a subtraction. And 
subtracting a negative, results in an addition.
The figure in question is the money out figure. I dont think Aegon denoting this with a 
minus or as a negative is unusual, as it represents money that has gone out of the different 
parts of the pension. But I do agree that Aegon shouldve been clearer in its explanation that 
this denotation should be ignored, and it was just the numerical value that was to be used, 
particularly when Mr M directly raised this. But that point doesnt appear to have been 
responded to by Aegon, which again isnt good customer service.
Im satisfied that the explanation Aegon has now provided about how the figures it displays 
on its dashboard are calculated in reference to one another is accurate. And, based on the 
quarterly pension statements Ive seen, the figures for the value of the pension and the 
money in and money appear to reflect the account movements. But as Ive explained, I think 
a much clearer explanation couldve been provided sooner.
I also think Aegon shouldve responded more thoroughly to Mr Ms query about the tax 
deducted from his pension income. The quarterly statements show income tax deductions in 
the transaction list for the drawdown section of Mr Ms pension. Which I understand Aegon 
referred Mr M to. But Mr M made it clear he was asking about the tax code that was used. 
Aegon has said that it receives this information directly from HMRC and that Mr M can 
request the information from the same source. I wouldnt expect the tax code to be displayed 
on the quarterly statements Aegon produces  as it isnt the source of this information. And 
for the same reasons I dont think it is unreasonable that this isnt listed in the dashboard 
summary. And again, the information displayed there is a matter for Aegons discretion. But I 
do think, when Mr M specifically asked for information about the code being used  as he did 
here  that it wouldve been reasonable for Aegon to confirm this. And I cant see that it did 
so until the complaint came to our service. So again, I think the service Aegon provided 
couldve been better. 
Overall, therefore, while I cant instruct Aegon to amend the information it displays on its 
online dashboard and I think that information does reflect the status of Mr Ms pension, I 
think the service it provided him in respect of his queries couldve been significantly better. 
So, Ive thought about what a fair and reasonable way to address this is.
Mr M has said that this has impacted his ability to operate his pension and says this has 
fallen in value. But again, the dashboard information is a summary and what is included is a matter of Aegons discretion. Full transaction information was included in the quarterly 
statements which were made available to Mr M. And Ive seen evidence that several fund 
switches were carried out, which appear to have been at the instruction of Mr Ms financial 
adviser, in February and March 2022, while the complaint was ongoing. So, while I 
appreciate that Mr M considered the information on Aegons dashboard difficult to 
understand, I dont agree that these issues prevented the operation of his pension. And I 
havent seen any evidence that Aegon has made any error in managing his pension while 
the complaint was ongoing.
Aegon acknowledged in its initial response to the complaint that the poor service provided 
was likely to have caused Mr M upset. Our Investigator also agreed that Mr M wouldve been 
caused distress by what happened. And recommended that Aegon pay £500 to address this 
 which it agreed to. Mr M says this doesnt address the impact this has had on him.
Mr M has explained that he had begun drawing his pension, which was his source of income 
for the rest of his life. And due to changes in financial circumstances and market conditions 
he had concerns about the long-term viability of his pension. He was anxious about this, so 
wanted to gather as much information as he could. And when that information was unclear 
and Aegon failed to fully answer his queries, this made his concerns even greater. And as 
his questions remained unanswered for so long, this only made matters worse.
I dont doubt this was distressing for Mr M. And Ive taken on board what he has said. At the 
same time though, as he has acknowledged, Aegon wasnt responsible for the market 
conditions impacting his pension. And these market conditions appear to have been the 
cause of a lot of his anxiety. As Ive explained the online dashboard was an information 
summary and wasnt the only source of information about his pension that Aegon provided. 
Fuller, more detailed information was provided through his quarterly statements. And while 
Mr M wouldve preferred additional information to be available through his online dashboard, 
Aegon wasnt required to change this. And the information that was displayed about the 
pension value and movements was accurate.
The service Aegon provided to Mr M, in my view, could and should have been a lot better, 
for the reasons Ive already explained. And I agree that this poor service and him not getting 
answers to his questions  which Aegon ought to have been able to provide much sooner  
wouldve likely exasperated the anxiety he was experiencing. But again, Im conscious that, 
although its explanations were incomplete and couldve been clearer, Aegon did attempt to 
address his queries. 
My role is not to fine or punish a business. It is to make a decision on what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable. And, while I know this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr M, I 
think, like our Investigator, that a payment of £500 to address the distress Aegons actions 
have caused is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
To put matters right I require Scottish Equitable Plc, trading as AEGON, to pay Mr M £500 
for the distress it has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Ben StokerOmbudsman