DRN-2330062
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained about the surrender values of their ISAs provided by Old Mutual 
Wealth Life & Pensions Limited. They say they were told they would receive a higher 
amount.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B each had an ISA with Old Mutual. They applied to surrender these on 
9 March 2020. In a telephone call on 11 March 2020, Old Mutual informed Mr & Mrs Bs 
representative that Mr B would receive £85,160 and Mrs B would receive £24,726. The 
surrender values were paid out on 17 March 2020. Mr B received £84,361 and Mrs B 
£24,600. Mr and Mrs B would like to be paid the full value as they were informed in the call 
of 11 March 2020.
Old Mutual investigated the complaint and agreed Mr and Mrs Bs representative had been 
misinformed about the surrender values. They offered to pay them £150 each for the 
disappointment.
Mrs B accepted the offer. Mr B did not and referred his complaint to this Service. 
One of our investigators considered the matter. He said that the terms and conditions 
explained how the surrender instruction would be processed. The instructions to sell the 
investments were received on 9 March 2020 and the valuation should have been on 
10 March, but as a trade was in progress, this was delayed until 11 March. Payment was 
then made to Mr and Mrs B on 16 March.
The investigator concluded that Old Mutual made a mistake in the call of 9 March, but 
Mr and Mrs B were not entitled to the values quoted. He agreed with Old Mutual that the 
offers of £150 each were fair and reasonable.
Mr B did not accept the investigators conclusion. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the evidence, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons.
Old Mutual received Mr Bs instructions to sell the investments on 9 March 2020. The terms 
of the ISA said that they would first complete all instructions being processed at the time. 
The terms also explained Old Mutual would send the instructions to the fund manager the 
next working day. As an income payment was being processed on 9 March with the payment 
to be made on 10 March. The next available date to process the sale of the units was 
11 March. I am satisfied this was the correct date to use in accordance with the terms of the 
ISA.
Mr Bs representative was informed in a telephone call on 9 March that Mr and Mrs B would 
receive the unit prices on 9 March. I am satisfied this was not correct. I have carefully 
listened to the call and I am satisfied that nothing in the calls was said to override the terms 
of the ISA. The call handler made an error, but this did not mean Mr and Mrs B were entitled 
to the values quoted.
I am satisfied that Mr B has received the amount he is entitled to receive from his ISA. 
However, his representative was given misleading information. This has caused some 
distress, but I think Old Mutuals offer of £150 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Old Mutual paid the correct amount for the surrender of the ISA. I do not uphold this part of 
the complaint. But Old Mutual did make an error. The offer of £150 is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Ayomide Fagbemi
Ombudsman