DRN-2361712
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that First Complete Ltd (trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network) made 
an error when it recommended a mortgage to them. They say they are about £1,700 worse 
off as a result and ask for compensation. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K wanted to move house and took mortgage advice from PRIMIS. PRIMIS 
recommended they take out a new mortgage for their purchase. It told Mr and Mrs K theyd 
have to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) of about £3,200 to their existing lender. This 
was wrong, the ERC was about £4,900. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt find out about the error until after theyd exchange contracts for their 
sale and purchase. They didnt want to apply to their existing lender to port their existing 
mortgage as it would have meant higher monthly payments, and they were concerned about 
timing. They continued with their purchase and new lender and paid the ERC. Mr and Mrs K 
said if theyd known about the ERC at the outset they wouldnt have gone ahead with the 
purchase.
Our investigator said, on balance, she thought Mr and Mrs K would still have gone ahead 
with the purchase if theyd known the amount of the ERC. Theyd paid a reservation fee for 
the new property before taking mortgage advice. She said as the ERC would always have 
been payable, Mr and Mrs K werent worse off. The investigator said Mr and Mrs K relied on 
what theyd been told by PRIMIS and its mistake had caused them upset. She said it should 
pay compensation of £300. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree. Mrs K said they had no option but to continue and pay the ERC 
as theyd exchanged contracts. She said PRIMIS put pressure on them to change lenders 
and port the mortgage. Mrs K said £300 wasnt enough for the higher ERC they paid and the 
stress it caused them.
PRIMIS didnt agree either, saying £300 was too much compensation. It said Mr and Mrs K 
were aware of the ERC and had the relevant documents from their lender. It said Mrs Ks 
occupation meant shed have known about the ERC. PRIMIS said when the error came to 
light it offered an alternative to Mr and Mrs K. It said Mr and Mrs K wanted to change lenders 
to secure a lower interest rate, and it wasnt right for them to benefit from the lower interest 
rate and lower ERC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K contacted PRIMIS for mortgage advice in September 2019 as they wanted to 
move house. Mr and Mrs Ks existing mortgage product included an ERC. 
PRIMIS sent an email to Mrs K setting out the amount of the ERC due to their existing lender 
if they repaid their mortgage. It also set out the monthly payments if they ported the 
mortgage or took out a mortgage with a different lender. PRIMIS said by changing lender Mr 
and Mrs K would save the same amount or more after 14 months than the cost of the ERC.
PRIMIS accepts it made an error. The amount of the ERC set out in its email (about £3,200) 
was wrong. The ERC was about £4,900. So I have to decide what PRIMIS should do to put 
matters right. 
I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs K would have changed their plans to move house if theyd 
been told the ERC was £4,900 in September 2019, for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs K had taken out additional borrowing and a new product with the previous 
lender in November 2018. I think theyd have been aware an ERC would be payable. If 
they were concerned about the amount of the ERC such that this would change their 
decision whether to move house, they could have contacted their lender and asked how 
much the ERC would be. 
When Mr and Mrs K found a property they wanted to buy, they paid a £500 reservation 
fee straight away as there was no guarantee the property would still be available the next 
day. I appreciate most of the reservation fee was refundable. But I think paying the fee 
suggests Mr and Mrs K were keen to buy the property.
I need to put the additional amount of the ERC (£1,700) into the context of Mr and 
Mrs Ks purchase and financial circumstances. The purchase price of the house Mr and 
Mrs K wanted to buy was about £570,000 and they applied for a mortgage of about 
£427,500. Their previous mortgage balance was about £245,000, so this was a 
significant increase in their borrowing. After the move, Mr and Mrs Ks monthly mortgage 
payments would be about £1,500. PRIMISs records show that after meeting their 
monthly living expenses and loan commitments, Mr and Mrs K had about £6,500 
available to meet their monthly mortgage payments and as disposable income. 
Mr and Mrs K havent said they had difficulty finding the additional £1,700.
I dont doubt Mr and Mrs K would have preferred to pay a lower ERC. But given their wider 
circumstances I think its unlikely theyd have changed their plans to move house if theyd 
been told in September 2019 the ERC was £4,800 rather than £3,200. 
Did Mr and Mrs K suffer a financial loss?
The ERC was always £4,900. PRIMISs error didnt increase the amount Mr and Mrs K had 
to pay, so in that sense they arent out of pocket due to the error. 
I think Mr and Mrs K would likely have gone ahead with the application to the new lender. 
Based on the information in PRIMISs email, this was cheaper overall than staying with their 
previous lender, even after paying the correct ERC. Theyve said they wanted to change 
lenders as the monthly payments were lower. 
There was a relatively short time between Mr and Mrs K being told the ERC was higher and 
the scheduled completion date. I can understand that they didnt want to try and complete a 
porting application in the available time. But, based on the available information, it was 
cheaper overall for them to change lenders. So they didnt lose out as a result. 
Putting things right
PRIMIS gave mortgage advice and recommended a mortgage to Mr and Mrs K. Regardless of Mr and Mrs Ks occupations, I think they were entitled to expect the advice they received 
from PRIMIS to be correct.
While PRIMIS says Mr and Mrs K ought to have known theyd need to pay an ERC if they 
repaid their existing mortgage, they wouldnt necessarily have known the amount or that the 
amount calculated by PRIMIS was incorrect.
Mr and Mrs K say once the error came to light PRIMIS put pressure on them to port their 
mortgage. PRIMIS says it was offering them an alternative to consider. Nonetheless, Mr and 
Mrs K have said they found these calls upsetting. I can understand at this point, only a short 
time before their completion date, they didnt want to start a new porting application and 
might have felt this discussion didnt help them.
I need to take the circumstances into account here, as property sales and purchases are 
often stressful. Mr and Mrs K were no doubt upset to find out the ERC would be more than 
theyd been told in September 2019. While they havent said they had difficulty finding funds 
to pay the additional amount, theyd have needed to take steps to arrange this.
Overall, in the circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable for PRIMIS to pay £300 
compensation to Mr and Mrs K for the upset and trouble its error caused them. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order First Complete Ltd (trading as PRIMIS 
Mortgage Network) to pay £300 to Mr and Mrs K.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman