DRN-1548749
 
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy because she says Post Office Management Service Limited mis-sold her 
a travel insurance policy. 
What happened
 Miss B went to the post office to take out travel insurance. She says that she explained she 
wanted to cover some high value electrical items and opted for the additional gadget cover. 
When she made a claim she was told the gadget cover hadn't been added to her policy and 
she hadn't paid for it. So she received less money back than she was expecting when the 
claim was settled. Miss B made a complaint because she says that she was very clear about 
what level of cover she wanted and thinks the policy wasn't processed properly by the Post 
Office. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didn't uphold the complaint as she thought 
Miss B had enough information to decide if the policy was right for her. She pointed out that 
Miss B's receipt made no mention of additional gadget cover being added. 
Miss B didn't agree and says she remembers what happened during the sale. She says that 
she was told it had been added. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I'm really sorry to hear that Miss B had a number of valuable items stolen. I appreciate that 
it must have been upsetting to find that she didn't have the gadget cover. But I'm not 
upholding her complaint because: 
The receipt Miss B was provided with made no mention of the gadget cover and 
didn't say anything about extras that had been added on. There's also no mention of 
any additional premium being paid on the receipt 
 
The same receipt also prompted Miss B to check the document carefully to make 
sure the details were correct and that she had the right level of cover. It also 
prompted her to check her policy documents. If she hadn't received the full policy 
documents it was open to her to ask for a further copy. There was also a number she 
could call if she had any queries 
 
I think Miss B had a fair opportunity to check or query the level of cover if the gadget 
cover was very important to her for her trip. 
 
My final decision I'm not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman