DRN-3091176
The complaint
O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt remove a signatory from its account when 
this was requested. O is being represented by one of its other signatories  who Ill refer to 
as H.
What happened
Around March 2019, H contacted Barclays to request the removal of another signatory  
who Ill refer to as S  so he could no longer have access to Os bank account. The request 
was made by H over the phone and Barclays followed up by sending an email to H with a 
form he needed to complete and send back.
In November, H noticed a withdrawal from Os account that he didnt recognise. After 
contacting Barclays about this, it came to light that S had withdrawn the funds. So H 
complained because hed asked Barclays several months ago to remove S as a signatory. 
Barclays responded that the change wasnt carried out because H didnt complete and return 
the form that were sent to him. By this point, Barclays had changed its process and was now 
able to remove S as a signatory without the form.
H remained unhappy and wants Barclays to be held liable for the funds that were withdrawn 
by S. After H referred his complaint to this service, our investigator concluded that Barclays 
had acted fairly. The investigator reviewed the call that took place in March and felt it was 
clear that H needed to complete and send back the form before any changes could take 
place. H didnt agree  he says the bank is a large organisation and shouldve taken 
measures straight away to stop S having access to Os account. 
Because H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with the situation H finds himself in, but I wont be asking Barclays to take 
responsibility for the unrecognised withdrawal. Ill explain why below.
H says he was given the impression during the call in March that his request to remove S as 
a signatory on the account had been fulfilled. But I cant agree that Barclays gave him this 
impression. Ive listened to the relevant call and it seems to me that that the Barclays 
representative H spoke to set out the next steps in a reasonably clear way. H was told that a 
form would be emailed to him, which he needs to complete and send back to Barclays. The 
representative talked through what parts of the form H needs to complete and advised it 
would take around 10 working days to process the form. H repeated back what the 
representative told him and hes since provided this service with a copy of the email that was 
sent to him  so Im satisfied he received it. So Im of the opinion that Barclays made the 
next steps clear to H at the time.
H says the email he was sent wasnt marked as urgent and he was going through a stressful 
time, so he overlooked it. But I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for the funds that were 
withdrawn by S because of this. Its clear from the telephone call that H understood what he 
needed to do  given he repeated back the next steps to confirm. So I think H knew an email 
had been sent to him and that he needed to complete and return the attached form in order 
to remove S as a signatory.
H suggests Barclays shouldve done more to prevent S withdrawing the funds - he 
mentioned putting S privileges on hold and that the bank shouldve followed up with him 
when he didnt return the form. But as Barclays explained to H during a later telephone 
conversation, as long as S remained as a signatory on Os account, he could reinstate his 
privileges himself. Moreover, Barclays sent H the forms immediately after his request was 
made, so Im satisfied the bank acted reasonably to fulfil Hs request at the time. I also 
wouldnt expect the bank to have followed up on a request such as this, given H seemed to 
have everything he needed to move the request forward himself and there was nothing more 
the bank could do at this stage. 
I note that Barclays was later able to remove S as a signatory without a need for a form 
because its process had changed. But just because the banks process had changed by the 
time the unrecognised withdrawal took place, it doesnt mean that I can reasonably ask it to 
apply this process retrospectively. At the time H made the request, the process as it was had 
been explained to him and it seems he knew what he needed to do. I can only hold Barclays 
responsible for the process it had in place at the time and theres nothing Ive seen from Hs 
circumstances that make me think the bank shouldve done something differently to support 
him. So I wont be asking Barclays to take responsibility for the loss O has incurred because 
of this. 
In summary, I think Barclays made it clear to H what he needed to do in order to remove S 
as a signatory. Its unclear why H was unable to complete this action before S withdrew 
funds from the account over six months later. Unfortunately, S was able to do so because he 
was still a signatory on the account. Given H didnt complete and return the relevant form, I 
cant fairly conclude that Barclays is responsible for the loss O has incurred. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman