DRN-3762833
The complaint
D, a limited company, complains that Santander UK Plc allowed payments from its account 
that hadnt been authorised.
What happened
D, is represented in this complaint by one of its directors. It complains that the other director 
made two withdrawals for £2,000 from its account in September 2021 without authority. And 
that this was counter to an agreement with Santander about who could have access to the 
account.
Santander said it hadnt made a mistake. It said that the account application form and 
mandate included both directors. The other director was still listed as an active director at 
Companies House. And no evidence in the form of a solicitors letter confirming any change 
to the position for D had been provided at the time. It paid £30 compensation in recognition 
of the number of times the director had called.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. This account was opened 
over the phone in 2018. There is no recording of that call now available. The application 
referred to both directors and both were added to the account mandate. Its accepted that a 
payment card was issued for the other director. So, D reasonably knew the position and no 
action was taken.
The representative of D said he didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. He 
said he hadnt added the other director to the account and he still has her bank card and 
letter. He says he then told Santander she shouldnt be on the mandate. And it must have 
got her details from Companies House as he thinks it told him it did. He was unhappy 
Santander couldnt find the call recordings about this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
D is a separate legal entity to the representative. Im satisfied that as a director of D, the 
representative can refer a complaint for D. However, there are two directors of D who both 
have a significant stake in the company. The director who brings the complaint is in dispute 
with the other director and that other director isnt party to this complaint. Ive considered 
carefully whether I can as a result make a fair decision about this complaint.
I find that I can. And thats because Im satisfied on the information provided by Santander 
that both directors/owners were properly part of the original online application for the 
account. And that both were added to the mandate irrespective of whether correspondence 
was then addressed to the representative. Had Santander received earlier notice of a 
dispute about the management of D by its directors then it could have blocked access to the 
account for both of them until things were resolved by legal means. 
That hadnt been the position or the request by the representative and hed since wanted the 
other director removed from the account. Given her clear status as an active director which I 
think likely what Santander was referring to being shown at Companies House I dont 
consider Santander was wrong to say that it would need legal authority to do so. My 
understanding is the account has now been closed.
I dont have a reasonable basis to find that Santander has made a mistake in allowing these 
disputed payments and so in the administration of the account. Any ongoing dispute about 
these payments would seem fairly to be a civil matter between the current directors and D.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman