DRN-2507363
The complaint
Mr H, as managing director of N, a limited company, complains that National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt provide a printout to show that a replacement standing order from 
the business account had been set up correctly, and that the standing order was then 
cancelled without Mr Hs permission.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr H went to a branch of NatWest to amend standing orders from Ns 
business current account, to pay £140 a fortnight each to him and his wife. However, the 
incorrect reference number was used on the one set up for him, as it had a digit missing 
from the end. This couldnt be cancelled on that day, and so Mr H was given a note to say 
that it should be cancelled the following day and then a new standing order was set up with 
the correct reference number.
Mr H wanted a printout to show the details of the standing orders but was only given these 
for his wifes one.
Mr H complained. He said that he intended on going to a different branch of NatWest the 
following day to try and get the printout and make sure the incorrect standing order had been 
cancelled.
Mr H did this, but still didnt receive the printout for his standing order which he wanted.
NatWest apologised for the issues Mr H had experienced. It said that the corrections had 
been completed and that there were two active standing orders for £140 fortnightly for him 
and Mrs H. NatWest credited the business account with £100 to recognise the 
inconvenience and travel costs incurred.
But Mr H asked why he hadnt been able to get the printout for the standing order. He then 
found that his standing order didnt go through the following month, and so he had to 
manually transfer the payment.
NatWest then said that there was only one standing order set up on the business account, 
which was the one to Mrs H. Again, it apologised for the inconvenience caused and it 
credited the business account with a further £75. NatWest said that Mr H could contact it to 
set up his standing order.
Mr H questioned who had cancelled his standing order and why. He didnt feel that he 
wanted to have to set up the standing order again, as NatWest hadnt explained why it had 
been cancelled.
The investigators opinion
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think NatWest needed to take 
any action as she felt it had done what wed expect in the circumstances. She said that Mr H 
had authorised the cancellation of the standing order, but this hadnt been processed until a 
week later. So, at the time of NatWests initial response to Mr H, there were two active 
standing orders showing on the business account, as this was before the cancellation. She 
said that Mr H would need to contact NatWest directly to get the standing order set up and 
then he would be able to get the printout he wanted to show this.
The investigator said that NatWest had paid N a total of £175, which she thought was fair for 
the inconvenience Mr H as the managing director was caused.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings. He said he hadnt received a copy of 
NatWests response to his later complaint, which had been sent to him in March 2020. He 
didnt believe that NatWest had acted fairly.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in November 2020. In summary, I thought 
the compensation of £175 NatWest had paid N was fair. 
I went through all the details both Mr H and NatWest provided. And I said that I could 
appreciate that Mr H will have been concerned and confused by the problems he had in 
setting up this standing order and had understandably been reluctant to visit a branch to set 
up another.
I felt it may help if I set out what I thought may have happened after considering all the 
evidence, as this might give some understanding of why the standing order to Mr H was 
cancelled, and only Mrs Hs one remained on the business account.
I said I was aware the two new standing orders replaced earlier ones. That may have added 
to some of the confusion in communication. But it didnt directly impact on the problems Mr H 
experienced.
On 11 February 2020, Mr H visited a NatWest branch to set up the two standing orders to 
his account and to his wifes. But his one was set up with a digit missing off the end of the 
reference number.
It seemed that a replacement standing order was set up with the right details but the 
incorrect one couldnt be cancelled that day. There was a print out of the details of the 
incorrect standing order with a hand-written note to cancel it. This same day, Mr H emailed 
NatWest to set out what had happened and to say that he hadnt been given a copy of the 
printout for the correct standing orders.
The following day, 12 February, the incorrect standing order was cancelled from the 
business account. As I understood it, this wouldve left two standing orders still active on the 
account, one for Mr H and the other for Mrs H.
Mr H told us that he returned to the same branch (on the 12 February) and also went to a 
different branch as he wanted the standing order printout. I could also see that he signed an 
instruction to cancel a standing order. The payee name was his and the reference number 
was the correct one, so not the one with the missing digit.On 17 February, NatWest responded to Mr Hs email and apologised for the issues hed 
experienced. It said that all previous lapsed and incorrect standing orders had been 
cancelled, and that there were two active standing orders remaining to him and Mrs H with 
the correct reference numbers.
On 19 February, NatWest processed the cancellation request Mr H had signed on 12 
February, so his active standing order was taken off from that point, leaving just Mrs Hs. 
This meant that the payment Mr H was due from this standing order wasnt made, while 
Mrs Hs was.
Overall, I said I thought the matter had been complicated through the setting up of the 
standing order with the wrong reference number in the first place, and then the subsequent 
process of trying to get this cancelled while leaving only the correct two standing orders 
active.
I didnt think NatWest provided Mr H with incorrect information in its email of 17 February, as 
that was right at that time. His standing order was cancelled two days later on the basis of 
the instruction he gave, presumably on the understanding that this was for the incorrect 
standing order, when that had already been cancelled. I said this because the printout of the 
standing orders from 12 February shows there were two active ones and three cancelled 
ones.
I said it wasnt clear why NatWest was unable to give Mr H the copy of his standing order 
documentation he wanted when he asked for this on 11 and 12 February, as it seemed his 
correct standing order was active at that time. But this now couldnt be provided to him as 
there was no longer an active standing order for him.
NatWest had already paid a total of £175 to the business account for the inconvenience 
caused through this matter, and Mr Hs travel costs. While I appreciated how this impacted 
upon Mr H himself as managing director of H, and that this standing order was intended to 
be paid to him directly, NatWests customer for the purposes of making this complaint is N 
as a company, and that company cant be said to suffer or be caused upset. And I hadnt 
seen that N had been specifically financially disadvantaged. So I didnt think NatWest should 
be required to pay further compensation to N.
I said that, should Mr H now wish to set up another standing order to allow the payment to 
be made from Ns account without him having to do this manually, then he would need to 
contact NatWest directly or go through one of its branches. I said I would hope that NatWest 
would ensure that the correct details are used when this is processed, as I could appreciate 
that Mr H may be concerned about similar issues happening again.
The responses
NatWest said that it had nothing further to add to my provisional decision.
Mr H responded to say that he hadnt received an explanation of why his salary hadnt been 
paid initially, and that he didnt receive this until our involvement. He said this fell short of the 
service NatWest should have provided, and this hadnt been recognised in my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I do appreciate Mr Hs point about the time it took for him to receive an explanation about 
why the standing order payment wasnt made. However, as I said in my provisional decision, 
I think the matter was complicated by the process of trying to put right the initial mistake with 
the standing order. I say this because different branches were involved, and NatWest had 
completed the instruction to cancel the standing order, when the incorrect one had already 
been cancelled. So I think this is likely to have caused confusion about what had happened 
and the reason why the standing order hadnt gone through.
And overall, my findings remain that I think the £175 NatWest has paid to N, as its customer, 
is fair compensation for the inconvenience caused by the matter.
My final decision
My decision is that National Westminster Plc has already paid N £175 in recognition of the 
issues of setting up the standing order, and I think that represents fair settlement to this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman