DRN-4003476
The complaint
Mr C complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) didnt contact him prior to the maturity of 
his personal pension plan (PPP). He thinks he may have suffered a financial loss because of 
events which affected the PPP during the period in which he was eligible to draw his 
benefits. He also complains about the loss of the investment growth he could have received 
if the funds had been invested into his new plan at maturity, and about the worry and 
concern he suffered as ReAssure didnt properly communicate with him over a period of 
around six months.
What happened
Mr C had held a rebate only PPP with ReAssure since 1989. In February 2014 he moved 
to France and for the first year after his move he used a postal forwarding service  which 
passed on mail that had been sent to his previous UK address. During this time Mr C says 
he wrote to all the firms that he received forwarded mail from so that they could note his 
change of address. One of those letters was to ReAssure.
ReAssure says it sent an annual PPP statement to Mr C at his UK address in 2015 but the 
letter was returned as gone away. It says it continued to try to trace Mr C but was 
unsuccessful. 
Mr C was 65 in February 2020 and entitled to draw his state pension the following February 
at age 66  and assumed this was when he could take his benefits from the ReAssure PPP. 
But upon further investigation of his entire retirement provision he became aware that he 
was entitled to draw the benefits of the PPP from February 2020. So, in November 2020  
as he hadnt received any correspondence about drawing his benefits, he contacted 
ReAssure. Mr C said he couldnt get through to ReAssure on the phone and didnt receive a 
prompt reply to his emails, but was simply informed  some months later  that he couldnt 
set up a new drawdown plan with ReAssure as he was no longer a UK resident. It said he 
was only able to draw his fund in full or transfer it to another provider if he wished to use a 
more flexible drawdown type plan. 
Mr C said he was talking with a retired adviser at this point, who suggested he complain 
about what had happened. Mr C contacted ReAssure and said that, in advance of receiving 
his UK state pension, as he was now resident in France, he looked into his other retirement 
provision and learnt that he was entitled to the benefits of his ReAssure pension on his 65th 
birthday.  Since he had contacted ReAssure in November 2020, which was eight months 
after his birthday, he hadnt received any communication about his request to draw his 
benefits and was becoming increasingly worried. He asked ReAssure to pay him his pension 
benefits as soon as possible. 
ReAssure didnt uphold the complaint. It said its records showed no suggestion of a 
notification from Mr C about a change of address. It confirmed that following the return of a 
letter it sent in February 2015 it had been unsuccessful in trying to trace him and so didnt 
notify him of his plans maturity in 2020, but instead extended the retirement date to age 75. 
ReAssure accepted that it hadnt called Mr C back when it promised to, although it said that 
it was unable to answer his question about confirming the most suitable option for him as it 
couldnt give advice.
It sent him a cheque for £215 (£200 plus £15 to cover exchange rates) as compensation for 
the service errors it had made.
 
In February 2021 another adviser requested details of Mr Cs PPP and began the process of 
transferring it into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with a new provider. By 
August 2021 the transfer completed with a fund value of £82,659.30. Mr C then invested 
within a FTSE European fund into the SIPP.
Mr C wasnt happy with the outcome of his complaint, so he brought it to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. But he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
said that, while it would have been good practice for ReAssure to have tried to contact Mr C, 
it wasnt obliged to do so. So he didnt think ReAssure had caused Mr C to suffer any 
financial loss. But he did think that ReAssure had made some errors and thought the £200 it 
had paid for the distress and inconvenience it had caused was fair and reasonable. 
Mr C didnt think the investigator had fully appreciated the worry, stress, and frustration hed 
suffered over three months worth of poor customer care from ReAssure, as well as the 
problems caused from not being able to contact it through its website. He said ReAssure had 
failed to provide him with his retirement options for over six months after the maturity date of 
his plan which had a big impact on his situation. He also didnt think the investigator had 
considered the fact that hed been forced to take out a SIPP when he finally drew the 
benefits as ReAssure didnt allow him all the options it had said were available. He said he 
would have chosen a flexible retirement income option by February 2020, if hed been 
offered the opportunity by ReAssure.
 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view. He maintained that he didnt think 
ReAssure was responsible for Mr Cs address not being changed and he didnt think it had 
denied Mr C the opportunity to take his pension in a tax efficient way. He said ReAssure no 
longer offered flexible drawdown to non UK customers by the time Mr C wanted to draw his 
benefits and it gave him the option to transfer to another provider and take up a flexible 
retirement option. He thought that ReAssure couldnt be responsible for any issues  such 
as investment loss, which occurred as a result of transferring to a new provider and product.  
  
But Mr C remained of the view that ReAssures actions had caused him to lose the option of 
using its drawdown facility and that as a result he calculated a current investment loss of 
around £3,000. He said he wanted his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so it was 
passed to me to review. 
Mr Cs SIPP is currently invested with around 45% across two funds but with around 55% in 
cash.
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision I said that ReAssure ought to have done more to contact Mr C 
before his PPP ended and I thought this would have allowed Mr C to access his benefits 
earlier. 
I thought ReAssure should compensate Mr C by comparing the current value of his plan with 
its notional value had he been able to access his benefits earlier based on two different 
scenarios. 
I made the following points in support of my findings:Id reached my provisional decision without information Id requested previously from 
ReAssure. If this information was provided after my provisional decision, I might need 
to reconsider the outcome depending on any new evidence.
Regarding the change of address after Mr C moved to France, I couldnt reasonably 
dispute what either party had said about that matter so I looked at what I thought 
should have happened after 2015, and who ought to have been the primary driver in 
confirming Mr Cs new correct address.
Although there was an argument to say that Mr C might have checked that his 
address had been changed with all the various businesses he said he notified, I dont 
think it was practical to expect that to have happened. And by overlooking that he 
hadnt received his annual pension statements after 2015 Mr C was only causing 
himself a future problem by being unaware of the value of his retirement provision. 
So I didnt think Mr C was obliged to have done anything more to ensure his change 
of address had been actioned by the various businesses involved  including 
ReAssure.   
However, I thought ReAssure had been aware that Mr C had moved and had 
received a gone away notice from a letter it sent in 2015 which confirmed that 
position. So, as it knew it needed to contact Mr C within five years to provide his 
retirement options, I thought ReAssure should have done more to contact Mr C.
I thought that Mr Cs situation meant that, had ReAssure tried to contact him using 
generally accepted tracing services, it was more likely than not that it would have 
traced him and established a line of communication. I thought that would have led to 
Mr C receiving the pre-retirement packs which would have included his PPP benefit 
options.
I thought Mr C would have taken his benefits at the earliest opportunity if advised of 
his pending retirement date. But the reality of the situation was that his preferred 
method of drawing benefits flexibly was no longer available from ReAssure for 
someone resident overseas - when he finally did request them in 2021.  As a result 
Mr C had to transfer his PPP to another provider.
So I said that ReAssure should calculate whether Mr C had suffered a financial loss 
by not being able to draw his benefits on or around his original maturity date. I said 
the calculation should look at the position had Mr C been able to drawdown flexibly 
with ReAssure on that date, or the other situation where he had to transfer elsewhere 
to accommodate a drawdown solution.
Responses to my provisional decision  
ReAssure made the following points in response:
It wasnt possible to provide evidence of the pre-retirement packs and illustrations it 
was obliged to send Mr C prior to his normal retirement date (NRD), as these had 
been placed on hold at the time as it didnt have a record of Mr Cs address. It 
provided a screenshot to show that only data records existed for the documents with 
them not being printable. 
It provided a copy of the document from 2015 which had been returned gone away. 
It was unable to find any evidence of having tried to trace Mr C, although it thought it 
would have followed its usual process of making a bulk request on an independent 
system. But it wasnt able to confirm this happened in Mr Cs case.
Its first contact with Mr C after the 2015 letter had been returned was his email of 
November 2020.
Mr C said that:Following my provisional decision and proposed solution for redress, he had a better 
understanding of how to work out fair compensation. He had calculated a reduction in 
his SIPP value of over £5,000 from September 2021 to date. He provided a number 
of documents to show that from an initial investment of £82,632 into his SIPP  and 
allowing for income received of £4,000  the most recent value he had was £73,533.
He explained the reason behind the investment choices he had to make regarding 
his new SIPP. But he thought we ought to compare the current value of his SIPP 
against one of the top performing pension firms in 2019 as he thought thats where 
he would have invested in February 2020  given enough time before the NRD. He 
questioned to what extent Id considered the firm he would have selected as he 
thought it was most likely he would have chosen the best performing and most 
appropriate plan on the market instead of simply reinvesting with ReAssure.  
He thought it would be fairer if either I, or an independent source, calculated the 
financial loss involved. He thought that by allowing ReAssure to carry out the 
calculation he might not be treated entirely fairly.
He thought I would have understood  from all the evidence provided with his 
complaint  why he retained little trust in ReAssure. He thought it would be simple 
enough to use an independent provider of fund prices and performance to carry out 
any required calculation.
He wanted me to reconsider the level of compensation awarded for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused over a period stretching back two years.
He has had to self-manage his SIPP because of the high costs and charges involved 
with using an international SIPP adviser.  He says he has to constantly monitor the 
funds hes chosen and isnt aware of what he should do when funds fall in value.
He doesnt believe any redress can be paid into his SIPP as he isnt resident in the 
UK. He says he hasnt paid any tax in the UK or as a resident overseas since 2015 
and doesnt think its likely this will change due to his lifestyle. So he wants payment 
to be made directly to him and without the deduction of any income tax. 
He was also concerned about other victims of such errors and wanted the service to 
make comments on whether there should be a legal requirement for firms to trace 
people. He provided a link which he said gives his overseas address and phone 
number and would have taken just two minutes to google. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I see no reason to depart from my original findings. But I have carefully 
considered the number of additional points raised by both parties  which Ill answer below 
alongside my summary of the overall situation.
The change of address
The central aspect of this complaint lies with the change of address when Mr C moved to 
France in 2014. He says he used a mail redirection service for the first year of moving away 
and took the opportunity to contact all the organisations that he received forwarded mail 
from, to make them aware of his new address. He says this included ReAssure.
 
And indeed, had this request been acknowledged and actioned I dont think there would now 
be a complaint along these lines. However, ReAssure says it has no record of being advised 
of an updated address in 2015 and had a letter it sent Mr C that year returned to it with the 
message gone away. So it says it no longer had a current address for Mr C from that point 
and didnt send any further correspondence to him  but extended the NRD of his plan to age 75.
Theres no documentary evidence to confirm that Mr C had contacted ReAssure  so I 
couldnt reasonably say ReAssure had failed to act on his instruction. But at the same time I 
have no reason to dispute Mr Cs assertion that all the organisations updated his address 
and continued to correspond with him. So Ive looked at who I think had more responsibility 
and resources to ensure Mr Cs address was updated correctly. 
Having been persuaded that I think Mr C did make other organisations aware of his updated 
address, I dont think he was obliged to do more to ensure those actions had been carried 
out. I think he was entitled to assume the information would have been received and 
actioned. I did consider whether Mr C ought to have been more aware of not receiving 
correspondence from certain businesses  which might have alerted him to the fact his 
address hadnt been updated. But with the upheaval of moving abroad I think Mr C could be 
forgiven for overlooking that matter  and it would seem that it was only ReAssure that Mr C 
didnt hear from again, which would support the idea that he simply wasnt aware of missing 
information at that time. 
But I think ReAssure did have more of a responsibility to trace one of its customers  
particularly with the resources available to it through the various generally accepted tracing 
systems. I note the DWP tracing system uses national insurance numbers for example  
which I think would have been very likely to have traced Mr Cs whereabouts from 2015. I 
say that because Mr C has told us that he made everyone aware of his new address 
including the department responsible for his UK state pension, so I think its likely that Mr C 
would have been a straightforward candidate for tracing. 
Indeed, ReAssure did tell us that it would have tried to trace Mr Cs whereabouts but was 
unable to provide any evidence of it doing so. It says it would have used a bulk tracing 
request with an independent service it uses  so theres no suggestion that it wouldnt have 
tried to trace Mr C in some way. But I cant discount the fact that Mr C was left off a bulk 
request list or that the trace wasnt carried out for him for some particular reason. Either way 
I take the view that it was more likely than not that, had ReAssure made a reasonable effort 
to trace Mr C, he would have been located by one of the services and ReAssure would have 
been provided with Mr Cs updated address details. Mr C has confirmed that he has only 
held one address since moving to France and he has even demonstrated that his address 
and contact details can be found through a simple internet search. 
Of course, I accept that there was no regulatory requirement for ReAssure to try to contact 
Mr C, but as he was only five years from his NRD I think, not least from a treating 
customers fairly requirement as set out in the regulators handbook, it was reasonable for 
ReAssure to have done more to trace Mr C. And if it had tried to trace him I believe it would 
have been provided with his details before the NRD of his PPP  which I think would have 
started a chain of correspondence between ReAssure and Mr C in advance of the date he 
was eligible to draw his pension benefits.  
And looking at Mr Cs actions when he was finally provided with an illustrative pack of his 
retirement benefits I think he would have acted with sufficient speed to ensure the benefits 
could be paid  or transferred if necessary, by his NRD.
What would have happened?
Ive said that I believe ReAssure could have done more to trace Mr C and that it would 
therefore have been provided with his details prior to the end of the PPP term. So Ive gone on to consider what Mr C might have done in February 2020, considering the options that 
might have been available at that point and the actions he later took. 
Mr C has been consistent in confirming that he would have taken the flexible drawdown 
option whenever his pension benefits were available. And his subsequent actions in 2021 
would support this idea. But when ReAssure did eventually issue Mr C with a retirement 
pack one of the alternatives was that he could leave your pension pot invested and make 
withdrawals when you can. That would suggest a flexible drawdown type solution along the 
lines of what Mr C preferred. However, due to changes that occurred during the Brexit 
transitional period, it would seem that Mr C didnt qualify to transfer his PPP benefits into a 
ReAssure drawdown plan due to him being a non-resident of the UK. 
This was supported by a letter ReAssure produced on 23 December 2020 which said - about 
the option to leave the money invested, if you live in the UK you can do this with ReAssure 
by transferring to our retirement account. But this was further complicated by a Retirement 
Account product booklet dated December 2020 which noted, you need to have a UK bank 
account and be a UK resident to take out a Retirement Account. Residency rules are 
complicated, but youre normally considered resident in the UK if you spend at least half of 
the year in the UK. If you think that you may not be a UK resident you can find further details 
about residency at www.gov.uk.
So this means that Mr C may have had two options open to him depending on when 
ReAssure introduced the ruling around non UK residents. So what Ive set out below is what 
I think would have happened based on two scenarios Mr M would have had if hed applied to 
take his pension benefits so they would have been payable on his original NRD. 
Mr Cs suggestions regarding redress
Mr C made a number of points relating to the level of redress he thought he should receive. 
He provided a number of documents which showed the performance of his SIPP and he also 
thought we should use a better performing SIPP as a benchmark for the calculation. He said 
thats because, given an extended length of time to consider his options in 2020, he would 
have carried out more extensive research and chosen a top performing fund. Mr C has also 
questioned the wisdom of allowing ReAssure  who he has lost faith in  to perform the 
redress calculation. He wants us to appoint an independent firm to do the calculation using 
SIPP performance charts taken from independent information sources.
I have some sympathy for Mr Cs position here as he has quite clearly lost confidence in 
ReAssures ability to administer his plan, and I can understand why he would want an 
independent organisation to carry out the calculation. I can also appreciate why he would 
want the comparison of funds to be with a better performing fund/portfolio.  
But we dont have the resources to carry out these calculations ourselves or to appoint and 
pay for an independent source to do so. We havent been given those powers from the 
regulator under our remit. However, we would expect a large organisation like ReAssure, 
with the systems it has in place, to be able to perform such calculations. Theres no evidence 
to support the claim it would act any way other than fairly in such a situation. However, Ive 
instructed ReAssure to provide Mr C with details of its calculation in a simple, clear format. 
That means that if he believes its made an error in the calculation, he can appoint and pay 
for his own independent firm to check its accuracy.
I have also considered Mr Cs point about which funds to use as a comparison in the 
calculation, but I cant support his request to compare against the best performing funds at 
the time he transferred  nor for the losses hes suffered within his SIPP. We wouldnt 
normally consider upholding a claim for investment losses unless it was as a result of the suitability of investment advice, or as a result of poor administration. In this case Mr C made 
his own investment decision regarding the SIPP funds, so any losses need to be looked at 
as simply the usual falls and rises that happen to all investments. And I dont think it would 
be fair for me to tell ReAssure to carry out the calculation using the best performing funds 
from 2020 as a benchmark. 
Its not possible, without hindsight, to know what Mr C might have done in February 2020 
given his circumstances at the time. So Ive had to take into account what Mr C actually did 
in 2021 when he was given the same opportunity to choose which funds he wanted to invest 
in within his new SIPP. 
I appreciate this isnt a perfect situation and I cant discount Mr C doing something different 
when confronted with the same situation some months earlier. But my role here is to put 
Mr C as close as possible to the position hed now be in had ReAssure taken reasonable 
steps to trace his whereabouts and provided him with his pre-retirement pack and options to 
draw his pension benefits  before his original NRD. What Ive set out below, in my view, 
achieves that outcome as far as possible.   
Putting things right
I asked ReAssure to confirm whether the rules that prevented it being able to provide Mr C 
with a flexible drawdown solution in 2021 were already in place at the earlier time when he 
was eligible to draw his benefits and would have done had he been aware. But it hasnt 
provided that answer. So Ive had to set out the two scenarios that might have occurred in 
February 2020 when Mr C turned 65.
Thats because I cant be sure what Mr C would have done in each situation. Its my view 
that, if ReAssure was able to offer a flexible drawdown plan in 2020, Mr C would more likely 
than not have agreed to go ahead investing into funds in line with his attitude to risk. I say 
that because Mr C has told us that the costs and charges involved in seeking advice to 
transfer to another provider for a non UK resident were prohibitive, and he was unwilling to 
pay them when he did transfer and take out a SIPP in 2021. 
So I cant reasonably say that he would have paid them in 2020 either and so, whether 
ReAssure was able to give him advice or not at the time, it would only have been to proceed 
with its own drawdown plan and invest in funds which I think would have been similarly to 
the ones Mr C eventually ended up invested into with his new SIPP.  
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if ReAssure had traced his whereabouts after 2015 and provided him with the 
appropriate pre-retirement information prior to the original maturity date of his PPP, which 
was February 2020.
Scenario A  Mr C would have been able to transfer into a drawdown plan with ReAssure
Had this been an option for him at the time, I think Mr C would have remained with ReAssure
and taken out a flexible drawdown plan with it. 
But I also need to take into account what Mr C actually did once hed become aware of the 
fact that he could have converted his benefits earlier  which was to transfer out of 
ReAssure entirely and invest into a new fund with a new provider. I think he would have invested into funds within ReAssure which had a similar risk profile to 
those he was then invested into within the SIPP. And I think this period of loss assessment 
should run from the date at which Mr C would reasonably have transferred into that 
ReAssure drawdown plan until the date at which he then transferred to the SIPP. I am 
satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given 
Mr C's circumstances and objectives at the time.
What must ReAssure do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, ReAssure must:
Compare the actual value of Mr C's pension plan at the date of the transfer to the SIPP with 
the notional value if it had remained with ReAssure, but had been invested in the similar fund 
with ReAssure  to that date of transfer to the SIPP. If the actual value is greater than the 
notional value, no compensation is payable.
If the notional value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
ReAssure should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If ReAssure is unable to pay the total amount into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But if compensation is to be paid directly to Mr C, there should be no 
reduction to notionally allow for income tax. Thats because, based on what Mr C has told 
me about his tax position, I accept that its more likely than not he need never pay tax on this 
income. In other words, for any loss identified, ReAssure should pay Mr C the full amount, 
with no notional deduction being made, as I dont believe he would incur tax liabilities on this 
income due to his financial circumstances going forward. 
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date)
SIPP Still exists and 
liquidFlexible
drawdown plan
with ReAssure
invested as
follows:
Whatever
ReAssure fund
would have
closely 
matched
the SIPP fundDate of 
maturity of PPP 
(February 
2020)Date of the 
transfer to the 
SIPP.
Additional investment growth
In order to ensure any losses are brought up to date ReAssure should apply the same 
percentage of loss that Mr C may have suffered at the date of transfer to the current value of 
his SIPP as at the date of settlement.
I think the payment of £200 that ReAssure made to Mr C for not responding to him when he
first made contact in November 2020, and its failure to provide illustrations on request  is
fair and reasonable.Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional value
This is the value of Mr Cs investment had it been invested into a drawdown plan with 
ReAssure.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
ReAssure totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
notional value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr C would have invested in a fund similar to that which he invested in within the
subsequent SIPP.
Scenario B  Mr C wouldnt have been able to transfer into a ReAssure drawdown plan
However, if Mr C wouldnt have been able to invest into any kind of flexible drawdown plan 
with ReAssure before the PPP matured, then Mr C would have had to transfer and take out 
a similar product with another provider in the way that he did. In that case, the comparison 
should be the notional value of the new SIPP had it been started one week after the PPP 
matured against the actual value of that plan as at the date of any final decision along these 
lines. If there is a loss the previous explanation of how the compensation should be paid 
should be followed.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint against ReAssure Limited. My decision is that ReAssure Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above and should provide details of its 
calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman