DRN-1617624
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) sent his overdraft debt for 
recovery after asking it for help with his financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr W had a current account with an arranged overdraft of £2000. He had reached the 
overdraft limit but couldnt keep up with the monthly charges and repayments. He messaged 
RBS through its website asking it to close the account, freeze the interest and agree a 
repayment plan with him. 
RBS replied, explaining how he could close the account and gave contact details of its 
collections and customer service teams to help him with a repayment plan. However, Mr W 
says RBS sold his debt to a debt collection company without actually helping him.
Our investigator didnt think RBS had done anything wrong so he didnt uphold the 
complaint. He was satisfied that RBS had responded appropriately to Mr W. He thought RBS 
had provided the right amount of information to allow Mr W to progress his request for help 
with his overdraft. Our investigator saw that Mr W had arranged an appointment at an RBS 
branch but he didnt attend or make a new appointment.
Mr W thinks RBS was quick to sell on his debt but our investigator said it still held his 
account and the third party agent was helping RBS recover the funds. RBS hadnt sold the 
debt. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Ws complaint that RBS didnt let him know about the state of 
his account. He saw that RBS had sent letters to the address it had for Mr W, but he had 
moved house without letting RBS know. Mr W thought RBS couldve emailed or messaged 
him but our investigator was satisfied that it did enough. As Mr W was already aware of the 
position his account was in, our investigator thought that it didnt matter whether he received 
the letters or not. 
In summary, our investigator thought RBS had treated Mr W positively and with sympathy 
and it wasnt under any obligation to freeze interest or withdraw any charges.
Mr W didnt agree. He remained of the view that RBS sold his debt without realising he 
wouldve made payments at the earliest opportunity if hed known it was going to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr W will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.Firstly, its important to point out that theres no dispute about the overdraft amount owed or 
any charges applied; that Mr W didnt attend the appointment to discuss repayment, or that 
he didnt provide RBS with his new address.
Ive looked at what RBS shouldve done under the circumstances, what it did, and whether 
that was reasonable. Id expect RBS to treat Mr W positively and sympathetically, to make 
sure he was aware of the status of his account, and to offer him repayment options. 
Mr W was aware of the status of his account because he contacted RBS about his overdraft. 
RBS sent letters to him but he didnt receive them. Mr W thinks RBS shouldnt have sent 
letters to an address it knew he didnt have access to. However, theres no evidence to show 
that he told RBS he had moved away from the only address it held for him. While I realise Mr 
W mightve acted sooner had he received the letters about recovery action, he didnt keep 
his contact details up to date so its not fair to say RBS did something wrong.
RBS acknowledged his request for help and asked him to contact its collections team by 
phone or visit a branch to discuss options. Its clear Mr W was aware of these options 
because he made an appointment with a branch, which he didnt keep. He didnt make 
another appointment so RBS wasnt able to discuss options with him.
RBS didnt freeze the interest as Mr W requested. While this is an option available to it, RBS 
isnt obliged to do so. It applied the interest to the account in line with the terms and 
conditions and they remain payable by Mr W.
The final point is that Mr W still thinks RBS sold the debt to a third party at a lower value. He 
thinks he should only have to repay the lower value. Ive checked with RBS and it confirmed 
again that it didnt sell the debt:
We have not sold the debt on.  It is currently with our debt collection agents who act on our 
behalf in recovering the outstanding amount.
I have no reason to doubt what RBS says.
In summary, I think RBS offered assistance and did everything it shouldve done. I dont 
think it treated Mr W unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14July2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman