DRN-3586673
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that TSB Bank plc closed its account without notice or 
reason, and wouldnt communicate with it and allow it access to past correspondence.
What happened
Bs current account with TSB was opened in July 2021. B was unhappy that it was asked 
further, and it says unreasonable questions about its trading. And that the current account 
and a savings account were closed in November 2021. This meant it couldnt pay tax and 
salaries. B says it couldnt contact the TSB complaints department by phone and that it was 
ignored.
TSB said it hadnt made any mistake. It said that it had contacted B about some questions 
and had sent it an email and tried to contact it. The account was blocked on 8 September 
2021 and a further email sent. TSB didnt receive any further contact and the account was 
closed on 11 November 2021. It said it had followed its process and notified B.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. TSB had asked B how 
much money it was likely to pay into a savings account quarterly. And it had said £50,000. 
That was inconsistent with the information it had given about its annual turnover of 
£150,000. And B had told TSB that these were estimates and on 28 August 2021 that it 
wouldnt be answering any more questions about this. TSB had sent an email on 31 August 
2021 saying it would need to close the account if this wasnt resolved and it notes trying to 
call B. It blocked the current account and sent an email giving B 60 days to contact it about 
this. When it received no reply, the account was closed, and a cheque sent for the closing 
balance. He thought that it had acted in line with the terms and conditions. And that sending 
a notice by email was acceptable as this was the way B had been receiving correspondence. 
It was also a matter for TSB to decide how to operate including contact with the complaints 
department. Hed shared the information wed relied upon to make our decision and said that 
B could still contact the Information Commissioners Office if it thought TSB hadnt complied 
with a request for information.
B didnt agree. It said that it had been at a disadvantage in not seeing the information and 
that the encrypted email history couldnt be viewed again. It thought that its responses to 
TSB were reasonable and answered to the best of its ability given it had been asked for 
approximate figures. And that TSB had been asking senseless questions and that if the 
account was closed for this reason or spite then this was unfair. TSB was required to give a 
notice to close an account by letter and it didnt do so. And B wasnt able to speak to the 
complaints department and its requests werent addressed.
B generally thought the terms and conditions of the account were unfair and all banks 
broadly the same. We had interpreted them in Bs favour and the account had been closed 
for no reason. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to set out that this service isnt the regulator and so we dont have a role in setting the 
processes for TSB. In addition, we provide informal dispute resolution and arent a court. 
What happened.
B explains that it had started the account opening process in April 2021. And Ive seen that 
in July 2021 it additionally set out that it needed a savings account and was asked how 
much it would be depositing and the source. It answered £50,000 quarterly and that the 
source would be business profits. That would have meant some £200,000 a year which was 
more than the earlier figure of £150,000 B had given for annual turnover. This was put to B.
On 8 August 2021 B responded that the amount was an estimate and could be more or less. 
And that estimate had been on the higher side. On 28 August 2021 B said that the turnover 
figure was an estimate and a director was clearly irritated at the questions ending by saying 
I will not be answering any more of your emails. On 31 August 2021 TSB emailed and said 
that if B didnt clarify this the account would be closed. It notes trying to call about this but 
not getting an answer. On 8 September 2021 it emailed B to say:
Weve tried to get in touch regarding the Business Current Account you recently opened. 
To comply with regulatory requirements, we need further information or documentation 
from you.
As we havent received the information or documentation required, this email is to let you 
know that we need close this account. Please accept this email as our formal notification 
that we will be closing this account on 08/11/2021.
and that
If you would like the account to remain open, please get in touch.
As set out above the account was first restricted and then closed and the significant balance 
sent to B by cheque. There hadnt been any transactions on the account since the email and 
until the attempted direct debit to pay tax after the account had been closed.
Operating an account and the terms and conditions
It was reasonably a commercial matter for TSB to decide whether to operate an account for 
B. And for it to ensure that it complied with relevant regulations and legislation in line with its 
processes. And in applying for an account B was subject to the terms and conditions. I will 
be looking at whether these were fairly applied in these particular circumstances.
TSB clearly had a question about what the source of funds for savings from B was. And 
where this was coming from if not from profits. I think that was a legitimate enquiry for it to 
decide to make to ensure it knew its customer. And while B could only give estimates I think 
that those estimates could reasonably be expected to be internally consistent. I bear in mind 
in any expectation of what could be provided that B is a limited company, and these werent 
insignificant amounts of money.
I dont think that B could otherwise than think that TSB wasnt satisfied with its answers and 
B made a conscious choice not to co-operate further. And TSB had alerted B to the likely consequences of this in that the account would be closed. 
I will refer to what I think are the most relevant terms and conditions. I note that at clause 
13:10 these state that:
We may terminate the Agreement immediately if any of the following occur:
a) if any information you have given us or give us in the future (whether in connection 
with this Agreement or not) is inaccurate
h)  if you fail at any time to meet any checks required by law or regulation...
These go on to state in clause 13:11:
Subject to clause 13:10 we may terminate this Agreement by giving you at least two 
months written notice.
I dont have reason to disagree with Bs interpretation of clause 21 that a written notice under 
clause 13:11 would be required to be sent by facsimile or sent by postal letter. 
However, I think here that TSBs email of 8 September 2021 as quoted from above can be 
interpreted as stating that the reason for closure was covered by clause 13:10. It could have 
decided to terminate the agreement at that point but it gave B 60 days to address the issue. 
So, I dont think that written notice was technically required. And moreover, Im looking here 
at what is fair and reasonable. B hadnt complied with the information requirements and was 
by virtue of the emails reasonably made aware of the consequences and chose not to take 
any action to address this. Having balanced all the factors, I dont find that theres a 
reasonable basis for me to require the account to be reinstated and/or for compensation in 
these circumstances as B asks.
Responding to B
TSB issued a final response to the complaint on 22 November 2021 which provided referral 
rights to this service. I dont have a basis to say it was wrong not to take phone calls from B 
or to respond further after that by any particular date. Or to say how its encrypted emails 
history should operate. But the information Ive relied on in making my assessment has now 
been shared with B and it has had the opportunity to comment on this before my decision.
I appreciate that the directors of B will be disappointed by my assessment. B remains free to 
pursue this matter in court if it doesnt accept my decision subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman