DRN-3450331
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted his account without any warning.
What happened
Mr B has a HSBC current account and he is based overseas. He says that HSBC suddenly 
restricted his account without any warning or any form of communication, which left him 
unable to use all of the account related facilities. Mr B says he incurred substantial call costs 
in order to find out what happened to his account and he needed to spend a lot of time to get 
this resolved, this also caused him anxiety, stress and inconvenience. Although Mr B had 
received a phone call from HSBC, they hadnt told him what it was specifically about. Mr B 
complained to HSBC.
HSBC partially upheld his complaint. They said that they needed to ensure a transfer which 
was attempted by Mr B was genuinely made by him, but due to time difference, the call they 
made to him was at 10:46pm (Mr Bs time). As Mr B said he was busy, the call handler 
asked him if he was able to go through verification to discuss his online activity or whether 
he wanted to call them back, but Mr B said he wouldnt call them back. As a result of Mr B 
not confirming the transaction was genuine on the same day, HSBC reversed the transaction 
and his online access was restricted.
HSBC said that they hadnt sent Mr B a text message to reiterate to him that he needed to 
call them back and that when the transaction was reversed, their system notes suggested 
they attempted to call him about this, but the notes were placed in error. They also said the 
telephone line had been disconnected more than once when Mr B was trying to resolve the 
issue. HSBC said that there had been no impact to Mr Bs telephone banking and debit card 
and that no other bill payments were held by them to be checked. 
HSBC offered Mr B £30 compensation for the errors, but Mr B said there would be a 
difference in the exchange rate from when he attempted his transfer, to when the transfer 
was made (although he said this would be minimal), and that the phone calls would have 
cost £35-£40. So HSBC increased the compensation to £100 and paid this into Mr Bs 
account. Mr B brought his complaint to our service. He said he wanted a minimum of £300 
compensation to resolve his complaint.
Mr B sent us his phone bills to evidence his call costs to HSBC. Our investigator forwarded 
this to HSBC who calculated that his telephone costs he made to them were roughly £32 
after the exchange rate had been applied. Our investigator said he felt the compensation 
that HSBC offered was fair as it would cover the call costs and the errors made.
Our investigator explained that HSBCs terms and conditions allow them to stop a payment if 
there are concerns about the payment, to protect Mr Bs account. He said HSBC did not 
have to give him a call back if they had concerns about his account as they had already 
given him a call about this, but Mr B would not go through verification with them. 
Our investigator said that it didnt appear that any further calls wouldve been any more 
successful. And blocking the account seemed suitable as it would prompt a customer
to contact the bank, which seemed to have worked as the restrictions on the account were 
applied on 30 August 2021, but they were removed on 1 September 2021 after Mr B 
contacted them. 
Mr B asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said he had made several 
transfers to the company he attempted to transfer money to previously, so HSBC should not 
have prevented the payment, as they had not suspended his account previously when these 
transfers had been made, despite some of them being larger than the transaction he 
attempted, so he felt the terms and conditions were not applicable in this instance. 
Mr B said that a manager he spoke to confirmed to him that the original call handler had left 
a note to give him a call before any action should be taken on the account. He said he was 
told that the notes say they attempted to call him but were unsuccessful, but they hadnt tried 
to call him. He said that he believed HSBC did not follow their internal policies and 
procedures and if they had followed up with further communication as they noted they 
should have done, then his account and related services would not have been affected and 
he wouldnt have had to spend his time and money to rectify the situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive considered whether HSBC were fair to query the attempted transfer to Mr B, instead of 
allowing the payment through without any further checks. Ive thought about what hes said 
about him making several similar transactions previously to the third party company and 
some of them have been for a higher amount. But Im satisfied that HSBC were entitled to 
make further checks on the payment to protect Mr Bs account, even if this may 
inconvenience him.
I say this as HSBC have to follow regulations to help protect customers accounts against 
fraud and scams. Fraud and scam trends can be fluid, in the sense that they are highly likely 
to change over time. So what may have been deemed as a lower risk previously can 
become more of a risk over time and vice versa. So the fact that HSBC may have not 
flagged previous payments to the company he intended to transfer the money to, is not an 
indication that they should always allow these types of payments to go through without 
further checks. So Im satisfied that HSBC did not act outside of their terms and conditions in 
trying to verify that Mr B genuinely made this payment.
Next Ive listened to what happened on the initial phone call and the subsequent account 
online restriction. While Im satisfied that if Mr B had verified himself, the transfer would have 
been processed and none of the subsequent issues would have occurred, Mr B was busy at 
the time and he did not want to verify himself. The call handler attempts to get him to 
complete security a number of times and asks him a number of times to call them back on 
the telephone number on the back of the card. Mr B tells her Im not going to call you back, 
everything is fine. The call handler tells Mr B we need to take a decision on this activity 
today sir. 
So Im persuaded that Mr B was made aware that there was a problem on his account. And 
while he thought everything was fine on his account, the call handler inferred that it wasnt 
fine by asking him to call them back when he wasnt busy, if he wasnt going to complete the verification process on the call. She also told him they needed to take a decision on the 
activity that day. So without explicitly telling Mr B that his account would be restricted if he 
didnt speak to them about his account activity, it was explained that a decision needed to be 
taken that day.
So it would have been reasonable for Mr B to call HSBC when he wasnt busy. But Im not 
sure if this would have changed what happened. I say this because it was 10:46pm in the 
country where Mr B was based, so if Mr B was busy, its probable that he wouldnt have had 
time to ring HSBC back until the following morning. But due to the time difference, its likely a 
decision would have already been made to restrict the account when they didnt hear back 
from Mr B. I say this as HSBC have provided a screenshot of when the restriction was 
placed on his account at 18:21pm BST, so my understanding is that it would have been 
1:21am on 31 August 2021 in the country Mr B was based when the online access was 
restricted.
Ive then considered whether a further call back from HSBC (as indicated by what a manager 
told Mr B was on the system notes) would have made a difference to what happened. But 
Im not persuaded it would have done. I say this because it was already late where Mr B 
lived. If HSBC had rang back Mr B at a later time, then this would have likely been very 
distressing for Mr B after he had told them everything was fine, or it could have even woken 
him up, depending on what time later they rang back. Mr B also told a call handler on 1 
September that the original call handler ringing him at the time she did was unacceptable, so 
Im not persuaded that if HSBC did give him a further call at a later time, that Mr B would 
have found this acceptable. Even if HSBC would have sent him a text to call them back, this 
would have only been the same information as the first call handler gave him that he needed 
to call them back. 
Im not persuaded that HSBC would have been able to be more specific on a second phone 
call or on a text as what they were on the original phone call without verification. And for this 
reason, on the balance of probability, then its unlikely Mr B would have verified himself on a 
second phone call, even if he wasnt busy at the time. So HSBC would not have been able to 
explain that if Mr B didnt confirm the transaction that day then his account would be 
restricted. 
So Im satisfied that even though HSBC reversed the transaction when they couldnt speak 
to Mr B, they took a proportionate step to restrict his account in order to protect his account. I 
say this as if Mr Bs account had been compromised, then by restricting the access of the 
method of the transfer (online), would mean that a fraudster would not be able to attempt 
any other online transfers. Naturally this would inconvenience Mr B as he would need to take 
steps to regain his full account features, but HSBC would need to weigh this up against Mr 
Bs account being compromised. So I cant say HSBC acted unfairly by taking this action. 
Ive considered what Mr B has said about HSBC not following their internal procedures. But 
their procedure is to call their customer where they have concerns about a transaction 
(which they did) and if they cant verify if the transaction was genuine on the same day it was 
attempted, to restrict the account of their customer (which they did), in order to safeguard 
their account. Although HSBC potentially could have done more, such as sending a text 
message to him to call them back or attempting to make a second phone call to Mr B before 
restricting his account, Ive previously mentioned the reasons why Im not persuaded this 
would have changed what occurred.
Ive then listened to the phone calls of 1 September 2021, when Mr B has realised his online 
account access has been restricted. When he spoke to the call handler and explained the 
situation, they explained they would need to transfer him to their fraud department, but the 
line was disconnected which resulted in Mr B needing to ring them back. He then needs to explain the situation to another call handler. This would have been very frustrating for Mr B, 
at a time where he was already frustrated based on him not being able to access his online 
banking. 
Mr B then manages to speak to the relevant department who managed to restore access to 
his online account, but his call disconnects during this process again. While it appears HSBC 
rang back Mr B instead of him having to ring them back, this still would have been 
inconvenient for Mr B to experience the constant disconnections from when he first 
attempted to speak to them.
So what I would expect HSBC to do is to compensate Mr B for the impact that the customer 
service would have had on him when he did ring them back. While it is not clear why the line 
disconnected, Im persuaded that when the line first disconnected when the call handler tried 
to transfer him to the relevant department, that the call handler could have rang him back to 
ensure a more seamless experience for Mr B, instead of him needing to ring back and speak 
to a department who wouldnt be able to resolve his issue. In addition, as Mr B has said it 
was unacceptable for HSBC to ring him after 10pm on the original call, then HSBC should 
recognise that this could be inappropriate to call someone at this time and when they are 
aware that a customer is based overseas, it would be prudent to check what the time is in 
the customers location, to see if it is appropriate before ringing them.
Ive considered what Mr B wants to resolve his complaint. He has said HSBC should pay him 
a minimum of £300. In deciding what compensation is fair, I need to consider the impact the 
errors are likely to have had on Mr B and the time it took to resolve these errors. The 
transaction Mr B attempted was on 30 August 2021. Mr Bs account access was restored on 
1 September 2021. So it was two days later when the situation was resolved. 
Mr B first contacted HSBC about the online access restriction on 1 September 2021. As Ive 
already explained, Im satisfied it was a proportionate step for HSBC to restrict his account 
after they couldnt confirm whether he made the original transaction. So when Mr B first rang 
HSBC on 1 September to regain full account access to when this was actioned, this appears 
to have taken two hours or less to resolve. But this is longer than I would expect HSBC to 
resolve an issue like this, even with the phone line disconnections.
Im satisfied that the compensation HSBC paid Mr B was fair. I say this as although the 
situation was resolved two days after the attempted transfer, Mr B would have always 
needed to have called HSBC back after he did not verify himself on the original call, this 
would have incurred call costs. Ive already mentioned previously why a second phone call 
would be unlikely to have made a difference and Im satisfied from what Mr B said about the 
time of the first call made, that a later call that day would have only distressed him further. 
In addition, HSBC confirmed that the restriction did not affect Mr Bs debit card or telephone 
banking during the time his internet access was restricted. Thats not to say that what did 
happen would not inconvenience him, just that the restriction was not a full account block, 
which would have caused more inconvenience. 
Compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business 
has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer 
over and above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend 
compensation, it is often modest and within our established guidelines.
So Im unable to award Mr B £300 based on our guidelines. Im persuaded the £100 that 
HSBC paid him reflects the call costs Mr B incurred, the difference in the exchange rates 
and the customer service he received. I say this as if HSBC had not upheld his complaint, then I would have awarded him broadly the same amount as what HSBC did. So it follows, I 
do not require HSBC to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman