DRN-4302910
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain about Haven Insurance Company Limiteds (Haven) decision to 
decline their claim under her buildings insurance policy.   
Mrs M has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mrs M or  
Mr M as Mrs M throughout the decision. 
What happened
Mrs M says she noticed water coming through the ceiling and down along her living room 
wall. Mrs M says she called a plumber who identified the source of the leak being water 
pipes located in the bathroom wall. She says the plumber worked on the pipe and capped 
this off to prevent any further damage. Mrs M made a claim to Haven but this was declined 
on the basis it was a gradually operating cause together with poor workmanship. Mrs M 
complained and Haven responded and explained Mrs Ms plumber had provided a report 
which said the leak was as a result of a pipe not being fitted correctly initially and then the 
water accumulating for a period of time, rather than a spontaneous burst. Haven said       
Mrs Ms policy contains an exclusion for damage caused by poor workmanship or anything 
happening gradually. Haven explained, as the plumber determined the leaking pipe had 
been in poor condition for over 20 years, the exclusion applied and so the decision to decline 
the claim was correct.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs M and Mr M. She thought Havens decision to 
decline the claim was unreasonable and recommended they reassess the claim. Mrs M and 
Mr M agreed but Haven disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My starting point is Mrs Ms home insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and, under a section headed Policy Exclusions it says Haven wont pay for loss 
or damage arising out of poor workmanship or anything happening gradually. 
I can see Haven have declined Mrs Ms claim on the basis the damage was caused by faulty 
workmanship and gradually operating cause. Mrs M doesnt feel this is fair as the leaking 
pipe was contained within a wall, and there was no sign of water damage prior to the date of 
the incident, so she wouldnt have been aware of any leaking. Mrs M says she bought her 
home two years ago, so this was long after the point the plumber believes the pipe mightve 
been capped off incorrectly. Mrs M also believes its unreasonable for Haven to rely on poor 
workmanship when the pipe hasnt leaked for 20 years after it was capped off. So Ive looked 
to see whether, in the circumstances of this case, Havens decision to decline the claim on 
these terms is fair and reasonable.  
I can see the plumber who attended Mrs Ms home prepared a report which was sent to 
Haven. This says he attended Mrs Ms home and noticed the leak was coming from an 
old hot water pipe which had been incorrectly capped off. In my opinion, this has been this 
way for more than twenty years or so. The plumber goes further to say, The leak would 
have been a slow drip to begin with, which has soaked into the wooden floor, as this has 
acted like a sponge and absorbed the water over the course of a few months. The water has 
then got into the floorboards and the ply wood flooring in the bathroom and eventually when 
the floor cant hold any more water its then gravitated and got into the joists and then into 
the living room ceiling. Before eventually leaking through the roof.  
 
Given the plumbers findings, which go into detail about how the water will have been 
absorbed by the wooden floor over a few months, I believe its more likely than not the 
escape of water is down to a gradually operating cause. So, with strict application of the 
policy terms, Haven can decline the claim. But, our approach to such complaints involves 
considering a second step  and thats whether a customer shouldve, or ought reasonably 
to have, been aware of the damage occurring. Mrs M explains this leaking pipe was boxed 
within a wall in the corner of the bathroom and wasnt visible. This is supported by the 
photos Mrs M has provided. Theres also photos of the living room which show some 
staining around the area where the water has come through the ceiling. But, given the 
staining is located right next to the area where the water has come through, Im persuaded 
the staining occurred at the same time the water came through. I think its also important to 
add, Haven havent provided any evidence which would suggest Mrs M was, or ought to 
have been, aware of an issue developing. So, taking this into account, I think Mrs M reported 
the damage to Haven as soon as she became aware, and couldnt have been aware sooner. 
So, I dont think its fair for Haven to rely on the gradually operating cause exclusion to 
decline the claim. 
Haven have also relied on the poor workmanship exclusion in support of their decision to 
decline the claim. The plumber refers to the water pipe being incorrectly capped off 20 years 
ago. Im not an expert in plumbing so Ive taken into account the opinion of the expert here, 
and then decided the complaint on what I think is more likely than not. The plumber does 
refer to the pipe being incorrectly capped, but he also refers to this having occurred 20 years 
ago. I cant say with any certainty when precisely the water started leaking from the 
incorrectly capped pipe, but I think if the work had been carried out so poorly, any leak or 
water damage wouldve been exposed much sooner than 20 years later. In any event, even 
if there had been poor workmanship, I dont believe its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances for Haven to rely on this exclusion on the basis Mrs M wouldnt have known 
about it and the length of time since the work was done. So, on this basis, and in the 
circumstances of this case, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Haven to rely on the poor 
workmanship exclusion to decline the claim.  
Taking this all into account, I dont think its reasonable in the circumstances for Haven to 
use the policy exclusions they have to decline the claim. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Haven have acted unfairly in declining Mrs M and Mr Ms claim 
based on the specific policy exclusions theyre using. So, Haven should reconsider Mrs M 
and Mr Ms claim further, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It is of 
course open to them to make any other further enquiries they feel are necessary, but I dont 
think its reasonable for them to use the specific policy terms they have to justify their 
decision to decline the claim.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Haven Insurance Company Limited must 
reconsider Mrs M and Mr Ms claim in light of the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman