DRN-2634422
The complaint
Miss E complains that Hamsard 3255 Limited trading as CLC Finance (Hamsard) provided
her with loans she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Es complaint in part. Hamsard disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was upholding Miss Es 
complaint in part. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Miss E has complained about a total of 53 home collected loans. A summary of Miss Es
borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Hamsard can be found below;
loan number loan amount received dateactual repayment 
date
1 £90 22.11.13 14.02.14
2 £60 31.01.14 11.04.14
3 £160 14.02.14 06.05.14
4 £80 28.02.14 20.06.14
5 £100 11.04.14 11.07.14
6 £200 06.06.14 26.09.14
7 £120 20.06.14 05.12.14
8 £160 11.07.14 05.12.14
9 £200 26.09.14 06.03.15
10 £160 05.12.14 08.05.15
11 £120 05.12.14 24.07.15
12 £100 05.12.14 24.07.15
13 £200 06.03.15 24.07.15
14 £160 08.05.15 27.11.15
15 £200 24.07.15 25.12.15
16 £120 24.07.15 04.12.15
17 £132 04.12.15 29.04.16
18 £100 04.12.15 25.03.16
19 £110 04.12.15 07.07.16
20 £220 25.12.15 03.06.16
21 £100 25.03.16 01.07.16
22 £264 29.04.16 04.11.16
23 £220 03.06.16 04.11.16
24 £100 01.07.16 04.11.16
25 £88 01.07.16 04.11.16
26 £495 04.11.16 05.05.17
27 £100 04.11.16 17.03.17
28 £132 04.11.16 05.05.17
29 £100 17.03.17 16.06.17
30 £495 05.05.17 08.12.17
31 £110 05.05.17 22.09.17
32 £100 16.06.17 22.09.17
33 £100 22.09.17 15.12.17
34 £100 22.09.17 12.01.18
35 £450 08.12.17 01.06.18
36 £120 08.12.17 01.06.18
37 £100 15.12.17 06.04.18
38 £100 12.01.18 01.06.18
39 £150 06.04.18 01.06.18
40 £125 04.05.18 01.06.18
41 £200 31.08.18 08.02.19
42 £200 31.08.18 08.02.19
43 £200 12.10.18 08.02.19
44 £240 07.12.18 23.08.19
45 £200 08.02.19 23.08.19
46 £200 08.02.19 27.09.19
47 £200 08.02.19 19.07.19
48 £200 30.08.19 28.02.20
49 £200 30.08.19 28.02.20
50 £200 30.08.19 03.04.20
51 £240 20.12.19 outstanding
52 £200 28.02.20 outstanding
53 £200 28.02.20 outstanding
Miss E has had some problems repaying her final three loans, and as of October 2020 an
outstanding balance remained.
After Miss E complaint to Hamsard it issued its final response letter (FRL) which didnt
uphold her complaint. Unhappy with this response, Miss E brought her complaint to our
service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and she didnt think Hamsard had made an error
when it provided the first five loans. However, from loan 6, the adjudicator thought that a
harmful pattern of lending had been established so the complaint about this loan, and all
later loans should be upheld.
Miss E appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings.
However, Hamsard didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In response it made a
number of points. I want to reassure Hamsard that I have read everything has sent, but a
summary of the points (provided by Hamsard) can be found below:
The industry regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  didnt have
concerns about Hamsards processes when it was granted a licence and hasnt
subsequently raised any concerns with Hamsard.
Hamsards lending is compliant with the rules laid down by the FCA.It has worked with Yorkshire Trading Standards who reviews its procedures.
The FCA carried out a consultation for the Home Collected Credit Sector. The
findings were released in September 2020, and didnt recommend any changes to
the rules.
Miss E recommended her sister for loans in 2018, which Hamsard says shows that
Miss E wasnt dissatisfied with the service shed received.
The first 32 loans were repaid via weekly cash collections, and then Miss E moved to
electronic payment. This gave the agent a chance to build a relationship and there
were no signs either from the agent or the way the loans were repaid to suggest
financial difficulties.
For each loan Miss E declared that the loans were affordable.
Hamsard has best in class practices.
Had Hamsard not provided lending, it is possible that Miss E may have been pushed
to taking unregulated and more expensive credit.
The adjudicator went back to Hamsard to try and deal with its comments and she also
referenced some further guidance issued by the FCA by the way of two Dear CEO letters as
well as its recent paper into re-lending. Hamsard still didnt agree the complaint should be
partially upheld and came back with some further comments;
There has been no attempt to address why Miss E needed these loans.
Miss E repaid all loans without undue difficulty.
Hamsard is not a payday lender, but a home credit provider and they are different in
nature.
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to make a decision on
the lending.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hamsard says its lending was compliant with the relevant rules and regulations, however, I
need to consider this in detail.
It may help if I outline the legal and regulatory environment when the lending was approved.
Whilst this is quite lengthy, I think it is useful to be completely clear about what Hamsard
needed to do in order to lend compliantly at the time of each lending decision.
the legal and regulatory framework and other publications
Hamsard gave Miss E her first four loans in the period up to the end of March 2014. During
this time it needed a standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), in order to
carry out consumer credit activities.
Section 25(2) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 set out the factors the OFT had to consider
when deciding whether to grant a consumer credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1) In determining whether an applicant for a licence is a fit person for the purposes
of this section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be relevant
including (amongst other things)a. the applicant's skills, knowledge and experience in relation to 
consumer credit businesses, consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit 
businesses;
b. such skills, knowledge and experience of other persons who the 
applicant proposes will participate in any business that would be carried on by him 
under the licence;
c. practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement in 
connection with any such business;
d. evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence is evidence tending to show that the applicant, or any of the applicant's 
employees, agents or associates (whether past or present) or, where the applicant is a 
body corporate, any person appearing to the OFT to be a controller of the body corporate 
or an associate of any such person, has
(a) committed any offence involving fraud or other dishonesty or violence;
(b) contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 so far as 
it relates to the consumer credit jurisdiction under that Part;
(iii) any other enactment regulating the provision of credit 
to individuals or other transactions with individuals;
(c) contravened any provision in force in an EEA State which corresponds 
to a provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph (b);
(d) practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or 
national origins in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; 
or
(e)engaged in business practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful 
or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether unlawful or 
not) [my emphasis].
Section 25(2B) set out a direct example of the type of practice referred to in Section 
25(2A(e)) and said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which the OFT may 
consider to be deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper include 
practices in the carrying on of a consumer credit business that appear to the OFT 
to involve irresponsible lending [my emphasis].
In March 2010, as required by s.25A, the OFT produced guidance on the test for 
irresponsible lending for the purposes of section 25(2B) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
And as a result it issued its Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG).
Whilst this guidance represents the OFT's view on irresponsible lending, it is not meant to
represent an exhaustive list of behaviours and practices which might constitute irresponsible
lending. But I consider the ILG to be of central importance in reaching a fair and reasonable
outcome in Miss Es case. I will reproduce the sections that I consider to be most relevant to
the issues in this case.The foreword to the guidance set out its purpose and said:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for
businesses and consumer representatives as to the business practices that the
Office of Fair Trading (OFT) considers may constitute irresponsible lending practices
for the purposes of section 25(2B) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It indicates
types of deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper business practices
which, if engaged in by a consumer credit business, could call into consideration its
fitness to hold a consumer credit licence.
Section 2.2 of the guidance says:
In general terms, creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when advertising, selling, or 
seeking to enforce a credit agreement
make a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford to 
meet repayments in a sustainable manner
explain the key features of the credit agreement to enable the borrower to 
make an informed choice
monitor the borrower's repayment record during the course of the agreement, 
offering assistance where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty and 
treat borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations of lenders. Amongst other things, it says:
In addition to the above there should be:
fair treatment of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted with credit 
products that are clearly unsuitable for them, subjected to high pressure selling, 
aggressive or oppressive behaviour or inappropriate coercion, or conduct 
which is deceitful, oppressive, unfair or improper, whether unlawful or not
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable by virtue of their current 
indebtedness, poor credit history, or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for 
any other reason, should, in particular, not be targeted or exploited.
Section four of the guidance is concerned with the assessment of affordability that lenders
were required to carry out before granting credit. Section 4.1 says:
In the OFT's view, all assessments of affordability should involve a consideration of
the potential for the credit commitment to adversely impact on the borrower's
financial situation, taking account of information that the creditor is aware of at the
time the credit is granted. The extent and scope of any assessment of affordability, in
any particular circumstance, should be dependent upon  and proportionate to  a
number of factors (see paragraph 4.10 of this guidance document).
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test'
which involves a creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake a specific credit
commitment, or specific additional credit commitment, in a sustainable manner,
without the borrower incurring (further) financial difficulties and/or experiencing
adverse consequences.
Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says:Whatever means and sources of information creditors employ as part of an
assessment of affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of
the credit sought being unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is
likely to involve more than solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able
to repay the credit in question.
We consider that before granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit,
or significantly increasing the credit limit under an agreement for running account
credit, creditors should take reasonable steps to assess a borrower's likely ability to
be able to meet repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 thus:
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit that can
be repaid by the borrower:
owithout undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing
problem indebtedness
oover the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end
agreements, within a reasonable period of time
oout of income and/or available savings, without having to realise security
or assets.
Section 4.4 goes on to describe undue difficulty and says:
The OFT would regard 'without undue difficulty' in this context as meaning the 
borrower being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal 
circumstances that were not reasonably foreseeable at the time the credit was 
granted):
while also meeting other debt repayments and other 
normal/reasonable outgoings and;
without having to borrow further to meet these repayments.
Building on the proportionality principle set out in section 4.1, section 4.10 deals with 
the issues that might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It 
cites factors such as:
the type of credit product;
the amount of credit to be provided and the associated cost and risk to 
the borrower;
the borrowers financial situation at the time the credit is sought;
the borrowers credit history, including any indications of the 
borrower experiencing (or having experienced) financial difficulty
the vulnerability of the borrower
Section 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types and sources of information that a lender 
might use to assess affordability, a summary of these points is included below:
evidence of income
evidence of expenditure
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit scorea credit report from a credit reference agency
information obtained from the borrower through a form or a meeting
Section 4.15 concerns the verification of income and urposes of making
an appropriate assessment of affordability. It states:
In our view, creditors who do not require documentary evidence of income and/or 
expenditure as part of their assessment of affordability, but rather accept 
information provided by the borrower without any supporting evidence or, in the 
alternative, do not seek any information on income and/or expenditure at all as part 
of their assessment, should ensure that whatever means and sources of information 
they employ are sufficient to make an appropriate assessment...
Section 4.16 specifically touches on the issue of proportionality in the context of short-term 
credit. It says:
Whilst the OFT accepts, as a general principle from a proportionality perspective, 
that the level of scrutiny required for small sum and/or short-term credit may be 
somewhat less than for large sum and/or long term credit, we consider that creditors 
should also take account of the fact that the risk of the credit being unsustainable 
would be directly related to the amount of credit granted (and associated interest / 
charges etc.) relative to the borrowers financial situation.
Sections 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible lending 
practices relating to how business assess affordability. Section 4.20 says this would 
include where a lender is:
Failing to undertake a reasonable assessment of affordability in an individual case or
cases.
Section 4.21 gives another example:
Failing to consider sufficient information to be able to reasonably assess 
affordability, prior to granting credit, significantly increasing the total amount of 
credit provided, or significantly increasing the credit limit (in the case of a running 
account credit agreement)
This could (but not necessarily) include for example:
Where applicable, appropriate and proportionate, failing to verify details of current 
income and/or expenditure by, for example, checking hard copies of 
payslip/contract of employment (when a borrower is in employment), accountants 
letters (where a borrower is self-employed) or benefit statements (where a 
borrower is not in employment).
And Section 4.26 says a business would be acting irresponsibly if:
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability assessment, 
it is known, or reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be 
unsustainable.Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders treatment of information disclosed by the 
customer. 4.29 says it would be an unsatisfactory business practice where a lender:
fail[s] to take adequate steps, so far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure 
that information on a credit application relevant to an assessment of affordability is
complete and correct.
And section 4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to:
[Accept] an application for credit under circumstances in which it is known, or 
reasonably ought to be suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in 
completing the application for credit with regards to the information supplied 
relevant to inform an assessment of affordability.
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific irresponsible lending practices relating to lender 
behaviour once loan(s) have been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory 
practice where a business is:
Failing to monitor a borrowers repayment record
Section 6.2 goes on to say:
The OFT considers that creditors should take appropriate actionwhen/if there are 
signs of apparent / possible repayment difficulties.
Section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
On 1 February 2011 the majority of the legislation implementing the provisions of the 
Consumer Credit Directive 2008 came into force. At that point the ILG was amended to 
reflect any changes required by the Consumer Credit Directive and an additional 
requirement on a lender to carry out an Assessment of creditworthiness was set out in 
section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act.
Its important to note that both section 25 and section 55 of the Consumer Credit Act 
remained in force until regulation of Consumer Credit providers passed to the FCA in April 
2014.
Section 55B said:
Assessment of creditworthiness 55B
(1) Before making a regulated consumer credit agreement, other than an excluded 
agreement, the creditor must undertake an assessment of the creditworthiness of the 
debtor.
(2) Before significantly increasing
a. the amount of credit to be provided under a regulated consumer 
credit agreement, other than an excluded agreement, orb. a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated consumer 
credit agreement, other than an excluded agreement, the creditor 
must undertake an assessment of the debtors creditworthiness.
(3) A creditworthiness assessment must be based on sufficient information obtained 
from
a. the debtor, where appropriate, and
b. a credit reference agency, where necessary.
By the time of loan 5, and for all of Miss Es subsequent loans (1 April 2014 onwards), this 
requirement to assess creditworthiness moved from S55B of the Consumer Credit Act, to 
the rules of the new regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
Hamsard gave Miss E lending 5 to 53 after the regulation of Consumer Credit Licensees had
transferred from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2014.
Hamsard initially obtained interim permission to provide consumer credit before it went on to
successfully apply for authorisation. Hamsards interim permission to provide consumer
credit and its eventual authorisation to do so meant that it was subject to the FCA rules and
regulations from 1 April 2014.
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised
firms are required to comply with. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And
the most relevant principle here is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit 
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit
providers, such as Hamsard. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible
lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a
regulated agreement.
The starting point for the relevant rules is Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC which sets out what a
lender needs to do before agreeing to give a consumer credit of this type. It says a firm must
consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to
adversely impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to
be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
Like the ILG before it, CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments.
CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances
dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the
potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relatesto the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the
customers financial situation.
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking
about affordability, and CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC
5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability
to repay the credit.
By way of explanation, CONC 5.3.1G(2) reads:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1)
should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet 
repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the 
customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse
consequences.
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4)
states:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement
where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been
truthful in completing the application in relation to information supplied by the
customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by
CONC 5.2.2R (1).
Finally, there have been a number of publications and Dear CEO letters issued by the FCA
during the time that Hamsard lent to Miss E. For example, on 6 March 2019, The FCA wrote
a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer of all firms allocated to the High Cost
Lenders portfolio. Ive enclosed an extract to show what sort of lenders come under this
portfolio. And as can be seen, Hamsard is one. So I dont consider it unreasonable to be
mindful of what these further publications say.
Im satisfied the letter applies to Hamsard, because it says;
Who this letter applies to
This letter applies to firms providing the following products:
guarantor loans
high-cost short-term credit (HCSTC)
high-cost unsecured loans aimed at sub-prime customers
home-collected credit (HCC)
income smoothing products
logbook loans
pawnbrokingrent-to-own (RTO) [My emphasis in bold]
The FCA concluded, in the letter the following (which will be relevant later on):
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic of unsustainable 
lending patterns and
firms affordability checks may be insufficient, leading to loans that 
customers may not be able to afford.
And then, in August 2020, the FCA released its view into re-lending in the high cost credit
portfolio  which as Ive shown above Hamsard is part of. The findings of the re-relending
review say:
We remind firms of our Dear CEO letter from October 2018, sent to all HCSTC firms
(but which equally applies to other firms in the high-cost lenders portfolio). In that, we
highlighted the risks in relation to repeat borrowing given that it could indicate a
pattern of dependency on credit that is harmful to the borrower. Rigorous affordability
assessments are key to avoiding harm in this area, and firms should ensure they are
making proportionate and responsible assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
Further, firms must not encourage a customer to refinance a regulated credit
agreement if the result would be the customer's commitments are not sustainable.
We are concerned in some instance to see levels of debt and repayments increase
significantly. We saw levels of relending often double within a 2 to 3 year period.
At some point, rising levels of overall debt and repayments will become
unsustainable for customers. From our consumer research, we are concerned that
firms are lending to customers beyond levels which they can sensibly manage and
causing customer harm as a result.
Hamsard is currently licenced by the FCA to carry out consumer credit related activity
including providing home-collected credit. And the FCA considers that, by providing this type
of credit, Hamsard falls under the high cost credit portfolio. Clearly Hamsard is a home credit
provider, and not a payday lender. But when thinking about what has happened in this case,
Ive kept in mind all the regulations and publications that Ive mentioned above.
Hamsard also says it has worked closely with the FCA and with Yorkshire Trading Standards
and neither party has raised any concerns around its lending practices. I dont know the
nature of the reviews. But my role is to consider what has happened in the individual
circumstances of Miss Es case  taking into account her loan history and what Hamsard
knew about her.
So although general conduct concerns may not have been raised, that doesnt mean that, in
this case, Hamsard has done everything that it needed to do in terms of following the
regulations and guidance. And below Ive explained why, based on everything Ive seen,
Miss Es complaint should be partly upheld.
Questions for me to consider before deciding whether Hamsard did anything wrong when it
provided Miss E with her loans.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account the relevant rules,
guidance and law, I think the overarching questions are;Did Hamsard, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to
satisfy itself that Miss E would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would
those checks have shown that Miss E wouldve been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point
where Hamsard ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Miss Es
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt
have provided further credit?
Did Hamsard act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Hamsard did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss E and
that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Hamsard, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy
itself that Miss E would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
It is important to note that both the OFT and the FCA didnt, and still doesnt, specify exactly
how an assessment of affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the
types and sources of information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably
assess the sustainability of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of
the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit, but of the risk to the consumer of incurring
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the
decision to lend.
As set out in the ILG and CONC, the risk to the consumer directly relates to the particulars of
the lending and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of
creditworthiness would likely need to be adaptable to the individual needs and
circumstances of a consumer. That is to say, what is sufficient for one consumer might not
be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance might
not be so for the same consumer in other circumstances. In short, Hamsard needed to be
prepared to adapt its assessment depending on what it knew about Miss E. So, a dynamic
approach to assessing each applications affordability for the customer is vital.
Bearing the above in mind (including the regulations Ive set out at the start of this decision),
I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with the circumstance of each
request for credit. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the
potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way.
Certain factors might point to the fact that Hamsard should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include,
but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a
given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of credit agreements, and the longer the
period of time during which a customer has been given the credit (reflecting the risk
that ongoing use of these agreements may signal that the borrowing had become, or
was becoming, unsustainable).Hamsard considers its checks were proportionate, because the agent was able to build a
relationship with Miss E. Is also goes on to say that its home credit loans potentially
prevented Miss E taking more expensive credit from unregulated providers.
For the early loans (1-9) there isnt any point of sale information available. But Hamsard has
been able to provide a statement of account. But, I cant be sure what information Miss E
declared to Hamsard; what information it asked for; or what else it may have found out.
From loan 9 onwards, Hamsard has supplied this service with the application information
which included an affordability assessment, as well as the declaration that Miss E agreed to
 confirming she could afford the repayments she was committed to making.
Ive seen examples of the application form and it looks like Miss E was asked about her
income (and sources of that) and some details of her expenditure  including rent, utilities,
food and council tax (to name a few of the questions that were asked).
Assuming the same sort of information was collected for loans 1  9 as Hamsard collected
for the later loans, then I think it is likely that for all loans Hamsard had a fairly good idea of
Miss Es declared income and expenditure.
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Hamsard carried out proportionate
checks before lending to Miss E.
Loans 1  5
Our adjudicator didnt think Hamsard had made an error when approving these loans. Miss E
appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings in relation to these loans. And Hamsard,
also appears to accept that it didnt do anything wrong by providing these loans. Therefore, I
no longer think these loans are in dispute. So, Im not going to be making a finding about
these loans in this decision. But I have kept these loans in minding when thinking about Miss
Es overall lending relationship.
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point where
Hamsard ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Miss Es indebtedness in a
way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further
loans?
In addition to thinking about the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to
Miss E by Hamsard, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern of
lending and what unfolded during the course of Miss Es lending history with Hamsard. This
is because there may come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
Referencing the relevant rules and guidance as summarised in the earlier part of my
decision, Hamsard was required to establish whether Miss E could sustainably repay her
loans (as outlined in CONC 5.2.4G(2))  not just whether the loan payments were affordable
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Indeed, CONC 5.3.1 which explains that Hamsard
had to take into account more than assessing the customers ability to repay the credit.
So, the loan payments being affordable might be an indication a consumer could sustainably
make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because
both the ILG and latter CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in
particular that the customer should be able to make repayments on time and while meeting
other reasonable commitments.So this means the individual checks that Hamsard carried out  and whether they were
proportionate  may not matter after a certain point. As the lending history (on its own) may
have been sufficient to say that the lending had become harmful for Miss E. Although not
available at the time of the lending, this does link back to the FCAs re-lending policy paper
of August 2020, which in turn referenced the October 2018 Dear CEO letter. Neither of
these introduced any new rules or regulations, but summarised the established position. For
example, the October 2018 Dear CEO letter said:
In that, we highlighted the risks in relation to repeat borrowing given that it could
indicate a pattern of dependency on credit that is harmful to the borrower. Rigorous
affordability assessments are key to avoiding harm in this area, and firms should
ensure they are making proportionate and responsible assessments of the
sustainability of borrowing.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 6 to 53 because I
didnt consider it necessary to do so. Indeed, Id be inclined to think that from loan 6,
Hamdards checks really needed to go further than just relying on the information Miss E
was providing. It ought to have been trying to verify the information in order to have an
accurate understanding of Miss E actual financial position.
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to
Miss E, Hamsard needed to have regard to the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded
during the course of its lending relationship with Miss E. I do think Hamsard was wrong to
have provided loans 6  53 because Miss E wasnt in a position to sustainably repay them
for the following reasons:
By loan 6, Hamsard ought to have realised Miss E was not managing to repay her
loans sustainably. Miss E had been indebted to Hamsard for around 6 months. While
I accept I dont know the loan terms, it seems to me at a minimum they were likely to
run for around 16 weeks. So, 6 months after she started borrowing, with a relatively
small loan, shed been given a further five loans and only three of them had been
fully repaid. Miss E started off with a loan of £90 and then she continued to borrow
taking loans of between £60 and £160 before loan 6 when she took her largest loan
to date. This pattern in my view isnt of someone who is able to manage their money,
given how quickly they are returning for borrowing.
I accept that Miss Es repayment history may have appeared good (in terms of
absence of arrears). But the fact that she had taken a number of loans within a
relatively short period of time, coupled with the fact that the loan amounts (and
therefore the monthly commitments) were increasing her overall indebtedness,
supports my view that Miss Es indebtedness had become unsustainable.
This view is further supported by the emergence of a concerning pattern of when 
loans were taken, which suggested there was an ongoing need for, or dependence 
on, borrowing. Hamsard wouldve been aware that loan three was taken on the same 
day as loan one had been repaid, and loan three was for a larger sum. Loan five was 
taken on the same day as loan two was repaid  again for a larger sum. Finally, loan 
six was taken around a week after loan three had been repaid and again loan six was 
for a larger sum, compared to the loan that had recently been settled. Hamsard 
should have been alerted by this and asked why Miss E was needing to return so 
quickly for new lending after repaying a loan. It did not.
Miss Es first loan was for £90 and loan 6 was for £200. This to me shows that Miss E
wasnt reducing her indebtedness to Hamsard and so, although she was repayingloans in line with the credit agreements, she wasnt actually making any headway
into reducing her overall capital balance. Nor does the evidence suggest she was
using the loans as a useful means of managing any shortfalls she was having. This
would suggest she didnt have a short-term shortfall, but a longer-term need,
because she continued to take further lending, sometimes for greater amounts.
At this point Hamsard ought to have thought it was more likely than not that Miss E
had an ongoing need for this type of credit. By loan 6, I dont think it was reasonable
for Hamsard to carry on assuming that Miss E was using this borrowing in a
sustainable manner. It had substantial cause to investigate this further, but it did not.
At that point, we dont know what Miss E told Hamsard about her circumstances as
the information isnt available. But I think it needed to have had a full understanding
of Miss Es actual financial circumstances. This wouldve included verifying the
information she was providing before it could have made a decision to lend that could
now be described as either fair or reasonable. Given the point in the lending
relationship, I think the pattern of lending in itself looked harmful for Miss E, and that
should have been Hamsards starting point when assessing her application for loan
6. I accept it is possible that, had Hamsard done thorough checks, it might have
established that further lending wasnt harmful. But it did not do that, and the
available evidence at this point does not suggest that would have been what it
uncovered.
What I would also add here is that on some of the later loan applications Hamsard asked its
agent to explain a number of terms to Miss E  one of which says:
Type of credit Point out the nature of short term credit if appropriate and emphasise
the unsuitability for long term borrowing.
The fact that Miss E regularly took loans from Hamsard over a period of more than six years
clearly indicates that this was long term borrowing. And in Hamsards own conditions it said
that these loans werent suitable for this. So there is a substantial gap between what
Hamsard stated about how its lending should be used, and how it lent to Miss E.
By the time she took her final loan (loan 53) was taken out more than six years after Miss Es
first loan. And it was for a larger amount. Overall, Miss E had paid large amounts of interest
to, in effect, service a debt to Hamsard over an extended period of time.
I think that Miss E lost out because Hamsard continued to provide borrowing from loan 6
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Es indebtedness by allowing
her to take credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time coupled with the number of loans which Miss E borrowed was likely
to have had negative implications on Miss Es ability to access mainstream credit and
so kept her in the market for these loans.
Did Hamsard act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here that
leads me to conclude Hamsard acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss E in some other
way.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss E responded telling this service that she accepted the findings of the provisional 
decision. So, she didnt have anything further for me to consider.  
Hamsard didnt accept the provisional decision. It provided a lengthy response, and Ive 
summarised its points below, but I have read and taken on board everything that is said in its 
response:
1. Hamsard confirmed that Miss E hadnt had any problems repaying her final three 
loans  it says payments were stopped as a result of her complaint to Hamsard. It 
reiterated that prior to the complaint Miss E hadnt raised any concerns with Hamsard 
about the affordability of the loans. 
2. Hamsard has told us in the weeks after Miss E made her complaint she took an 
additional three loans with other lenders. She borrowed a total of £2,211 which had a 
monthly repayment of £137.
3. Hamsard also says Miss E made further credit applications with a Credit Union in 
October 2020. Taking account of these applications Hamsard says that Miss E knew 
that lenders had an obligation to carry out checks and that she couldnt afford her 
loans, yet she still sought out further lending. 
4. Rather than borrowing further funds Miss E couldve sought advice from third party 
debt advisors. 
5. Hamsards agent regularly met with Miss E and was therefore able to cross check the 
information she provided  for example by looking at her online bank statements.
6. Hamsard has said the loan information and agreements provided shows that its 
creditworthiness assessments were compliant. Including the agent cross referencing 
information they saw from Miss Es online bank statements. So, its not right to say 
that Miss E was in financial difficulties, because she wasnt. 
7. Hamsard says its checks showed that Miss E was able to repay her loans without 
undue difficulty because prior to the complaint Miss E made regular repayments . 
8. Hamsard has supplied information to the FCA as to how its creditworthiness 
assessment takes into account repeat lending and it says no concerns have been 
raised about its lending practices. 
9. By loan six, while Miss E had been indebted for six months, her actual indebtedness 
had decreased from £450 at the start of April to £300 by late May. 
10. Hamsard says there was no concerns in Miss E returning for loans shortly after 
previous ones have been repaid because the agent wouldve asked the purpose of 
the loan. If the loan was unsustainable it wouldnt have been granted.
11. There was no reason why the agent wouldve suspected that Miss E was borrowing 
for a longer term need.
12. The provisional decision mentioned thorough checks but no explanation has been 
given as to what checks shouldve been done. But, Hamsard repeated, that 
information was crossed referenced with bank statements and other third party 
sources such as credit file. 
13. Although Miss E may have borrowed for a long time, the agent wouldve been 
satisfied that each loan was for a short-term purpose. 
14. Miss E was provided all the paperwork at the start of the application, including what 
the loan purpose was for and how funds were disbursed. 
As part of its response, Hamsard also made further representation around any redress that 
may or may not be due. In detail is said;
15. Hamsard says that Miss E hasnt lost out as a result of these loans, because had it 
not lent to her, she wouldve gone to other regulated (and non-regulated) lenders. 16. Even if Hamsard accepted some redress was due, it doesnt think the full interest and 
charges should be refunded. 
17. Miss E went elsewhere for further credit (details above) so any redress needs to take 
account of the causation and loss  as was explained in the recent Kerrigan 
judgement paragraph 137 and 144. 
18. So Hamsard says that, even if redress was due, nothing should be paid because its 
clear Miss E sought and was granted credit elsewhere. 
19. Hamsard also says that, as the decision concluded she was locked out of the 
mainstream credit, any redress should take account of the cost of obtaining the 
credit. 
Following the initial response to the provisional decisions, Hamsard provided some further 
documents, including:
a 133 page report entitled the impact on business and consumers of a cap on the 
total cost of credit. This report was complied by Personal Finance Research Centre 
in the University of Bristol in 2013 and
a table of the affordability assessments that Hamsard carried out, and it showed how 
much Miss E wouldve had left over from her income each week after her expenditure 
and the Hamsard loan repayments had been deducted.  
Ive thought about everything Hamsard has sent this service, and although not every point 
Hamsard has made will be commented on in this decision, it has been considered. But I still 
think Miss Es should be upheld in part, and Ive explained why below. 
In response to Hamsards points, which Ive numbered above, Ive put numbers in brackets 
at the end of each paragraph which correspond to the point that has been addressed. 
To begin with, I think it would be useful to deal with the report that Hamsard provided us. 
The report was requested by a government department to look at the impact of introductions 
of variable cost caps in various credit markets, including the home credit market. But the 
report is quite clear in the summary, that there are no recommendations as to whether a cost 
cap should be introduced, but it was produced to inform policy. 
While Ive noted the content of this report, which is not, of course, an expression of the 
regulations that Hamsard was required to comply with, I think the market place and 
regulations have moved on. This report was produced in 2013 and we know the FCA 
introduced a cost cap for high cost short term loans in 2015. Equally, there has been a 
number of other reports and guidance since the date of this report which I think are far more 
relevant to Miss Es case. Indeed, Ive outlined a lot of the regulations and requirements on 
Hamsard that were in force at the actual time it granted Miss Es loans. So, I wont be 
looking at or considering this report further. 
Also, Hamsard says it has provided the FCA with details of its creditworthiness assessment 
and its repeat lending and no concerns were raised. However, it doesnt seem that the FCA 
has offered an opinion on the compliance of Hamsards actions in this case, rather limiting 
the relevance of this point. The FCA is concerned with the regulation of the industry. 
Whereas it is this services role to consider what has happened in each individual case 
brought to us, and reach a fair and reasonable decision as to whether anything went wrong. 
In this case, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that these loans became unsustainable 
for Miss E. I think its clear that proportionate checks werent carried out for the majority of 
the loans, Im also satisfied that there was a clear point at which the loans became 
unsustainable, and in this case, this point was reached by loan 6. And Im satisfied this 
finding is entirely in line with the rules and regulations that were applicable at the time. (8) Im happy to correct the provisional decision, in as far as saying that Miss E didnt appear to 
have repayment problems, and the only reason why the last three loans are outstanding is 
because Miss E raised her complaint. However, in my view, that doesnt alter the outcome 
that I've reached, and I've made allowances for that in the redress that Ill be directing 
Hamsard to pay. (1)
Hamsard also says that it verified some of the information it was given by Miss E with third 
parties such as credit reference agencies. However, it hasnt to date provided this service 
with the results of those credit checks that is says were carried out. So, I cant put any 
weight on what Hamsard says has happened in relation to these checks.  
Hamsard explained a number of times in the response to the provisional decision about the 
checks it says it carried out. It says that it cross referenced the information Miss E gave it 
with her bank statements, so it had a fairly good idea of the accuracy of the information she 
was providing about her living costs. And it then went on to say that Miss E had to select the 
reason why the loan was being taken for example whether it for a one-off purchase. And 
these lending decisions wouldve been discussions between Miss E and the agent. (5, 6)
Ive gone back through the credit agreements that Hamsard provided this service for most of 
the loans. It seems that for loans approved from the end of 2015 through to the start of 2017 
no bank statements were viewed at all  or at least according to the application forms. Or if 
they were, they havent been marked on the application form. (5, 6)
From the start of 2017 until the end of the lending relationship it does appear that the agent 
had sight of the bank statements. However, the credit agreements suggest that these have 
been used to confirm Miss Es identity rather than as Hamsard suggested as a way of cross 
checking or confirming information Miss E declared about her expenditure  there is just no 
evidence that this is what it was used for. (5, 6)
Thinking about the dates Ive mentioned above, this would suggest Hamsard didnt view her 
bank statements until around loan 30, that is around three years after Miss E started 
borrowing from it. So, I dont see how this really helps Hamsards arguments that Miss E was 
able to afford each loan it granted, or that she wasnt having some financial problems. (7)
I can see that the application forms do ask Miss E to select the purpose of the loan, and like 
the viewing of the bank statements her answers can be split into two distinct periods. For the 
applications I have, it seems on applications made from the end of 2015 through to the start 
of 2018 Miss E said she needed the loans for other reasons (around 37 loans). And then 
from the start of 2018 until 2020 it seems Miss E declared that she needed loans for one off 
purchases. (10)
Again, Im not convinced this adds anything to Hamsards argument. For a period of around 
4 years Miss E declared she was using the loans for some other purpose which was one of 
the options Hamsard provided. Given that she was taking 8 or 9 loans per year this lack of 
explanation doesnt change my mind about these loans being unsuitable. And if she was 
using the loans for one off purchases, again no information has been provided about the 
nature of these one off purchases, that seem to be occurring multiple times a year. (10)
Taking into account the checks that Hamsard said it did, Im not satisfied that for any of the 
loans the checks really went far enough. Even though the agent may have used bank 
statements to verify the information Miss E had provided (which hasnt been properly 
evidenced), this wasnt done until a well-established lending pattern had been established, 
and so the lending, in my view, was already harmful.  (12)I dont think that Hamsard explaining to Miss E about the consequences of taking these 
loans and her ability to repay is sufficient to say that proportionate affordability checks were 
carried out. After all, as the regulations show that isnt the test that is applied. Hamsard 
needs to be able to demonstrate that it carried out proportionate checks, which is something 
I dont think it can do. (14)
As I said in the provisional decision, the cumulative effect of all these loans effectively led 
Miss E into a long-term lending relationship with Hamsard. So, while the agent may have 
explained that each loan was only meant to be for short term use, it doesnt seem to me that 
any consideration was being given to the overall lending relationship. And I think the 
evidence supports my finding that Miss E was most likely using these loans for a long-term 
need, rather than, say, using them to cover a temporary cash flow problem or to cover the 
cost of a one-off purchase. (13)
Hamsard said in response that the relationship between the loans being repaid and new 
ones being taken out isnt of concern, especially as by loan 6 the amount of each loan wasnt 
always increasing. Having looked at what happened up to loan 6, Im still minded to uphold 
the complaint from this point given what Hamsard could see in the lending pattern up until 
this point and Ive explained why below. (9)
I also accept by loan six the amounts that Miss E was borrowing had fluctuated up and 
down. But by loan six, this was her largest individual loan to date, and there wasnt anything 
in the pattern of lending or the number of loans that couldve given Hamsard confidence that 
Miss E would be reducing her need for this lending. (9) 
Apart from loan 1, all the loans up to and including loan 6 were overlapping, so although 
each individual loan may have been smaller than the previous one, Miss Es overall 
indebtedness was trending upwards. By the time Miss E took out loan six, she had three 
loans running concurrently (the most at this point in the lending relationship) and the total 
capital borrowed for these three loans was the largest to date  £380 compared to £90 for 
loan one some six months prior. 
Miss E was also returning fairly quickly for a new loan after a previous one had been repaid. 
For example, loan 3 was taken on the day that loan 1 was repaid and loan 5 was taken on 
the same day that loan 2 was repaid. So, there was, in my mind a clear pattern emerging of 
increasing indebtedness as well as taking out concurrent loans and / or new loans shortly 
after a previous one was repaid. Im therefore satisfied that by loan 6, the lending was now 
harmful for Miss E. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above and in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that 
Hamsard shouldnt have provided Miss E with any lending from loan six.  I have then gone 
on to think about what Hamsard needs to put things right for Miss E. But before I do, I just 
want to address the comments Hamsard has made about the fact that Miss E tried to get 
lending from a Credit Union. (3)
As Hamsard will be aware, the rules and regulations around taking loans from a credit union 
are different to those from other high cost or high street providers of credit. So, I dont think 
suggesting that Miss E ought to have been aware of a problem when she approached the 
Credit Union (in October 2020) is helpful. Indeed, the fact that Miss E felt she needed to 
approach other credit providers has no bearing on the rules and regulations that a lender is 
required to adhere to before providing credit. (2) 
Hamsard has referred to a recent court case (points 15  19), Kerrigan v Elevate Credit 
International Limited (t/a Sunny) [2020] EWHC. Hamsard has said that, in order to reach a 
fair outcome for redress, this service has to consider the possibility of Miss E obtaining credit elsewhere, and so its unlikely anything should be paid because of the lower cost of the 
Hamsard loans in comparison with its competitors. Hamsard says this is in line with the 
findings in paragraph 144 of the judgement. 
Ive carefully considered this point, and Ive thought about what Hamsard says about the 
other lending it has highlighted to me  that being Miss E took three loans in the weeks 
following her complaint (and around six months after she took her final loan from Hamsard). 
But, I just dont think any reduction in redress can apply in this case. 
It isnt clear what the exact nature of the credit she took is  so who was the provider, and 
what was the type of credit, beyond what Hamsard says about the loans being unsecure. So, 
I cant be sure whether these were new high cost credit loans, home credit loans, or 
something else.  
I accept there was some overlap with these loans, because Miss E still had three 
outstanding loans with Hamsard at the time that these loans were granted. And Ive 
assumed that Miss E wouldve still been making payments to Hamsard when these loans 
were agreed (assuming the repayments were stopped after Miss Es complaint). 
But it isnt clear that Miss E took further loans from other lenders during the period of her 
lending relationship with Hamsard. Which is the timeframe during which I have found these 
lending decisions to be non-compliant with the regulations. The loans given by the third party 
to which Hamsard has referred were not given during the period Im considering. So, it would 
be difficult to regard them as a direct alternative for Miss E had Hamsard refused any of the 
applications she made to it.
Crucially, the judge was clear that it would only be reasonable to adjust the redress that 
could be paid if it can be shown that alternative loans granted by a third-party provider were 
lent in a compliant manner. The judge also made it clear that this was to be considered on a 
case by case basis. 
I dont think this is likely here. Ive found enough evidence to conclude that Miss Es lending 
had become unsustainable from 2014 to 2020. Whilst it could be, as I acknowledge above, 
that Miss Es circumstances improved dramatically during 2020, I certainly dont have any 
evidence to lead me to conclude that the lending she was granted after the end of her 
relationship with Hamsard was granted compliantly. That lending is not the subject of this 
complaint, of course, but it would not be reasonable for me to reduce the redress due unless 
I could reasonably conclude that any alternative lending decision was compliant. I couldnt 
conclude that here.
So, I still think Hamsard was wrong to approve loans 6  53 for many of the same reasons 
that I reached in the provisional decision, which can be found in the earlier part of this 
decision. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Hamsard should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it stopped lending to Miss E from loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought
to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that
question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss E may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnta viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss E in a compliant way at this time. I also havent seen any
evidence to suggest that Miss E wouldve approached an unregulated lender for funds, as
Hamsard has raised.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss E would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Hamsards liability in this case for what
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Hamsard shouldnt have given Miss E loans 6 to 53.
If Hamsard has sold any outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and
then take the following steps. If Hamsard is not able to buy the debts back then Hamsard
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Hamsard should refund all repayments made by Miss E towards interest, fees and
charges on loans 6 - 50.
B) Hamsard should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by
Miss E which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss E
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Hamsard should remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance
due for loans 51  53, and treat any repayments made by Miss E as though they had
been repayments towards the principal. If this results in Miss E having made
overpayments then Hamsard should refund these overpayments with 8% simple
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayment arose, to
the date the complaint is settled. Hamsard should then refund the amounts
calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D)  However, if there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A
and B should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this
results in a surplus then this should be paid to Miss E. However, if there is still an
outstanding balance then Hamsard should try to agree an affordable repayment plan
with Miss E.
E) The overall pattern of Miss Es borrowing for loans 6 to 53 means any information
recorded about them is adverse, so Hamsard should remove these loans entirely
from Miss Es credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Hamsard to deduct tax from this interest. Hamsard
should give Miss E a certificate showing how much tax Hamsard has deducted, if she asks
for one.  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Miss Es 
complaint in part.
Hamsard 3255 Limited trading as CLC Finance should put things for Miss E as Ive directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman