DRN-2366017
The complaint
  Mr R complains about the charges Motonovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) applied when he 
returned his car.  And that a default notice was unfairly put on his credit file. He would like 
the charges reconsidered.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have reached the following conclusions: -
The charges still in dispute relate to a cracked rear bumper and scratched front right 
door. Having looked closely at photos in the inspection report I agree with our 
investigator that it is unreasonable to charge for these. The rear bumper shows a 
minor scratch not a crack. The scratch on the front door appears minor. I think both 
could reasonably be taken as fair wear and tear. I think these charges should be 
refunded.
MotoNovo put a default notice on Mr Rs credit file when he didnt respond to its letter 
offering a 20% reduction for prompt payment. It accepted Mr R didnt receive the 
letter and amended his credit file. Mr R hasnt given us any evidence to show he 
suffered any finial loss or impact during the time that the default was on his credit file, 
but I do believe it caused him some distress.
MotoNovo has accepted its service was poor as it failed to advise Mr R that of the 
need to get a letter of authority to deal with a third party on Mr Rs behalf. I think that 
caused Mr R some inconvenience.
I think our investigators recommendation of paying Mr R £150 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience is reasonable. He wasnt given the information he 
needed with regard to a third party. And whilst I dont believe he suffered any 
financial loss as a result of the default on his credit file I think this did put him to some 
inconvenience to sort this out.
 My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
In full and final settlement MotoNovo Finance Limited should :-
Refund Mr R the charges for the cracked rear bumper and scratched front right door 
(£147.02 in total) with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr R £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman