The Complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy with the way CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) have 
handled a claim on thei r car insurance policy and with its valuation of thei r car. Mr and Mrs N 
are seeking an improved offer and compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N were sitting in their stationary car in May 2019 when a vehicle drove into the 
rear of their car, causing damage. Mr and Mrs N sustaine d injuries in the collision. Mr and 
Mrs N initially att
empted to resolve matters through a cred it hire business but were unhappy 
with the servi ce they provided. 
Following the accide nt CIS removed the damaged ca r and took it to a breaker's yard.  
CIS then arranged fo r the ca r to be inspected by engineers who valued it at £6,000. Mr N 
was not happy with this valuation and CISs internal enginee rs undertook a further review. In 
doing so they looked at three motor valuation databases. The valuations ranged fro m £5,815 
to £6,227. CIS offered Mr N a valuation of £6,230.
Mr and Mrs N complained to CIS th at it took thei r car without permission, when they could 
have had it repaired. Mr and Mrs N thought that the valuation of their car should have been 
higher. They were also unhappy at the amount of compensation they received from CIS for 
its poor clai ms handling.  
CIS said that it wasnt responsible for the actions of the credit hire business as this is a 
separate business. CIS said it was entitled under the poli cy to dispose of the car and did so 
as it was beyond economic repa ir. CIS said it could have handled the claim better and 
apologised. 
Our investigato r felt that this complaint should be p artly upheld. She noted that CIS had used 
a range of motor trade guides to obtain a valuation of the car. The investigator sai d the 
figure wa s re
asonable. 
The investigator said when a car is beyond economical repair and a settlement paid, under 
the poli cy it becomes the property of CIS. However our investigator concluded th at Mr and 
Mrs N had been clear that they were not acceptin g the offer from CIS. She said they werent 
told that their car would be sold and we
rent given the opportunity of retaining it. She 
recommended that CIS pay Mr and Mrs N £300 compensation for the poor service they 
receive d. As to the customer servi ce that Mr and Mrs N received for the other aspects of 
their claim, ou
r investigator found that CIS had acted in a reasonable manner.
DRN-1489144CIS disagreed with the investigator saying that it was entitled to dispose of the vehicle once 
it was determined that it was beyond economic repair. It said that Mr and Mrs N had never 
indicated to CIS that they wished to retain the car. The complaint was then referred to me for 
a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not for me to provide a precise valuation of a car but to decide if the offer being made is 
a reasonable one. This is normally based on various trade guides. I will also look at any 
other evidence provided. However I place most weight on the values in the main trade 
guides as theyre based on likely selling prices rather than advertised prices, which allow a 
margin for negotiation. I accept that Mr and Mrs N had spent money on an MOT and on 
servicing shortly before their car was damaged. However these are the things car owners 
have to do to keep cars on the road. They dont add to the cars value.
From what I have seen I too conclude that CIS acted in a fair and reasonable manner in 
evaluating the car. Trade guide prices are averages and variations in the actual figures may 
occur from place to place. In this case it is clear that CISs valuation of £6,230 is just above 
the highest valuation received. I think that the valuation is fair and reasonable.
Mr N wasnt happy because the car was removed and he wasnt given the opportunity of 
retaining it. Like our investigator, I accept that CIS should have discussed this matter with Mr 
and Mrs N. Although they agreed to accept an interim payment, Mr and Mrs N did not think 
that this meant that it was part payment for the car and that they had sold the car to CIS.  It 
is clear from the information before me that Mr and Mrs N have spent much time attempting 
to resolve this matter. I had no reason to doubt that they have found it to be a very upsetting 
and inconvenient experience  a view confirmed by our investigator. 
I understand that Mr N has some health issues and I agree with our investigator that much 
stress and upset could have been avoided had CIS acted in an appropriate manner. I agree 
with the investigator that CIS should pay Mr and Mrs N £300 compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I require CIS General Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs N £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before  30 June 2020.
Ron Handley
Ombudsman