DRN-3979197
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Foremost Currency Group unfairly shared his personal details with 
third parties. 
What happened
On 2 January 2022 Mr S used FCGs website to register for an account. This involved Mr S 
providing personal details, including his personal mobile number. Mr S was contacted by 
FCG a number of times to see if he wished to continue with his currency transfers by his 
account manager  by both email and phone. 
Mr S responded on 24 January 2022 to explain that he no longer had any need for FCGs 
services. Mr S requested a copy of the personal data FCG held about him and who this 
information was shared with. FCG did not process Mr S request until August 2022.
Mr S complained to FCG about the lack of response to his data subject access request 
(DSAR) and that his details had been shared with third parties without his consent. Mr S 
explained that he had been contacted numerous times on his mobile phone from an 
international number and he believed FCG had shared his details, as it was only after he 
registered for an account with FCG that these calls began. FCG reviewed Mr S concerns 
and agreed that it didnt process Mr Ss date request in a timely manner. FCG explained that 
it used Mr S details to carry out the necessary verification and fraud checks, but that it had 
not shared his details with any other third parties.  
Mr S was dissatisfied with FCGs review of his complaint and referred his concerns to our 
service. An Investigator considered Mr Ss points alongside information provided by FCG 
and found that it had responded fairly to Mr S complaint. The Investigator found the service 
had been poor for processing Mr Ss data request and the £100 offered in recognition of this 
was adequate. They also found that FCG had provided the necessary assurances regarding 
Mr S personal details and there wasnt any evidence to suggest FCG had unnecessarily 
shared Mr Ss personal details. 
Mr S remained unhappy with the review of his complaint and asked for it to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I appreciate Mr S strength of feeling about his complaint, Im satisfied 
FCG has acted reasonably. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I think it would be helpful to clarify my role in this dispute. My role is to consider 
whether FCG acted fairly and reasonably in responding to Mr S complaint and DSAR 
request. It isnt the role of our service to comment on the content of a DSAR. So, if Mr S is 
unhappy with the information provided, this is a matter for the ICO. I also wont be 
commenting on FCGs privacy policy and how it processes personal data and its approach to 
data security. These are GDPR issues which fall outside this services remit. 
Ive considered how FCG treated Mr S when he made his DSAR request. I can see Mr S 
made his request in January 2022. However, it was only when he complained about the lack 
of response that Mr S request was actioned. Mr S eventually received the information he 
was entitled to under the DSAR in August 2022. Mr S experienced undue delay in receiving 
the necessary information, and FCG has accepted it provided poor service here. FCG 
apologised and offered Mr S £100 in recognition of its shortcomings. This offer is in line with 
this services approach to awards for distress and inconvenience and I am satisfied it fairly 
recognises the impact of the service failings on Mr S. 
Mr S is clearly very concerned about his data being shared with third parties by FCG. I can 
see FCG looked into this complaint point and explained to Mr S how it handles personal 
data. It has provided assurances that Mr S personal details werent shared with third parties 
that are not directly necessary for the process of verification or fraud checks. It also 
confirmed that it carried out checks and there was no evidence to suggest that its systems 
were compromised or there was a data leak. FCG referred to its privacy policy and explained 
that Mr S data had been handled in line with its terms. 
I appreciate Mr S is not persuaded by FCGs comments, as he says the calls began around 
the same time he registered for an account with FCG. Mr S says the calls constitute 
harassment as they were so frequent. I am sorry to hear of the impact these repeated calls 
had on Mr S. But I havent seen any evidence which suggests FCG was responsible for the 
calls Mr S has complained about. FCG has confirmed it made six calls to Mr S in January 
2022 regarding his account, and I dont think this is unreasonable. 
We are an evidence-based service, and when reaching my decision, I must consider what is 
fair and reasonable based on the available evidence. In Mr Ss case Im satisfied FCG has 
taken Mr Ss concerns seriously and carried out a detailed review of his concerns. This 
review hasnt uncovered any untoward use of Mr S personal data, and without evidence to 
the contrary I am unable to find FCG at fault here.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached on his complaint. But this 
final decision ends what our service can do for him. However, he can reject my decision and 
pursue the matter elsewhere if he wishes to do so.
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above, The Foremost Currency Group Limited should pay Mr S 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S as a result of its delay in handling 
his DSAR. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require The Foremost Currency Group Limited to put things right 
by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman