DRN-3897714
The complaint
Mr K complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) declined his claim 
for the theft of his car under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ks car was stolen shortly after a prospective buyer had viewed it. This happened in 
September 2021. He reported the theft to the police and contacted Advantage to make a 
claim under his policy. 
After interviewing Mr K and analysing his two key fobs, Advantage declined his claim In 
November 2021. It says one of the key fobs wasnt programmed to the car and so couldnt 
be used to open it or to start the engine. It thought the car was likely stolen by the 
prospective buyer who had swapped the real key with another one without Mr K noticing. 
Advantage relied on a policy exclusion that says it doesnt cover loss or damage if someone 
claiming to be a buyer or agent takes possession of a car deceitfully.  
Mr K didnt think this was fair. He appealed, but Advantage didnt change its decision. It 
made its decision in January 2022, but Mr K wasnt made aware of this until May when he 
contacted Advantage for an update. It sent Mr K a cheque for £60 to acknowledge the delay 
in informing him of the outcome of his appeal. 
Mr K thought Advantage should accept his claim and asked our service to consider the 
matter. Our investigator upheld his complaint. He didnt think Advantage had applied its 
exclusion clause fairly. He says the terms are specific and refer to taking the car by deceit. 
He didnt think possession of the car was taken by deceit, but rather it was the keys that had 
been taken by deceit. 
Our investigator says the theft of the car took place after this. So, it wasnt fair for Advantage 
to rely on this exclusion, and it should reconsider the claim based on the remaining policy 
terms. 
Advantage didnt agree. It says the thieves took possession of the car deceitfully by 
swopping the keys. It says Mr K held no information about the prospective buyer but handed 
over the keys and allowed them to view the vehicle with him standing outside. Because it 
didnt agree with our investigators decision, Advantage asked for an ombudsman to 
consider Mr Ks complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Let me explain. 
In its decline decision Advantage refers to the following exclusion from its policy terms:
Youre not covered for:
Loss or damage if someone claiming to be a buyer or agent takes possession of your Car 
deceitfully
I think the exclusion is clearly worded. If Advantage can show possession of Mr Ks car was 
taken deceitfully by a prospective buyer, then on the face of it the claim can reasonably be 
declined.
Ive read the report Advantage obtained from its forensic key specialist. The expert 
examined both key fobs that Mr K supplied. The report says Mr K was supplied with two 
keys when he bought the car. It says the keys were last used by the prospective buyer who 
was sat in the vehicle with the engine running whilst their friend was looking under the 
bonnet. 
In the report the expert says one of the keys is a genuine key fob and shows signs of wear 
and tear, as would be expected. He says the remote-control function works correctly and the 
immobiliser data stored within the key was accessed and read. The expert couldnt confirm if 
the key was programmed to Mr Ks vehicle. He suggested if this information was needed the 
car manufacturer should be contacted. 
The report says the other key is new and non-genuine. It isnt coded to any vehicle meaning 
its not possible for the key to work with any vehicle. The expert says the key blade is uncut 
and also wouldnt operate the doors on any vehicle. He concludes that as one of the keys 
isnt original the prospective buyer may have swopped this with the genuine key fob when Mr 
K wasnt looking.
I note Advantages comment that Mr K hadnt reported an issue with one of his keys not 
working. It thought it was likely the prospective buyer had swapped one of the keys and had 
returned sometime later to take the car using an original key. 
Ive read the records Advantage has provided to understand what Mr K says happened 
when the prospective buyer came to view his car. Mr K says he started the engine with one 
of the keys and he had the other one in his pocket. The prospective buyer was sat in the 
drivers seat. He says it was the prospective buyer who turned off the engine and handed 
him the key back. Mr K was outside the car during this time. After the buyer had finished his 
inspection, Mr K says he walked back to his car, unlocked it and showed the prospective 
buyer the V5 document. He then locked the car again.
We asked Mr K for some more details of what happened during the inspection. He says 
there was another man, he refers to as the prospective buyers technician, who was stood at 
the front of the car. The buyer opened the bonnet and the technician asked Mr K questions 
about a small oil leak. Mr K says he was outside the car and was answering questions to 
both of the men. This required him to move between them in order to answer their queries. 
Mr K says he was outside the car as the technician had wanted to point out the oil leak in the 
engine. He says all of this took about five minutes and the drivers side door was open 
throughout. 
From the records Mr K was offered the asking price for his car. He refused to accept a part 
cash payment and directed the buyer to a local bank to transfer the monies in full to his 
account. After two hours Mr K rang the phone number he had been given by the prospective 
buyer, but it wasnt in service. He then went to check on the car and found it had been taken. 
He phoned the police at this point.Ive thought carefully about whether its fair and reasonable for Advantage to rely on the 
exclusion it has to decline Mr Ks claim for the theft of his car. I dont think it is. In part this is 
because of the wording used in the exclusion it relied on. 
The terms specifically exclude the claim if someone claiming to be a buyer, takes 
possession of your car deceitfully. According to Advantage, possession of the key was 
taken deceitfully. Not the car. I note its comments that the deceitful taking of the keys was 
undertaken by the prospective buyer in order to take the car. But it still remains that it was 
the key that was taken deceitfully not the car. 
Our established approach when considering whether exclusions such as this have been 
used fairly, is to consider the intention behind the term. We think that this is to exclude 
claims where the policyholder hasnt taken reasonable steps to protect their vehicle. In its 
submissions to our service Advantage states this is what happened here, as in its view Mr K 
failed to safeguard his vehicle. But having considered his testimony I dont think this is a fair 
conclusion. 
Mr K was next to the car at all times whilst the prospective buyer was sat in the drivers seat 
with the door open. Mr K started the engine. The bonnet was open, and the other man was 
outside of the car apparently inspecting the engine bay. Mr K says he was moving between 
both men answering questions in close proximity to the car. I think Mr Ks positioning during 
this inspection reasonably prevented the car from being driven away. Particularly as one of 
the men was outside of the vehicle and the bonnet was open. He didnt leave the men 
unattended and was in a position to intervene if needed. I think this shows Mr K behaved 
reasonably to safeguard his car. 
Mr K says he locked his car. But then returned to it to show the prospective buyer the V5 
document. He then locked the car again. Based on the key experts report one of the keys 
wouldnt have worked, which is the one the prospective buyer handed back. Ive thought 
about what this means. 
Mr K says he had one key in his pocket and the other was handed back to him by the 
prospective buyer after the inspection. This means he had a working key on his person when 
he locked the car and then when he returned to it to view the V5 document. I have no reason 
to doubt Mr Ks testimony that he locked and later unlocked the car. The evidence doesnt 
contradict what he says happened. 
Mr K says he didnt accept a partial cash payment and insisted the money was provided by a 
bank transfer. He didnt relinquish possession of his car, and from his testimony didnt intend 
to, until he had confirmation that the transfer was complete. Again, this shows Mr K was 
mindful of a deception occurring and behaved reasonably to ensure his car was 
safeguarded. 
Based on the evidence it appears likely that the prospective buyer switched a genuine key 
with a false one. But I dont think its been shown that Mr K behaved irresponsibly or that he 
failed to reasonably safeguard his car. Because of this I dont think Advantage has treated 
Mr K fairly. Because of this it should reconsider his claim, under the remaining policy terms, 
without relying on the deception exclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint. Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
should:
reconsider Mr Ks claim without relying on the deception exclusion, in line with the remaining terms of his policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman