DRN-1442492
 
The complaint
Mr R says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in January 1992. The policy was 
added to Mr Rs credit card account when he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint. This was because as Mr R was 60 when he took the 
policy out, he didnt seem to be eligible for it. So it wouldnt have been of any use to him.
Capital One also said it didnt agree with what our adjudicator has said. It said Mr R wouldve 
had to be between 18 and 64 years old to be eligible for the policy. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case.
Ive looked at what Capital One has said. But I dont think this shows Mr R was eligible for 
the policy when he took it out in January 1997. From what the ombudsman service knows 
about PPI policies Capital One sold before June 1999, we understand that to be eligible a 
consumer needed to be between 18 and 59. So it seems the eligibility criteria changed at 
some point after Mr R took out his policy. 
Capital One hasnt given me any evidence to show that the eligibility criteria set out in what 
we know is wrong. So Im happy that for Mr R to be eligible for the policy he wouldve had to 
be between 18 and 59 when he took it out.
As Mr R was over 59 years old when he bought the policy, I dont think he was eligible for it. 
So it wouldnt have been of any use to him and I still think Mr Rs complaint should be 
upheld.
Putting things right
Capital One should put Mr R in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI. 
A. Capital One should find out how much Mr R would owe on his credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Capital One should then refund the difference between what Mr R owes and what he 
would have owed.
    If Mr R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Capital One can take off what    
    he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. If  when Capital One works out what Mr R would have owed each month without 
PPI  Mr R paid more than enough to clear his balance, Capital One should also pay 
simple interest on the extra Mr R paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the 
point when Mr R wouldve owed Capital One something on his credit card. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. Capital One should tell Mr R what its done to work out A and B.
If a commission payment has already been paid to Mr R, that amount can be deducted from 
the above calculation. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Capital One to take off tax from this interest. Capital 
One must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Capital One (Europe) plc should pay Mr R compensation in line with the instructions set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Sonia Hussain
Ombudsman