DRN-1991387
 
The complaint
Mr F is complaining about Legal and General Assurance Society Limited following its 
decision to decline a claim on his critical illness insurance. Hes also unhappy with how the 
claim was handled. In particular, he says Legal & General incorrectly raised his hopes during 
a telephone conversation at the outset and that it took too long to reach its decision.
What happened
In 2011, Mr F took a level term life and critical illness insurance policy with Legal and 
General. The policy included cover for total and permanent disability (TPD). 
Sadly, Mr F was subsequently diagnosed with fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue syndrome 
that resulted in him being retired early from his occupation on ill-health grounds. When he 
claimed on the policy, Legal and General said he didnt meet the criteria for a successful 
TPD claim and declined to pay. But following Mr Fs complaint, it accepted there were 
unnecessary delays in responding to the claim and it paid compensation of £200.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He felt the medical evidence 
showed Mr F didnt meet the policy definition of TPD and that Legal and General was 
entitled to decline his claim. In terms of Mr Fs initial discussions with its claim assessor, he 
felt it was right for Legal and General to go on to consider the claim. He also felt the 
compensation it paid for delays in the process was fair.
Mr F didnt accept the investigators assessment and raised the following key points:
 
His expectations werent correctly set at the outset when he discussed his symptoms 
with Legal and Generals claim assessor on the telephone. He was incorrectly led to 
believe his ability to perform certain tasks was only a guide and that other factors 
would be taken into account.
When the claim was assessed, Legal and General should have sought information 
from his occupational therapy doctor who was a specialist in fibromyalgia and had 
been dealing with him for some time. Instead, Legal and General relied on a report 
from a brief independent medical examination.
He also has concerns about the accuracy of the report completed by the independent 
examiner and the way in which the assessment was completed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before going any further, I was sorry to learn of Mr Fs health problems and I realise hes 
been going through a difficult time.
The claim decision
In terms of any TPD claim, Mr Fs policy schedule confirms that due to his occupation a 
claim would be based on  functional assessment tests. The policy terms define TPD in these 
circumstances as follows:
Functional Assessment Tests Disability Criteria
Immediately before the onset of disability, if the life assured is:
 not in gainful occupation
 in gainful occupation and the functional assessment tests disability criteria, is shown 
in the policy schedule under the occupation definition section, in the event of a claim 
the sum assured will be payable if all of the following conditions apply:
i) the life assured suffers through illness or accident a mental or physical irreversible 
disability,
ii) in the opinion of our Medical Officer the life assured is permanently unable to 
perform without the direct assistance of another person, three or more of the 
functional assessment tests listed below:
Walking:
The ability to walk a distance of 200 metres on flat ground with or without the aid of a 
walking stick and without stopping or experiencing discomfort.
Bending:
The ability to get into or out of a standard saloon car and the ability to bend or kneel 
to pick up an object from the floor and straighten up again.
Climbing:
Having the ability to climb up a flight of 12 stairs without stopping or suffering severe 
discomfort.
Communicating:
The ability to answer a telephone and to take a message.
Reading:
Having the required eyesight (corrected if necessary) to be able to read a daily 
newspaper.
Writing:
Having the physical ability to write legibly using a pen or a pencil without aid.
In simple terms, this means that for a claim to be paid, the available medical evidence needs 
to show Mr F is totally and permanently disabled. In this context, disabled is defined as being 
unable to perform three or more of the listed activities. I appreciate Mr F has been retired 
early from his occupation on health grounds, but this isnt in itself a factor in the assessment 
of a claim on his critical illness cover.
To assess whether Mr Fs condition met the policy definition of TPD, Legal and General 
contacted his consultant rheumatologist. He provided a lot of information about Mr Fs 
medical history and in respect of his prognosis, he said:
It is very difficult to comment on the prognosis. Fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue are 
highly variable diseases with a large spectrum of severity. Fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue can improve with the strategies listed above, but is also prone to flaring during 
periods of stress or illness.
In respect of his ability to perform the relevant tasks, the consultant said:
I have no definitive information regarding the impact of his conditions on specific 
activities of daily living or the extent of Mr Fs disability.
On the basis that the consultant couldnt confirm the level of Mr Fs disability was likely to be 
permanent, I think theres an argument for saying Legal and General could have declined 
the claim at this stage. Instead, and presumably because the consultant couldnt comment 
on Mr Fs ability to carry out the specific tasks, it arranged an independent examination. The 
examiner completed an assessment of Mr Fs ability to perform the six tasks listed in the 
policy terms and concluded:
Following the completion of the ADW assessment, Mr F was able to perform all six 
key areas of Activities of Daily Living as per his policy and it was the opinion of the 
assessor that he would remain able to do so for the foreseeable future, dependent on 
his medical and functional circumstances. 
In view of this assessment, and those of his consultant on his prognosis, I think it was 
reasonable for Legal and General to conclude Mr F wasnt totally and permanently disabled 
as defined in the policy and therefore didnt meet the criteria for a successful claim.
I can see Mr F thinks Legal and General should have contacted a different consultant that 
hed been seeing in connection with his work. But its likely to be the case that anyone he 
saw through work would have been focused on his ability to carry out his job rather than to 
perform the activities set out in the policy terms. Either way, I think the decision to initially 
approach the consultant rheumatologist and then arrange an independent examination to 
address the points he couldnt comment on was reasonable. That said, if Mr F can obtain 
further medical evidence that he thinks supports his claim, theres nothing to stop him 
presenting that to Legal and General in the first instance so it can reconsider its decision.
The report of the independent assessor was clearly an important factor in Legal and 
Generals assessment of his claim and I note Mr F has some concerns about how the 
examination was carried out. But based on the available evidence, I dont think I can 
reasonably support that view. The assessor appears to have been appropriately qualified to 
complete the examination and Im satisfied the issues assessed were relevant to the claim 
being considered. If Mr F believes there were issues with how his individual examination was 
conducted, hed need to take that up with the organisation responsible for carrying it out. 
Again, if this were to lead to evidence that casts doubt on its claim decision, Mr F would be 
able to present that to Legal and General in the first instance.
Legal and Generals handling of the claim
With the benefit of hindsight, I understand why Mr F may now think it would have been better 
if Legal and General had told him on the telephone at the outset that his claim wouldnt 
succeed. But its important to remember that TPD claims can be complex and often require 
detailed investigation. In the circumstances and without access to reports from relevant 
medical professionals, I think it was the right thing for Legal and General to want to 
investigate the claim fully before deciding whether to pay out. Its unfortunate if this raised Mr 
Fs hopes, but I certainly think that approach was preferable to telling him he didnt have a 
valid claim without investigating it properly.Its unfortunate the claim took some time to resolve, but thats not necessarily unusual in 
view of the evidence requested and the need to arrange an independent assessment when 
the submissions from Mr Fs consultant wasnt considered to be conclusive. This said, Legal 
and General did identify a couple of occasions where it should have acted more promptly.
Any delay in resolving Mr Fs claim, particularly given the difficulties he faces with his health, 
would have no doubt caused him unnecessary trouble and upset and I think its right that he 
should be compensated for that. The precise impact of these issues on Mr F, and therefore 
the amount thats due, can be difficult to assess. But in the circumstances, I think a 
moderate payment of £200 is fair and reasonable. I understand Mr F has already received 
this money, but if not, he should let Legal and General know if he now wants to accept it.
Finally
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment for Mr F and isnt what he was 
hoping to hear. But on balance, I think the evidence shows Legal and General was entitled 
to decline his claim. I also think it was right to decide it should investigate his claim fully 
before reaching that decision. That said, there was some unnecessary delay in the and Im 
satisfied Legal and General has paid appropriate compensation for any trouble and upset 
this caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
James Biles
Ombudsman