DRN-3933191
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs Y complain Santander UK Plc unfairly declined their mortgage application and 
took too long to assess it meaning they missed out on better interest rates, and also incurred 
other unnecessary costs. 
What happened
In April 2022 Mr H and Mrs Y applied for a first-time buyer mortgage, their application was 
refused because Mr Hs credit profile had been incorrectly linked to another party. Mr H and 
Mrs Y had to register a notice of correction on Mr Hs credit file. 
In June 2022 Mr H and Mrs Y applied for another mortgage with Santander, this time they 
applied through a broker. During the process Santander considered Mr H and Mrs Ys 
application, it requested further information from their broker to assess it. In August 2022 
Santander declined the application. 
Mr H and Mrs Y werent happy so complained to Santander. Santander considered an 
appeal to the application and asked their broker to resubmit the application and provide 
some additional information it needed. Santander considered the further information 
provided but it declined the application again in September 2022.
Mr H and Mrs Y remained unhappy so referred their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator said Santander hadnt acted unfairly in declining the application and didnt think 
it took an unreasonable amount of time to process the application.
Mr H and Mrs Y didnt agree. They didnt feel Santander had fairly declined the application 
because theyd managed to secure a mortgage with another lender. They also felt 
Santander had taken too long to deal with the application which resulted in them incurring 
other costs and having to settle for a higher interest rate with the other lender.
As Mr H and Mrs Y didnt agree it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Mr H and Mrs Ys complaint falls broadly into two parts. Whether Santander assessed their 
application fairly. And whether it caused delays with their house purchase, resulting in them 
having to pay other costs and settle for a higher interest because of the delays. 
Assessment of the mortgage application
Mr H and Mrs Y made two applications to Santander, the first was for a first-time buyer 
mortgage which was declined. Santander reasonably considered the information it had on 
the credit file at the time, so I dont think it was unreasonable of it to decline the first 
application in the circumstances. The reason for this was Mr Hs credit file was showing he 
already had a mortgage, but this was incorrect as his credit file had been mistakenly linked 
to another party. I understand the issue with Mr Hs credit file has been dealt with as a 
separate complaint, so I wont be making any findings on this here as part of this complaint.    
Rules on mortgage regulation require lenders to carry out a stringent affordability 
assessment before offering a mortgage. Santander assessed Mr H and Mrs Ys second 
application as unaffordable. It didnt include Mr Hs second income because it didnt think 
him working 70 hours per week was sustainable for the term of the mortgage.  
Santander also discounted Mrs Ys income; this was because the declared income at the 
time of the application on 27 June 2022 for Mrs Y was paid through Mr Hs company. From 
the information provided the source of these funds came from Mr Hs salary, which he ran 
through his company account, so Santander said this was double counting the income of     
Mr H.
Mr H and Mrs Y didnt think this was fair, they said Mr H was able to work the hours because 
of the type of employment. They also said he had further income from his self-employed 
business. And said Mrs Y had a second income which hadnt been considered. Santander 
agreed to look into the application again and asked Mr H and Mrs Ys broker to resubmit the 
application with the further information it needed. 
After considering the additional information provided on the incomes of Mr H and Mrs Y 
Santander still werent satisfied that they could afford the mortgage on the income 
information provided so it declined the application. Ive seen the internal notes provided by 
Santander and Im satisfied it considered all the information provided by Mr H and Mrs Ys 
broker on the application fairly. I dont think this was unreasonable as it was for Santander to 
decide on the risk it was willing to take in its lending.
Each lender has its own lending policies. While Mr H and Mrs Y were offered a mortgage by 
another lender that doesnt mean Santander made an error or acted unfairly when it declined 
their application.
Did Santander cause unnecessary delays?
Mr H and Mrs Y made their second application through a broker on 24 June 2022. The 
application wasnt accepted but it wasnt declined either. At this stage Santander needed 
further information from Mr H and Mrs Ys broker to start considering the application.
The broker provided the documentary evidence requested by Santander on 27 June 2022. 
This was considered but further information was needed to process the application, this isnt 
unusual in these types of applications. Santander requested more information from the 
broker on 13 July 2022, which was provided on 19 July 2022. After validating the information 
this was passed to the underwriting team on 29 July 2022. Mr H and Mrs Ys broker was 
contacted on 3 August to let him know the application had been declined. 
Mr H and Mrs Y then complained to Santander about the declining of the application, so it 
agreed to meet with their broker to explain the reasons. Because the broker provided further 
information, that hadnt been provided previously, Santander agreed to allow Mr H and     
Mrs Y to resubmit the application through the broker with the addition information, even 
though the normal appeal window had expired. The application was resubmitted on 6 
September 2022 but because the information provided wasnt sufficient to satisfy Santander 
that the mortgage was affordable for Mr H and Mrs Y it was declined on 13 September 2022.    I dont think Santander caused any unnecessary delays with Mr H and Mrs Ys application 
because once provided with the information needed it informed their broker it declined their 
mortgage application in 11 days. Subsequently when the application was resubmitted it 
informed the broker in five days. 
During this period Mr H and Mrs Y had agreements in principle (AIP) with other lenders. So if 
theyd wanted to proceed with their purchase sooner they could have done so. Mr H and  
Mrs Y have said theyve incurred other costs as a result of the delays, but I dont agree that 
Santander caused any unnecessary delays when assessing their application. So it follows 
that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Santander to compensate Mr H and Mrs Y 
for any losses they may have incurred.   
I dont think Santander made an error or treated Mr H and Mrs Y unfairly. While I know Mr H 
and Mrs Y will be disappointed, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Santander to 
compensate them.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman