DRN-2698256
The complaint
Miss M complains Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as TSB Bank plc) mis-sold her a
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Miss M took out a mortgage with Lloyds in 1994 and bought a PPI policy at around the same
time.
Miss M says the PPI was a condition of the mortgage. She says she didnt need it.
In my provisional decision of 11 February 2021, I explained why I didnt intend to uphold 
Miss Ms complaint. Neither Miss M nor Lloyds has responded to my provisional decision, 
which has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Ms complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said: 
In her view on Miss Ms complaint, our adjudicator said that, given the length of time since
the sale, there was very limited information available for her to safely conclude the policy
wasnt presented to Miss M as optional.
Miss M has sent us some paperwork from the time. One of these is a copy of a repayment
mortgage quotation for a fixed rate mortgage (which I understand is the mortgage Miss M
took out). This says Miss M is required to apply for PPI as a condition of the mortgage.
From this information, I think Miss Ms PPI was (as shes said) a condition of the mortgage
and so compulsory. But this doesnt mean I should automatically uphold her complaint.
Thats because Lloyds was allowed to make PPI a condition of its mortgages. But it had to
make this clear to its customers. So thats what Ive looked at in Miss Ms case.
As well as the mortgage quotation, Ive also looked at a summary of needs form Miss M
also sent us. It looks like this was filled in when Miss M was discussing her mortgage
requirements with Lloyds. The form has a section on mortgage repayment planning. This
says that during a mortgage interview at the branch it was discovered that a mortgage
protection plan was required to cover a first-time buyers mortgage.
So it looks to me as if Miss M wanted to take out a particular mortgage with Lloyds. And
taking that mortgage meant she was also required to take out a PPI policy on it. From both
the mortgage quotation and the summary of needs form, I think its clear PPI was a condition
of the mortgage. I think its also clear from what the summary of needs form says that
Miss M knew this and agreed to it. And if she hadnt wanted the PPI, she couldve looked for
another mortgage where it wasnt compulsory. Because of all of this, I dont think it would be
fair and reasonable to uphold Miss Ms complaint on this point.
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Miss Ms complaint
but, from the information Ive seen so far, I dont think there are. Lloyds says it
recommended the PPI to Miss M so it needed to make sure it was right for her. I dont know
what steps Lloyds took to do this but from what Miss M says of her circumstances at the time
and the policy summary shes sent us, I think it was right for her. I say this because, based
on these things:
Its likely Miss M was eligible for the PPI. And is doesnt seem as if she was affected
by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  like known health issues or
unusual employment arrangements. So there was nothing to stop Miss M claiming
the full policy benefit if shed needed to.
Miss M says the policy wouldnt have covered her if shed developed backache or
related conditions, and she says this is something she was particularly at risk of in
her occupation. But I dont think the policy limitation for backache  which the policy
summary says wouldnt have applied if there was medical evidence of radiological
disability resulting in abnormality  wouldve been onerous for Miss M. So it doesnt
change my conclusions on this point.
I think the PPI couldve been of some use to Miss M. She says she wouldve got six
months full pay then six months half pay if she was off work sick. But the PPI
wouldve given her a monthly benefit for up to 12 months for each successful
accident or sickness claim she made. And this wouldve been on top of Miss Ms sick
pay. It would also have paid out in the same way if Miss M lost her job. Miss M has
told us she also had some savings. But the paperwork shes sent us from her
mortgage interview says she had no long-term savings.
A mortgage is a significant and long-term financial commitment  and your home is at
risk is you fall behind on your repayments. So I think the PPI policy gave Miss M
useful protection on top of her workplace benefits.
I havent seen anything to make me think Miss M couldnt afford the cover. And the
monthly cost of the PPI at the time of the mortgage quotation was set out in the
paperwork Miss M has sent us, so I think this was reasonably clear.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Miss M, Lloyds also had to give her enough
clear information about the policy for her to be able to make an informed decision about
whether or not she wanted it. I dont know what steps Lloyds took to do this. But, as Ive
said, I think it was clear to Miss M that, if she wanted the particular mortgage she was taking,
PPI was compulsory. And I think the protection it offered was suitable for her. From this it
follows that, based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPIpremium)  so it shouldve told Miss M about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Miss M, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.
As Ive already mentioned, neither Miss M nor Lloyds has responded to my provisional 
decision. And having looked at Miss Ms complaint again, I havent found any reason to 
change any of the findings I set out in it. So these now form part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit share it
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman