DRN-3567138
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Equifax Limited removed a notice from his credit file.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
Sometime in 2020, Mr L disputed some information on his Equifax credit file. He had been 
the victim of fraud. Equifax added an automatic notice of dispute to his file, which let lenders 
know that information had been disputed.
In late 2020, Mr L added a notice of correction with a password. He later removed this 
himself.
Following the dispute, the automatic notice of dispute from earlier in 2020 eventually fell off 
Mr Ls credit file.
Mr L complained. He accepted that hed removed the late 2020 notice himself, but was 
unhappy that the earlier notice had come off his credit file. He was concerned that hed been 
left vulnerable and exposed to further fraud.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L didnt 
agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr L and Equifax a provisional decision on 6 June 2022, to explain why I didnt think 
Equifax needed to do anything further. That decision went along these lines:
First of all, I will say that I understand Mr L has been the victim of a crime here, and so he 
has my sympathy. I appreciate that the fraudster or fraudsters will have caused him a great 
deal of stress, and that he wants to keep his credit file safe.
With that in mind, I hope I can reassure Mr L that the earlier notice was just an automatic, 
generic message. The credit reference agency adds this when someone disputes something 
on their credit file  whether the dispute is because of fraud, or a disagreement with the 
lender, or any other reason.
That notice is not there to protect one against fraud and it does not specifically tell lenders 
there was fraud  its just there to let lenders know that information has been disputed. And it 
is supposed to drop off ones credit file after the dispute is over  that normally happens 
automatically. I understand that in this case, Mr L disputed some search entries that were 
related to the fraud. Thats why that notice was added. And some time after that dispute was 
resolved, the notice came off his credit file as normal. Equifax did not need to ask Mr L for 
permission for the notice to drop off. This was not a notice which Mr L added himself, but an 
automatic one which Equifax added themselves. And it was supposed to fall off his file.
The only other notice was the notice of correction which Mr L added himself later on, which 
was correctly removed at his own request.
So I cant see that Equifax did anything substantially wrong here  it looks like things broadly 
happened as they should have.
I understand Mr L was under the impression that this automatic notice of dispute would 
protect him from fraud. But thats not what its there for, and I cant see that Equifax told Mr L 
it would stop fraud. Again, I hope I can reassure Mr L that the notices expiration was normal, 
and it doesnt make him vulnerable to crime. The other measures that have been taken will 
help stop further fraudulent accounts from being opened in Mr Ls name  he did not need 
the automatic dispute notice to do that.
Mr L mentioned that Equifax never offered to put a notice of correction back on. But I can 
see that in their response to his complaint, they offered to add a notice of correction back on 
for him, and they let him know he could do this in their help centre, or as a new case, or by 
simply responding to their email. So they offered him several options for how to do this. And 
Mr L was always free to otherwise add a notice of correction in the same way he did before.
So while I appreciate where Mr Ls coming from, based on what Ive seen so far I cant see 
that Equifax got anything substantially wrong here. It follows that I dont plan to award any 
compensation in this particular case. 
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. Both sides confirmed they 
broadly accepted the decision. Mr L asked if I could change some of the wording in the 
decision for privacy reasons, which Ive done above. The core of the decision has stayed 
the same, and we normally find our existing anonymisation to be sufficient, but hopefully 
those adjustments will help grant some further peace of mind.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side sent in any materially new evidence or arguments about the merits of the case. 
So having reconsidered the complaint, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for 
the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I dont require Equifax Limited to do anything further in this particular case.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman