DRN-3463677
The complaint
Mr H complains that Reassured Ltd omitted relevant information relating to his medical 
history when they submitted a life and critical illness cover application on his behalf. And 
that, upon amendments to the policy application being made, the insurer wasnt prepared to 
offer him cover. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In July 2021 Reassured obtained life and critical illness quotes from three insurance 
providers for Mr H. After receiving these, Mr H applied for life and critical illness cover with 
the most competitively priced insurer. As part of the application, Reassured went through a 
health and lifestyle questionnaire with Mr H and asked him whether he had ever been 
admitted overnight to hospital or referred to a psychiatrist for mental illness, anorexia or 
bulimia? Mr H answered this yes. 
As part of the follow up questions to this disclosure, Mr H confirmed that hed suffered from 
anxiety and stress that required hospital admissions with the last inpatient stay being 20 
years ago. And that he was currently taking medication for the condition. But hed never tried 
or planned to harm himself, and he no longer had any symptoms of the condition. Mr H also 
confirmed hed claimed government benefits, allowance or credits due to disability or illness, 
or retired early due to this condition. 
The insurer accepted the application albeit at a higher premium. 
Upon reviewing the policy documentation, Mr H told Reassured that hed found a correction 
needed in respect of his medical history. That being a consultation he had with a consultant 
psychiatrist earlier that year  which he said he explained to them when applying for the 
policy. Reassured then passed the information on to the insurer.
After reviewing this additional information about Mr Hs medical history, the insurer wrote to 
him on 19 July 2021 saying that they needed some further information from his GP. And, 
after receiving this, they wrote to Mr H on 13 August 2021 explaining now they knew the full 
extent of his mental health condition, they couldnt offer him any cover. 
Mr H complained to Reassured about this as he was unhappy theyd left out details of the 
consultation in his application. 
Reassured rejected the complaint. In short, they said:
They asked Mr H all the follow up questions regarding his anxiety and stress 
condition after he confirmed that hed been admitted overnight to hospital or referred 
to a psychiatrist for mental illness.
A further application question asked whether apart from anything you've already told 
us about in this application, during the last 5 years have you contacted a doctor, 
nurse or other health professional for: anxiety, depression or stress that's required 
treatment or counselling, or chronic fatigue syndrome? This was answered no as 
the application states that anything thats already been disclosed doesnt need to be 
disclosed again.
As anxiety and stress had already been disclosed earlier in the application, it didnt 
need to be again. And all the relevant questions about Mr Hs anxiety and stress 
were asked and answered. These however didnt ask about dates of psychiatric 
consultations, therefore there wasnt anywhere for it to be disclosed. 
Mr H referred the matter to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt think 
Reassured had to do anything further. She thought Reassured answered the application 
questions to the best of their ability based on the information Mr H provided. She also 
thought it was reasonable for Reassured to ask Mr H to check the answers provided in the 
application to make sure they were accurate, and for amendments to be made if necessary. 
Mr H disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
Before I explain the reasons for the decision Ive reached, I want to clarify that Im only 
considering Mr Hs concerns about Reassured here. I wont be commenting on the insurers 
decision not to offer cover, as thats already been decided  by myself - as a separate 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr H feels very strongly that the insurers decision to refuse cover  after initially 
accepting his application  is of no fault of his own. Id like to assure Mr H that Im not 
questioning his character here as I accept he answered the questions openly and honestly. 
That said, I likewise dont consider Reassured completed his application, based on the 
medical information he disclosed, inaccurately. Let me explain why.
Having listened to the application call, Im satisfied Mr H told Reassured that hed recently 
had a psychiatric consultation. So, Ive looked at whether Reassured acted wrongly by not 
including it in the application submitted to Legal and General. 
As Reassured explained in their response to Mr Hs complaint, his anxiety and stress was 
disclosed in the application under the Health - ever section where he was asked whether he 
had ever been admitted overnight to hospital or referred to a psychiatrist for mental illness, 
anorexia or bulimia?. This was because Mr H explained that he had a hospital admission 
about 20 years ago and been referred to a psychiatrist due to his anxiety and stress. I 
therefore consider it was reasonable for Reassured to have answered this question yes and 
subsequently ask him the insurers follow up questions about this. At which point, I should 
note that these follow up questions didnt include anything in respect of when Mr H last saw 
a psychiatrist. 
A later application question asked Mr H whether during the last 5 years have you contacted 
a doctor, nurse or other health professional for: anxiety, depression or stress that's required 
treatment or counselling, or chronic fatigue syndrome?. This was answered no on the 
application but then subsequently amended when Mr H informed Reassured that it should be 
corrected as he had a psychiatrist consultation earlier that year (which he told them about). While I understand why Mr H felt this question should be answered differently, I think its 
important to highlight that the question was preceded by apart form anything youve already 
told us about in this application. And, as Mr H is aware, Reassured disclosed his anxiety 
and stress in the previous question  so the insurer had already been told about it. Because 
of this, I think Reassured acted reasonably by not disclosing it again as per the application 
question. It follows that I dont think Reassured made an error when completing the 
application on Mr Hs behalf. Furthermore, I think its relevant to note that even if Reassured 
had answered the question yes then this wouldve still led to insurer declining the claim. So, 
although I appreciate Mr Hs disappointment at what happened, I dont think hes been 
disadvantaged as a result.  
I also consider Reassured acted appropriately by encouraging Mr H check the answers he 
provided to ensure they were accurate. This is because mistakes do happen on occasions 
and I consider it good practice for consumers to check the policy information  including the 
application  to ensure it is correct. In this case, Mr H did this and considered an application 
question to be incorrect. I think it was reasonable for Reassured to change the answer as 
per his instructions. 
I appreciate that following the amendment being made, this led to the insurer requiring 
further medical information before ultimately declining cover. Im aware of Mr Hs 
dissatisfaction about this given that he was told by Reassured that the cover had been 
accepted by the insurer. But, while Im sympathetic to Mr Hs situation, the decision of 
whether cover could be provided lied with the insurer and not Reassured. So, any change in 
the insurers decision wasnt within Reassureds control or something they could influence. 
They could only submit the application based on the information Mr H disclosed and 
instructed them to. And, as Ive explained, Im satisfied Reassured recorded his answers to 
the questions accurately in line with the instructions provided by the insurer.
Ive given careful thought to everything Mr H has said but, for the above reasons, I dont 
think I can fairly hold Reassured responsible for the insurers decision to decline him cover.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman