DRN-4291267
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money applied a cash charge fee 
to his transaction and then didnt refund this when the transaction was refunded. He wants 
the charge and associated interest refunded as well as compensation for the time he has 
spent dealing with this.
What happened
On 3 April 2023, Mr M made a payment using his Virgin Money credit card. The payment 
was treated as a cash advance which he wasnt expecting and a charge of £492.50 was 
applied. Interest was then added. Mr M contacted Virgin Money to ask about the charge and 
was told the transaction was deemed as cash-like and so the charge was applied in line with 
the account terms. He contacted the merchant who agreed to refund the payment so Mr M 
could make alternative payment arrangements. Although the merchant refunded the amount 
paid, Virgin Money didnt refund the cash advance charge. Because of this, Mr M raised a 
complaint.
Virgin Money sent a final response letter dated 19 April 2023. It set out the types of 
transactions that would be deemed to be a cash advance and said these were set out in the 
account terms and conditions. It said that the payment Mr M made on 3 April 2023 was 
deemed a cash transaction and so the cash advance fee was applied. It said that although 
Mr M had repaid the money the fee was incurred for the service provided.  
Mr M wasnt happy with Virgin Moneys response and referred his complaint to this service. 
He said that Virgin Money didnt return his call as promised and that it didnt fully understand 
his complaint noting that Virgin Moneys response said he had repaid the transaction amount 
rather than the amount being refunded. Mr M says that as the original transaction was 
refunded the charges should also be refunded.  
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that Mr Ms transaction fell into the 
category of a cash transaction as per the account terms and so the fee was applied. He 
noted Mr Ms comment about the money being refunded rather than repaid but said that 
Virgin Money had clarified that the letter should have said the money was refunded. He 
didnt find that Virgin Money had done anything wrong by applying the transaction fee and 
then not refunding this.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He didnt accept that Virgin Money saying the 
money was repaid rather than refunded was an error and instead said that Virgin Money 
hadnt taken time to understand his complaint. He said he wasnt disputing that Virgin Money 
couldnt charge the cash advance fee. But that the fee should have been refunded when the 
transaction was refunded. He said there was nothing in the terms and conditions to say this 
wouldnt happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr M is upset that a cash advance fee was applied to his transaction 
as he hadnt expected this. However, Virgin Money has provided details of the transactions 
that will be considered cash advances and evidence that this information had previously 
been provided to Mr M. 
Mr M has said the transaction was a payment to a builder. Given this I do not find it 
unreasonable to accept that the transaction fell within the cash advance transactions set out 
by Virgin Money and I note that Mr M has also said that he wasnt disputing that Virgin 
Money couldnt charge the cash advance fee. Given this I do not find I have evidence to say 
the initial cash advance charge was applied incorrectly.
Once Mr M became aware of the charge being applied to his transaction, he arranged for the 
merchant to refund his transaction so he could make alternative payment arrangements. I 
understand that Mr M thought this would result in the cash advance charge also being 
refunded and why, when this didnt happen, he raised a complaint. But for me to uphold this 
complaint I would need to be satisfied that Virgin Money had done something wrong or 
treated Mr M unfairly. 
I appreciate Mr Ms concern that Virgin Money hadnt fully understood his complaint as it had 
referred to the transaction amount being repaid rather than refunded. However, Virgin 
Money has clarified that it should have referred to the transaction being refunded. It has also 
explained that cash advance fees are non-refundable. I understand that Mr M doesnt think 
that this is fair but as the terms set out the fees that will be applied for a cash advance and 
Mr M made use of the service, I cannot say Virgin Money was wrong to apply the charge. I 
havent seen anything in the account terms to say that a refunded transaction would result in 
the charges applied to that transaction being refunded, so I do not find I can say that Virgin 
Money was required to make the refund. As Virgin Money has confirmed that these charges 
are non-refundable and it has taken its usual approach in regard to Mr Ms situation, I cannot 
say that it has treated him unfairly.
While I know that my decision will be a disappointment to Mr M, in this case I do not find I 
can say that Virgin Money has done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. Therefore, I do 
not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman