DRN-3301361
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Curve OS Limited handled his account after he reported 
fraud. 
What happened
Mr M has an account with Curve which provides a service that allows customers to use 
multiple debit cards from their bank via one card. 
In October 2020 Mr M reported that his Curve card had been stolen whilst abroad and used 
for fraud. Curve contacted Mr M and asked him to confirm the last transaction he recognised 
from his account. Mr M responded and asked for transactions to be refunded. Curve says it 
went on to refund the transactions Mr M disputed and accepted they came about as a result 
of fraud.
In November 2020 Mr M contacted Curve again and asked for a replacement debit card. 
Curve confirmed the outcome of its fraud investigation and asked Mr M to supply personal 
information to allow it to update his address. 
In December 2020 Mr M reported a new transaction for an online membership as fraudulent 
and asked Curve to cancel it. Curve responded a few days later and confirmed the payment 
had been refunded to Mr Ms bank account. 
In June 2021 Mr M contacted Curve again and said hed been a victim of fraud while visiting 
a city. Mr M said hed been unable to follow up with police and asked Curve what it could do 
to help. Curve responded a short time later and asked Mr M for details about the issues 
raised and any unrecognised transactions on his account. A temporary block was placed on 
Mr Ms account. 
Over the following days messages were exchanged between Mr M and Curve so it could 
establish what had happened. It came to light Mr M was contacting Curve regarding the 
fraud issued hed previously reported, in October 2020. Mr M asked for the card block to be 
removed. Curve said the block could be removed at Mr Ms risk and confirmed it could send 
him a replacement card if required. Further emails between Mr M and Curve were 
exchanged but the card block remained in place. 
Curve issued a final response on 23 June 2021 and paid Mr M £10 for delays in coming 
back to him. But Curve didnt agree it had made mistakes by blocking his card and said it 
had acted in line with the account terms and conditions. Curve said Mr M should respond to 
messages hed received from the fraud team in order to remove the card block. On 24 June 
2021 Curve resent the questions it wanted Mr M to respond to. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ms complaint and thought Curve had dealt with it 
fairly. Mr M asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has told us he feels Curve unfairly blocked his account and failed to offer support when 
he reported fraud. Ive looked at Curves actions and considered whether it treated Mr M 
fairly. 
I can see Curve did look at Mr Ms fraud concerns in October 2020 and took the step of 
refunding transactions. When Mr M raised further concerns over an online membership that 
had been paid for using his card, it refunded the transaction. Looking at Curves actions, I 
havent seen any evidence of unreasonable delays or a lack of support. Im satisfied Curve 
took steps to return Mr Ms account to the correct position and that it acted reasonably 
following the report of fraud. 
I think its reasonable to note that Curve confirmed to Mr M that it could only provide limited 
help in terms of the fraud issues raised. Curve messaged Mr M and explained it couldnt 
begin a police investigation on his behalf. Whilst I understand Mr M wasnt able to resolve 
the fraud issues raised with the police before he left the city in question, Im satisfied Curve 
was in a position to do that on his behalf. I havent been persuaded that Curve acted unfairly 
by focusing on the disputed transactions and taking the decision to refund them. 
In June 2021 Mr M asked for more information about his fraud investigation. But as Ive 
noted above, the investigation ended when Mr Ms transactions were refunded. I think its fair 
to say that the messages Curve received werent immediately understood. Reading the 
emails, I appreciate Mr M was referring to the events from 2020. But the messages didnt 
contain specific references to the previous years events. I dont think Curve acted unfairly by 
treating the June 2021 messages as reports of new fraud and blocking Mr Ms card. 
In order to remove the blocks, Curve asked Mr M to confirm some information about his 
account history. Curve asked if there was additional (new) fraud on Mr Ms account and 
asked for the response to be sent in writing. Ive looked at all Mr Ms messages with Curve. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I didnt find any evidence that showed he answer the points 
raised by Curve in full. Mr Ms responses referred Curve to earlier messages and requested 
escalation of his concerns, but I havent seen anything that shows a response containing an 
answer to the question was provided. Without that, I dont think its unfair for Curve to leave 
the block in place.
Mr M has told us he was inconvenienced when he was unable to use his debit card. But the 
account terms allow Curve to apply a block in the circumstances raised. So whilst I 
appreciate the block has caused some problems for Mr M, I havent found Curve acted 
unfairly. 
Curve paid Mr M £10 to apologise for a delay in responding to his concerns. Im satisfied 
Curve has dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly, so Im not telling it to increase the award or take 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint because the business has already paid a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman