DRN-4214733
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that TSB Bank Plc registered a marker against her at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
In early 2021, Mrs K opened a current account with TSB and paid in a small amount of 
money. Her card and PIN were then used to put the account into an unauthorised overdraft 
using two pay at pump petrol transactions.
Pay at pump transactions work by using the card to pre-authorise a payment before the 
exact amount is known. That means its possible to get payments approved that are larger 
than the balance of the account. Fraudsters sometimes take advantage of this by opening 
new accounts and running up overdrafts using pay at pump payments. TSB thought thats 
what Mrs K did here. They closed her account and registered a marker at CIFAS.
Mrs K said she didnt receive the card or PIN. She came to our service.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found that what happened indicated a pay at pump scam had taken place.
Mrs K asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh. She explained that before the card 
and PIN arrived, she had to leave her address and go to temporary accommodation due to 
an emergency situation. She provided letters to back this up. So she says she really didnt 
receive the card or PIN. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mrs K and TSB a provisional decision on 14 June 2023, to explain why I thought the 
marker should now be removed. In that decision, I said:
I need to consider whether this report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, TSB needed 
to have more than just a suspicion or concern. They need to be able to show they had 
reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime had been committed or 
attempted, backed up by evidence which would support it being reported to the authorities.
This case is finely balanced. On the one hand, I accept that the series of events fits with 
what might happen if Mrs K tried a pay at pump scam. And I accept it seems odd that Mrs K 
would order a card and PIN to an address she might be leaving, or that she wouldnt tell TSB 
about the change of address earlier, or that shed make a small credit to the account but not 
otherwise use it. But those points are circumstantial rather than conclusive. And on the other 
hand, I can see that Mrs K had to leave her home in an emergency and take her family with 
her  so I can understand if this account was not at the forefront of her concerns.
TSB have not been able to provide the proper technical evidence to show that Mrs Ks 
genuine card and PIN were used here. So I cant be certain that the disputed payments were 
properly authenticated.
Even if I accept that the genuine card and correct PIN were definitely used, I can see that by 
the time the card and PIN were sent to Mrs K shed left that address. So I cant be 
reasonably satisfied that she received them, and it does leave open the possibility that 
someone else got them instead.
TSB questioned how a fraudster would know that Mrs K had credited the account. But with 
the card and PIN, they could have simply checked the balance. And again, TSB have not 
provided the necessary technical evidence to rule out that any balance checks took place.
TSB also said Mrs K initially told them that shed lost the card, rather than that she didnt 
receive it. But as I understand, that conversation was carried out with a staff member in 
another language, then that staff member translated what was said and relayed it to another 
staff member over the phone, who recorded the notes. So it seems very plausible that there 
could have been some miscommunication there. Mrs K has otherwise been consistent that 
she didnt receive the card, and what shes said seems credible.
I accept I cannot rule out the possibility that Mrs K committed fraud here. But in light of the 
new evidence shes provided, I also cannot rule out that she was the victim of fraud instead. 
Ultimately, the card and PIN were sent to a property that Mrs K was not resident at at that 
time, and so I cannot be reasonably satisfied that she carried out the disputed transactions. 
So I find that TSB no longer have the balance of evidence needed to quite meet the bar of 
keeping this CIFAS marker in place. And so while I am fully conscious of the risk that Mrs K 
did something wrong, I think the risk of Mrs K being an innocent party is too great to justify 
this CIFAS marker remaining.
Ive also thought carefully about whether TSB should pay Mrs K any compensation for 
registering the marker. But Id only award compensation if I thought TSB had done 
something wrong. Here, TSB had sufficient grounds to close Mrs Ks account and register a 
CIFAS marker based on what they knew at the time. After all, it really did look like shed tried 
a pay at pump scam, and they didnt have the letters shes now provided. So it seems 
reasonable that TSB initially put the marker in place. I think it should just be removed now.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, TSB said they didnt feel the evidence proved that 
Mrs K was residing at a different address at the time of the transactions. But they agreed to 
remove the marker in this particular instance.
Im grateful to TSB for agreeing to remove the marker. I accept we cant be certain of where 
Mrs K was at the time of the payments themselves. And I accept that TSB had good reasons 
to add the marker when they did. But the key point is that when the card and PIN were sent, 
Mrs K was no longer at that address. So I cant be reasonably satisfied that she received 
them  its very much plausible that someone else did. And it was that card and PIN which 
were used to make the disputed payments. So I still think that in light of this new evidence, 
the marker should now be removed.In her response to the provisional decision, Mrs K thanked us for helping her, but asked if 
wed also consider directing TSB to pay her compensation. She explained that following the 
addition of the marker, shed faced severe difficulties in receiving an income, in getting 
credit, and in her mental health. 
Im grateful to Mrs K for being open with us about this, and I do recognise how tough the 
times she described would be. I should explain that Id only award compensation here in 
order to put right something which TSB did wrong. But here, TSB didnt get things wrong  
they had sufficient grounds to close Mrs Ks account and register a marker based on what 
they knew at the time. Its only in light of new evidence that I think they should now remove 
it. I also need to keep in mind that, objectively speaking, its still very much plausible that 
Mrs K did commit fraud here. Its just Ive found that TSB no longer quite have the balance of 
evidence needed to safely conclude that she did, and so to keep the marker in place.
Mrs Ks representative also asked about the possibility of reopening this account. I can 
understand why Mrs K might want this, but I cant fairly direct TSB to reopen the account 
here. In much the same way that Mrs K can choose who she banks with, TSB can broadly 
choose who banks with them. And they had a sufficient basis to close the account in the way 
they did here. I dont think it would be appropriate for me to make them reopen it in this case.
So after careful consideration, Ive come to the same conclusion as before. I think the 
disputed transactions and the resulting marker should now be undone, though I dont award 
further compensation.
Putting things right
I direct TSB Bank Plc to:
remove any fraud marker they placed in relation to this incident;
rework the account to remove the disputed transactions and any related interest and 
fees;
pay Mrs K any remaining positive balance thats then left in the account (this should 
be around £1 or so); and-
remove any negative information about the account from Mrs Ks credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold the complaint, and direct TSB Bank Plc to do what 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman