DRN-3205787
The complaint
Mr J complains about how Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited handled his claim made 
on his commercial motor insurance policy. He wants it to allow his No Claims Bonus (NCB).
What happened
Mr J was involved in an accident and he said the other driver initially admitted liability. 
Markerstudy settled Mr Js claim. But then the other insurer disputed liability. So Markerstudy 
asked Mr J to provide the dashcam footage from his car via a card. Markerstudys agent 
collected this but it said it couldnt read it and so it sent it to Markerstudy. But Markerstudy 
didnt receive this. 
Mr J thought this would have proven that he wasnt at fault. He thought Markerstudy should 
allow his NCB. Markerstudy offered Mr J £200 compensation for the upset caused, but Mr J 
declined this. He thought Markerstudy had caused delays in settling the claim. He said his 
premium had increased because of the loss of his NCB whilst the claim remained open.
our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought there 
wasnt evidence to show that the card would have made any difference to the claim as it 
couldnt be read. So she thought this hadnt affected the outcome of the claim. She saw that 
Markerstudy was still disputing liability based on photographs provided by Mr J. The claim 
remained open and the NCB was affected until this dispute was settled. So she thought 
Markerstudys offer of £200 compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Mr J thought that it was suspicious that the other driver was also insured by Markerstudy. He 
thought that as they were in the same organisation, this may have influenced its decisions. 
He wanted evidence that the agent had sent the card back to Markerstudy. Mr J asked for 
his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr J 
and to Markerstudy on 5 November 2021. I summarise my findings:
Mr J said the other driver pulled out of a side road and then hit his car as Mr J tried to avoid 
her. The other driver later said Mr J was doing a U-turn at the time. The investigator had 
already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the 
accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply 
to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it treated Mr J 
the same as someone else in his position. 
Markerstudy is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr J to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr J has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
I could see that Markerstudy had persisted in holding the other driver liable for the accident 
and had repeatedly requested the other insurer to accept liability and reimburse its outlay. 
There were no independent witnesses to the accident. But there was a dashcam in Mr Js 
car and Markerstudy told Mr J that this may well have supported his position. But this 
couldnt be read and was then misplaced. So Markerstudy relied on Mr Js version of 
events which it said was consistent with the damage to his car shown by his photographs. 
I could see from the emails that Mr J has provided that Markerstudys specialist agent 
collected the dashcam card from Mr Js car and sent it to the specialist agents head office to 
be read. In Mr Js emails, Markerstudy said this head office was waiting to receive it. From 
Markerstudys system notes I could see that this head office received the card but was 
unable to read it and so sent it back to Markerstudy. But it wasnt received, and the agent 
couldnt provide evidence of postage or tracking numbers. Mr J thought this was suspicious. 
But I had no reason to doubt the accuracy of Markerstudys system notes. 
Mr J thought the card would have supported his version of events. But I didnt agree as the 
evidence shows that the card couldnt be read. So I couldnt say that its misplacement had 
caused Mr J any loss. However, I thought Markerstudys payment of £200 compensation for 
the trouble and upset this caused Mr J was fair and reasonable as it was in keeping with our 
published guidance. 
Liability hadnt been established some 21 months after the accident. As Ive said above, I 
could see that Markerstudy had tried to press the other insurer to accept liability, without 
success, and chased it frequently. I could also see that the other insurer offered to settle the 
claim as split liability, but Mr J rejected this and Markerstudy continued to defend him. 
Until liability had been accepted and Markerstudy had recovered its outlay, the claim would 
remain open and was recorded as a fault. And so Mr Js NCB remained affected. I thought 
this was standard industry practice and I would usually say that Markerstudy hadnt acted 
wrongly. 
But in Mr Js circumstances, I didnt think this was fair or reasonable for the following 
reasons:
1. As Ive said above, Markerstudy is entitled by the policy terms and conditions to settle a 
claim as it sees fit. I could see from its file notes that Markerstudy had consistently 
defended Mr Js position, relying firstly on his version of events and then on his 
photographs and the consistency of the damage to his car. So I thought Markerstudy had 
been persuaded by the evidence that Mr J didnt cause the accident. 
2. Markerstudy told Mr J that the other insurer had accepted liability early in the claim. But I 
thought this was an error made by Markerstudy as I hadnt seen any evidence to support 
this. I thought the other insurer disputed liability and then changed its position and 
offered to settle with split liability. I couldnt see that the other insurer had provided 
Markerstudy with further evidence to defend this change of position or responded to 
Markerstudys own presentation of evidence in support of Mr J. So I couldnt see that 
Markerstudy had justified its proposal to Mr J to settle the claim as split liability. 
3. Markerstudy and the other insurer are part of the same organisation. So Markerstudy 
had decided not to threaten legal action against the other insurer, which I thought it 
would usually do in such a case. I could see that Markerstudy had met with the other 
insurer to try and resolve matters. But I thought this situation had placed Mr J at an unfair 
disadvantage. And I thought it was for Markerstudy to treat Mr J fairly and resolve this 
internal dispute. 
4. Markerstudy is required to settle claims promptly. I could see that until the complaint 
came to us it regularly pursued the other insurer to accept liability. But the situation had 
remained static for a further year, causing Mr J frustration and expense due to his 
increased premiums. Markerstudy has paid for Mr Js repairs. But I thought it had unfairly prolonged the claim and 
caused delays in closing the claim. To put things right for Mr J, I thought Markerstudy should 
resolve the claim as quickly as possible. I thought that if the parties remained in 
disagreement Markerstudy should obtain a legal opinion on which to base its decision on 
who is liable for the accident. 
The further delays in the claim since Markerstudy responded to Mr Js complaint had caused 
him frustration and upset and the expense of higher premiums. If the claim was resolved as 
non-fault for Mr J then I thought Markerstudy should refund the additional premiums Mr J 
paid because of the open claim, so long as they werent adjusted in the light of this by his 
subsequent insurer. 
And I also thought it should pay him a further £250 compensation (£450 in total) for the 
trouble and upset caused him. I thought this amount would be fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with our published guidance. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr J or Markerstudy, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J replied reiterating that Markerstudy had sent him a letter stating that the other insurer 
had accepted liability. But, as Ive said above, this was issued in error as the other insurer 
was still disputing liability at that stage.
Markerstudy replied that it had taken technical advice that said that liability should lie with 
the other driver. It requested the other insurer to settle the claim as soon as possible. It then 
confirmed that the other insurer had agreed to settle the claim on a without prejudice basis. 
So I think it has acted on this part of my proposed redress. 
Markerstudy thought that as the claim was now settled as non-fault against Mr J, he should 
be able to ask his current insurer to refund any additional premium hed paid. I agree that its 
reasonable for Mr J to request this. But if this isnt successful, I think Markerstudy should 
remain responsible for refunding the increase in premiums due to the open claim. 
Markerstudy also said that some delays were due to its awaiting information and evidence 
from Mr Js solicitors so as not to prejudice his claim. But I can see from its notes that 
Markerstudy had a conversation with the solicitors and confirmed its stance. And I think the 
delay in receiving this information accounted for only a small part of the delay in the claim. 
So I still think Markerstudy should pay Mr J the proposed compensation.
 Putting things right
I require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Reimburse Mr J for any increases in his premiums due to the open claim now it has been 
resolved as non-fault for him, so long as they arent adjusted in the light of this by his 
subsequent insurer. 
2. Pay Mr J £450 in total compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by it 
losing the dashcam card, wrongly telling him the other insurer had accepted liability, and 
the unfair delay in closing his claim. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman