DRN-4026216
The complaint
Mr B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc mishandled his claim on a motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint was a car or multi-purpose vehicle, first 
registered in about 2009. 
Mr B had a comprehensive policy for the car with AXA.
Unfortunately in late March 2022, an accident caused injury to Mr B and damage to the car.  
AXAs salvage agent took the damaged car.
AXA provided a courtesy car but only for about three weeks. Mr B needed a car to get to 
work. So he bought a replacement vehicle, which he has said cost £1,300.00.
AXA said the damaged car was a total loss in salvage category B (to be broken for spares).
AXA said that the pre-accident value of the car had been £4,300.00. 
Mr B complained to AXA that it hadnt settled his claim before its salvage agent offered his 
damaged car for sale. He said he had asked to keep the car for parts. He also complained 
that the salvage agents had taken fuel from his car, and he only managed to get £50.00 from 
AXA for that.
By a final response dated mid-August 2022, AXA upheld the complaint in part. It said it had 
already paid compensation for cancellation of hire and for fuel. AXA said it was sending Mr B 
a further £225.00 compensation for poor service.
We began to investigate the complaint. AXA offered a further £150.00 compensation, plus a 
further £50.00 for the fuel, a total of a further £200.00. Our investigator thought that was fair, 
but later changed his mind.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that 
Mr B had lost the opportunity to salvage the engine, gear box, and leather interior that 
wouldve been worth £1,750.00. But Mr B wouldve had to pay a salvage deduction of 12% 
of £4,300.00, that is £516.00. The investigator recommended that AXA should pay Mr B:
1. £1,200.00; and
2. the additional £200.00 that AXA offered for compensation and lost fuel, 
AXA agreed with the investigators opinion. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
His car had a full service history with parts he knew were in great working condition. 
The engine had a new timing belt and pump.
AXA have never explained why they took the hire car, leaving him with no car and no 
money for the car.
AXA were aware he wanted the car back. He asked to buy the damaged car many 
times.
AXA sold the car before it paid him.
He asks how AXA have legally disposed of the car. 
He lost £100.00 of spare tyres that were still good.
He couldve used the interior trim of his car for its replacement.
Hes lost £3,000.00 plus of parts. The investigators values for second hand parts are 
too low.
He wouldve had the weighing- in of the scrap.
He wants his car returned to him.
AXA caused him stress.
He says the minimum would be £3,000.00 less £129.00 salvage fees = £2,781.00 
plus minimum of £200.00 compensation and fuel.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXAs policy terms covered Mr Bs car up to its pre-accident market value.
The policy terms provided that AXA would arrange a courtesy car for up to 14 days.
The policy terms included the following: 
We will also arrange for your car to be moved to a place of free and safe storage 
until it is repaired, sold or scrapped. The salvage of your car will become our property 
after your claim is settled.
So the damaged car would become AXAs property after it settled the claim. 
Mr B says that AXA or its salvage agents mishandled his enquires about keeping the 
damaged car  and sold the car before paying him for it.
I accept that AXA shouldve responded more positively to Mr Bs enquires  even though the 
car was in category B. So I accept that AXA wrongly deprived Mr B of the opportunity to buy 
the damaged car at a price of about £500.00.
However, I find that AXA settled Mr Bs claim for the car on about 27 April 2022  without 
any deduction for salvage. And I find that AXAs salvage agent initiated the sale of the 
damaged car on about 28 April 2022. 
So I dont find AXA responsible for selling the car before it settled Mr Bs claim. Im satisfied 
that it disposed of the car lawfully. I dont find it reasonable to direct AXA to do anything to 
get the damaged car back for Mr B.We wouldnt usually expect an insurer to pay for fuel left in the car. 
In any event, AXA paid the pre-accident value of the car. That includes all its parts such as 
its engine and interior trim. So  whilst I dont doubt that Mr B feels a sense of loss- I dont 
find it fair and reasonable to direct AXA to pay compensation for financial loss.
I dont doubt that shortcomings in AXAs communication caused Mr B some extra 
inconvenience and distress at an already difficult time for him. 
Putting things right
Mr B has said that AXA paid him £50.00 for fuel. 
AXAs final response said it was sending Mr B £225.00. Later, through us, AXA offered a 
further £200.00.
Later still, AXA agreed with the investigators recommendation that it should pay additional 
sums of £1,200.00 and £200.00.
In total, thats a significant amount over and above the pre-accident market value of the car  
and much more than I would otherwise have found fair and reasonable. But as AXA has 
made that offer, I find it fair and reasonable to hold AXA to it. I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct AXA to pay interest in addition.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr B (in addition to its previous payments set out 
above):
1. £1,200.00 for loss of opportunity to salvage parts of the car; and
2. £200.00 for distress and inconvenience and for lost fuel. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman