DRN-1521602
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that First Response Finance Ltd have rejected his claim under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 for repair of a car he bought on hire purchase.
What happened
Mr G bought a second hand car from a dealership in April 2019 and took out a hire purchase 
agreement with First Response to pay for it.
Mr G says he noticed some problems with the car from the outset. In August 2019, the 
dealership replaced the clutch and repaired a seal to prevent further water ingress.
In December 2019, Mr G commissioned an independent inspection of the car, which 
identified a number of issues.
Mr G asked First Response to pay for repairs to the car. They said the problems were due to 
wear and tear to be expected in a car of the relevant age and mileage and/or due to 
modifications made to the car since it was bought.
First Response maintained that position after Mr G complained to them, so he brought his 
complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and thought First Response had done nothing 
wrong. 
Mr G disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G's car was ten years old when he bought it and had almost 130,000 miles on the clock. 
He's driven a further 4,500 miles in the car. He bought it in April 2019 and complained to 
First Response in December 2019, eight months later.
The engineer's report Mr G commissioned identifies several issues with the car. And 
concludes that it isn't currently safe to be driven.
The question for me in making this decision is whether any of the faults identified by the 
engineer in December 2019 were likely to have been present or developing at the time Mr G 
bought the car. If so, he's entitled to ask First Response to pay for repairs under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
The engineer's report noted issues with: the flywheel; the wiring in the car; the diesel 
particulate filter (DPF) and an electrical control unit (ECU).The engineer said the DPF had been hollowed out, with the innards removed, meaning that 
it no longer served its purpose.
He said he suspected that was why the ECU and the wiring had been tampered with - and 
the ECU then wrapped in a carrier bag to prevent water ingress. This would have the effect 
of masking the removal of the DPF's innards because it would disable the emissions warning 
systems.
The car had successfully passed its MOT in September 2019. The engineer's view was that 
it would not have done so if the DPF, ECU and wiring were in the same state as they were 
when he carried out his inspection. 
The MOT in the relevant part of the UK tests for emissions and is failed if emissions are too 
dense and/or there is any obvious sign the emission governors have been tampered with or 
are not operating.  
I have to assume it's more likely than not the MOT was carried out correctly. And so the 
faults with the DPF, the ECU and the wiring were not present in September 2019 and 
developed after that point. So, they were not present at the point of sale in April 2019.
That leaves the fault with the flywheel. Mr G clearly noticed issues with the clutch soon after 
buying the car. In August, the dealership replaced the clutch. I assume Mr G was happy with 
that repair, given that he didn't raise any further issues until December 2019 and continued 
to drive the car in the interim.
If there were then further problems later - with the flywheel - I'm satisfied it's most likely 
these developed after the repairs carried out in August and so after the point of sale. 
I understand Mr G's frustration and annoyance that this problem has arisen soon after 
purchase. But it is inevitable that some problems - which are genuinely due to wear and tear 
- will manifest themselves in cars of a certain age and/or mileage.
In summary, in light of all the evidence, I'm satisfied the problems with Mr G's car's DPF, 
ECU and wiring were very likely not present at the point of sale. 
And I can't see any compelling evidence that the problems with the flywheel were present at 
the point of sale either. I bear in mind Mr G has driven the car 4,500 miles after purchase 
and made his claim to First Response eight months after he bought the car. And that it 
passed it's MOT in September 2019.
I'm aware that when they responded to his complaint, First Response offered Mr G an 
interest free loan to pay for repairs to the car. I understand this offer still stands. I can't ask 
First Response to do any more than that, so I'm not going to uphold Mr G's complaint. 
 
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mr G's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman