DRN-4499093
The complaint
Mrs E has complained about the refusal of a claim under her buildings insurance policy with
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd.
Accredited are the underwriters of this policy, i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns
the actions of the agents it uses to deal with claims on its behalf. As Accredited has
accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to
Accredited includes the actions of the agents. 
Mrs E has also been represented int his complaint but again for ease, I will refer only to    
Mrs E in this decision.
What happened
On 17 November 2022, Mrs E contacted Accredited to report that there was water leaking
into her property, which had caused damage to her lounge ceiling.
She advised through the online portal the same day that she had instructed a roofer to fix the
roof. 
Accredited responded the same day to say it would need a report and photos of the
affected areas, taken before the repairs are completed, to ensure the claim was not
prejudiced.
Mrs E went ahead and had the roof mended. She wants Accredited to reimburse those costs
(£660 plus £360) and repair the internal damage.
Accredited sent its surveyor out on 9 December 2022 to inspect the property. He said there
was no damage visible to the roof and no photos provided to him of the roof before it was
repaired. The surveyor said there was not enough evidence that the leak was caused by a
one-off storm event, which is what is required by the policy.
In January 2023, Mrs E provided a photo of the roof that she said as taken before the repairs
but Accredited said this did not show any obvious broken or slipped tiles that would be
consistent with storm damage. Accredited said Mrs E had told it she had a video showing
the damage to the roof but this had not been provided to it. Accredited therefore refused the
claim. It also said there was no cover for the internal repairs if there was no storm, as there
is no cover for accidental damage under Mrs Es policy.
Mrs E brought her complaint to this service. She says:
she had to log it as a storm damage claim on the insurance portal, as there was no
option for water ingress. If shed been able to speak to someone rather than log the
claim online, she could have explained that.
She had to get the roof repaired, there was no option of a temporary repair.
She is certain she added accidental damage cover to the policy when she took it out
but Accredited says it has no recording of this call.
The surveyor was biased and just provided a report to support Accrediteds refusal of
the claim.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She recommended that the complaint be
upheld, as she was satisfied that there was a storm around the time of the damage and the
damage to Mrs Es property was consistent with storm damage.
Accredited did not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter was passed to
me. I issued a provisional decision on the matter in October 2023. I did not think the 
complaint should be upheld, as I was not satisfied there was enough evidence the problem 
with Mrs Es roof was caused by a storm. I have set out the main parts of my provisional 
decision below: 
Mrs Es policy provides cover for damage caused to her building as a result of a 
number of different specified events. The section of the policy most relevant to this 
claim is the one which covers damage caused by storm. It says:
Storm
We will cover loss or damage caused by storm.
We do not cover
d. anything that happens gradually.
Properties are designed to withstand all but the most extreme weather 
conditions. Damage caused by normal weather conditions is not covered by 
the policy, as normal weather should not cause damage to a well-maintained 
property.
There is no section of cover for water ingress into a property, unless the water was 
able to enter the property as a result of a storm. So the storm will have needed to 
have been the cause of damage to the roof, which has then resulted in water ingress 
to the property for there to be cover under the policy. The policy does not cover 
ordinary wear and tear to the roof, or any other roof problems that are not caused by 
a storm.
Storm is defined in the policy as gale force winds higher than force 10 and rainfall of 
more than 25mm per hour.
I have seen evidence of rain over 25 mm per hour in mid-November 2022. However, 
rain on its own would not normally cause damage to a roof. I have not seen any 
evidence of winds higher than gale force 10 around the time Mrs E noticed the 
ingress of water.However, even if there had been gale force 10 winds, there would need to also be 
evidence that this had caused damage to the roof.
I have considered the report from the roofer. He said on 7 October 2022  so well 
over a month before the claim was made - he was called out as Mrs E had found a 
brown water stain on her lounge ceiling. He attended on 10 November 2022 and 
carried out some repairs to the roof.
The roofer said he was called again on 16 November 2022 to say there was still a 
leak so he went out again on 18 November 2022 to do some more repairs. He says 
he explained  that the reason for the water ingress was highly likely due to the 
high winds and the rain that  [they] had experienced during that week, combining to 
cause the water to come in from the outside of the property.
The invoice for 10/11/2022 says exploratory work to identify water ingress due to 
recent storms. Remedial works to the roof valley.
The invoice for work done on 18 November 2022 says he removed tiles from the 
valley area, replaced roofing felt and fitted lead to the valley area before refitting the 
tiles. The repairs carried out to the roof were not therefore to replace broken or 
displaced tiles, which is what we would expect to be the case if the repairs were 
required because of a storm. Instead the repairs involved replacing roofing felt and 
fitting lead flashing, which suggests there was no lead flashing there previously.
While the roofer said the ingress of water into the property (and therefore the internal 
water damage) was due to heavy rain and high winds, he didnt say the roof itself 
was damaged by storm. Mrs E also seems to recognise that the roof was not 
damaged by a storm, as she said she had no option to record the claim as water 
ingress and had to record it as a storm claim. 
So while there may have been a storm which resulted in water getting into Mrs Es 
property, this was only possible because there seems to have been a defect with the 
roof already.
Given this, I do think Accredited has acted unfairly or unreasonably in refusing this 
claim. Mrs E said she thought that she had accidental damage cover but accidental 
cover for buildings is shown clearly in the schedule as not being included in her 
policy. If Mrs E has any complaint about her understanding of the policy when she 
took it out that would have to be dealt with separately.
I did not consider the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further evidence or 
information they want considered before I issue my final decision. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Accredited has confirmed it agrees with my provisional decision and has nothing further to 
add. 
Mrs E does not accept my provisional decision. She has asked me to reconsider my findings 
and not to let a giant insurance company  crush the small person and once again get 
away with daylight robbery. Mrs E has made a number of points in response to my 
provisional decision, which Ive summarised below: she is only asking for the payment of the second invoice from her roofer (for £660) 
not his first invoice.
Accrediteds surveyor came out almost two months after the incident.
There has never been lead flashing on any of the roof valleys, the usual practice has 
always been treated timber. She asked the roofer to fit lead flashing in the valley and
at her own expense.
Before this claim, there were never any defects with the roof as it was
attended to and repaired less than a week prior to the claim. 
Mrs E has also provided a second report from her roofing contractor in support of her 
complaint. I have considered everything he has said but have summarised the main points 
made below: 
Mrs Es property is a gated property for which all residents pay a service charge. 
The roofs of all the properties are well-maintained. 
As a roofing contractor for 25 years, he considers the weather experienced in the 
week before the claim was most extreme.
The first call out was for exploratory work, as Mrs E had a brown stain appear on the 
ceiling. Although Mrs E felt this was due to water ingress, his exploratory work meant 
he considered it was the result of an accumulation of small amounts of water ingress 
during the previous years adverse weather. There was wear and tear to a baton in 
the roof valley so he replaced it with treated timber; he didnt see any damage to the 
valley tiles at that time. 
I stated he was called out again on 18 November 2022 because there was still a leak 
but this is not correct. He was called out because Mrs E had reported water entering 
the property and causing damage to the ceiling. 
I said he carried out some more repairs but again this was not correct, he attended 
and carried out NEW remedial work to stop the water ingress. 
It was clear to him when he attended on 18 November 2022 that there was storm 
damage to the roof. He says: I took off the valley tiles and although I explained that 
the felt and valley timber were in good shape, as a result of  [Mrs Es] husbands 
request, I replaced the felt and fitted lead that he supplied, to the valley area. I also 
had to replace two cracked valley tiles which were damaged by storm although I 
didnt itemise this on my invoice as I didnt think it important.  
He says I based my decision on these false statements and once corrected, this 
should lead to a change in outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E had noticed a brown stain on her ceiling in early October 2022. Mrs Es roofer says 
this was not due to water ingress but due to an accumulation of small amounts of water 
ingress during the previous years adverse weather conditions. He therefore suggests this is 
unrelated to the attendance on 18 November 2022 and this claim.  
The roofers first statement says of the attendance on 10 November 2022, we reached an 
agreement that there may be a leak on the roof letting in water to the inside I attended the 
property on 10 November 2022 and carried out a repair and remedial works on the outside 
of the roof. 
The invoice for 10/11/2022 says exploratory work to identify water ingress due to recent 
storms. Remedial works to the roof valley.The roofer has recently explained that the remedial work to the roof valley done on that day 
consisted of replacing a water damaged baton. 
It seems to me there was clearly water ingress to the property, which means the roof was 
leaking at least from early October 2022 when Mrs E first contacted the roofer to say she 
had noticed the stain to the ceiling inside. Whether this was caused by small amounts of 
water getting in over a long period of time, or after one rainfall, the roof was leaking and this 
was the reason for the first call out. 
Mrs E and her roofer also both say the roof was in good condition and well maintained, as it 
had been repaired a week before they noticed the water coming through the ceiling which 
was reported to Accredited. However, the fact a roof baton had to be replaced, and that 
water had been getting through the roof to cause staining inside, means there had been 
wear and tear to the roof and it had not been watertight.  
I do not therefore agree that the leak noticed by Mrs E in early October 2022 (and the first 
attendance on 10 November 2022) is irrelevant to the further ingress of water in apparently 
the same location for which Mrs E is seeking to claim.  
The roofer said he was called again on 16 November 2022. I referred to this being because 
there was still a leak and said that he carried out some more repairs. Mrs Es roofer says this 
is incorrect as these were NEW repairs. While the roof may not have been leaking 
continuously (it is difficult to know) there appears to have been water ingress at the same 
part of the roof. 
The roofers invoice for this attendance says: 
Removal of tiles in valley area
Replacement of roofing felt
Fitting of customer supplied lead to valley area
Refitting of tiles. 
The roofer says now that two tiles were cracked by storm damage but he didnt think it was 
important to mention that in the invoice. The roofers invoice cited above is quite detailed but 
does not mention any damage to the tiles, neither was it mentioned in his first report which 
tried to explain the cause of the water ingress to assist with Mrs Es insurance claim. That 
report says he explained  that the reason for the water ingress was highly likely due to the 
high winds and the rain that  [they] had experienced during that week, combining to cause 
the water to come in from the outside of the property. 
I would have thought it would be mentioned if the roofer had found cracked tiles at the time. 
In addition, Accredited had asked Mrs E to take photos of the damage to the roof before 
having the repairs done, in order to be able to validate the claim but the photos and videos 
provided by Mrs E do not show any damage to any roof tiles. 
Having considered everything provided to me, I am not therefore satisfied that there is 
sufficient evidence that the roof tiles were damaged and that the second call out was an 
entirely unrelated to the previous ingress of water. 
In any case, even if the tiles were cracked, there is no evidence that this was the result of a 
storm. As set out in my provisional decision, the policy will only provide cover for damage 
caused by storm.Storm is defined in the policy as gale force winds higher than force 10 and rainfall of more
than 25mm per hour.
I have checked the weather reports for the period leading up to the claim. There is evidence 
of rainfall of more than 25 mm per hour in mid-November 2022 and I accept this was 
extreme. However, rain on its own would not cause roof tiles to crack or become displaced. I 
have not seen any evidence of winds higher than gale force 10, which is considered to be  
enough to cause damage to roof tiles, around the time Mrs E noticed the ingress of water.
Therefore, while Mrs Es roof was leaking, there is not enough evidence that this was caused 
by a storm and therefore I do not consider that Accredited acted unreasonably in refusing 
the claim. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman