DRN-2902672
The complaint
Ms P complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) handled a dispute in relation to
a purchase she made on her debit card.
What happened
Ms P asked HSBC to help her get a refund for an £8,500 transaction she made on her 
debit card in January 2019. The transaction was to purchase a modelling package for her 
son.
In summary, Ms P says the supplier of the package (Supplier A) didnt provide the 
product it had described and had misled her into parting with the money. In particular it 
had made false guarantees that Ms Ps son would be provided with specific modelling 
contracts if she purchased the package. She says that it told her the money from the 
upcoming work would pay back the money she had spent on the package. She also says 
a promised website was only up for two hours and she didnt get the other services (such 
as 98 retouched pictures) which she was told would follow in six weeks.
When Ms P first approached HSBC it assisted her through the chargeback process. It 
raised a first and second (pre-arbitration) claim through the chargeback scheme, but 
these were defended by Supplier As bank. HSBC says it was unable to assist further, but 
credited Ms P £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Ms P was not happy with this outcome so she complained to this service. Our 
investigator took an initial look at the case. In summary, the investigator said HSBC 
should have continued along the chargeback process. And had it done so it was more 
likely than not Ms P would have got her money back. They considered a refund of the 
amount paid on the card to be a fair and reasonable outcome.
HSBC disagreed with this. It said, in summary:
during its investigation it found no evidence to show Ms P was scammed 
and she made the payment willingly
Ms P didnt provide suitable evidence to challenge the transaction, yet it still 
initiated a dispute for her. It attempted to assist her on a best endeavors basis 
rather than refuse to consider the dispute and this does not equate to it admitting it 
was likely the chargeback would be a success
chargeback is voluntary and not guaranteed  so it should not be liable for the loss
chargeback arbitration decisions are strictly based on fulfilment of the card 
scheme requirements, so when a dispute is raised as an attempt, it is more or 
less confirmed that the dispute cannot be pushed to arbitration
Ms P has legal recourse directly against Supplier A
the correspondence from Supplier A is not enough to conclude that Ms P was 
to be provided with services beyond photographs
Supplier A provided the signed contract to say photos had been received on a 
disc and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that is sufficient to 
conclude Ms P received the services she signed and paid for
it was unable to progress the dispute any further and although it is sympathetic 
to Ms Ps complaint it doesnt agree it should be liable
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 1 June 2021. This said:
As Ms P paid for the goods and services using her debit card and wanted a refund, Ive 
thought about whether HSBC dealt with her request fairly. The chargeback process is 
relevant in this case. This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved 
between card issuers and merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card 
scheme rules.
In certain circumstances the process provides a way for HSBC to ask for a payment Ms P 
made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent 
supplied or as described/misrepresented by the company Ms P paid. A chargeback 
doesnt guarantee a refund. Supplier As bank could put forward a defence to any 
chargeback claim. If the chargeback is defended, HSBC could pursue the chargeback 
further and ultimately ask the card scheme provider to arbitrate on the outcome.
HSBC pointed out that the chargeback process is a voluntary one (and that customers 
like Ms P have recourse against suppliers via the courts) so it was under no obligation to 
carry one out. However, it is a tool which is available as a means of resolving disputes. 
There will be times where it is not only fair and reasonable to use it to support a 
customer, but to pursue it in a particularly robust way, as dictated by the circumstances 
of the case.
I am encouraged to see HSBC did try and help Ms P with the transaction she made on 
her debit card by raising a chargeback and then carrying out a second presentment when 
the initial attempt was unsuccessful. But HSBC discontinued the chargeback without 
pushing it to the final stage of arbitration.
The key question as I see it is whether HSBC did enough here, or whether it should have 
reasonably pursued this matter further. And if it had done what is likely to have happened 
in any event. In order to decide this I have considered what I think is fair and reasonable 
in the particular circumstances of Ms Ps case.the information Ms P supplied HSBC about what happened
In the relevant card scheme rules there are a number of different chargeback categories 
or codes that can be used depending on the nature of the dispute. Here it seems a 
relevant code was Goods or Services Were Either Not as Described or Defective and 
also Misrepresentation' (in circumstances where it is alleged a merchant has falsely 
suggested that an income can be generated from business opportunities). Each 
chargeback code has its own set of requirements that need to be met in order for a 
chargeback right to exist and for it to have any prospect of success.
I have considered whether what Ms P supplied HSBC met the minimum requirements 
for it to effectively carry out a chargeback on her behalf. To do this I have had reference 
to the card scheme rules which I understand were in place at the time.
I have considered the processing requirements for a bank to progress a dispute under 
dispute condition Not as Described or Defective Merchandise/Services or 
Misrepresentaton. In doing so I note that as required by the rules Ms P provided HSBC 
with an explanation of what was not described or defective along with evidence of when 
she requested a credit from Supplier A.
I also note this information was accompanied with a signed cardholder dispute declaration 
form detailing what was purchased and why the goods/services received so far did not 
match what was promised (including the guaranteed work opportunities to generate 
income). This form also contained a declaration that Ms P had attempted to resolve the 
dispute with Supplier A, accompanied by supporting evidence of the same.
After considering what I believe to be the relevant parts of the card scheme rules I 
am satisfied Ms P met the basic requirements in order that HSBC were able to 
carry out a chargeback on her behalf under either of the codes mentioned above.
I am unsure why HSBC indicated Ms P did not provide suitable evidence for it to 
challenge the transaction. I note she provided a letter to the disputes team dated 18 
March 2019 (around two months after she initially purchased the package from Supplier 
A). The letter is extremely detailed, credible and compelling. In essence it details the 
sales process for the modelling package and confirms Supplier A:
enticed her to attend the shoot by saying that companies were interested 
in her son as a model
informed her there was some kind of screening process and only 2-3% 
of people passed this
confirmed that her son was extremely successful and a coach and retail 
company had confirmed they wanted him for a paid shoot in 2-3 weeks 
time
went through an exclusive unlimited international package costing 
£8,500 which would provide a year of assignments along with other 
benefits including:
oa web presence and e-portfolio
o98 retouched photos
oregular contact and updates
ophoto shoot with a coachMs P continues to tell HSBC that she has not received what was described to her and she 
has not been able to get in contact with anyone from Supplier A despite trying in writing 
and by phone. To reinforce this point Ms P provides evidence of written communication 
she has made with Supplier A. The letters appear to be credible and I note she even 
provided photos of recorded special delivery envelopes used to send correspondence to 
Supplier A.
In this communication Ms P describes in detail how she even called the public house 
below the premises which were occupied by Supplier A. She says the occupants told her 
Supplier A had left the premises owing rent and were scammers, after which she was 
prompted to call Citizens Advice and Trading Standards.
For me this letter and supporting evidence, including the HSBC dispute form, make a 
strong and compelling case that Ms P had not received the product she was promised. In 
particular, she was told her son was guaranteed imminent and ongoing paid 
assignments/modelling contracts which had not transpired. I also find the statement and 
supporting evidence shows strongly that she had made reasonable and unsuccessful 
attempts to contact Supplier A to get the service promised.
I also note that what Ms P describes, and the language used in her letter should 
have alerted HSBC to the possibility that Supplier A was seemingly running a 
somewhat sophisticated scam.
I have also listened to Ms Ps initial call with HSBC about the matter. Much of the content 
is similar to what she provided in writing. She mentions that she has not received the 
services, that she considers she has been scammed, that she has been in touch with 
Trading Standards and Citizens Advice and has attempted to contact Supplier A about the 
services numerous times but not had any recent communication back. During the call 
HSBC confirms it understands Ms P is saying the service included photos and 
assignments. Ms P also lists the other services that were meant to be provided including 
an e-folio, 98 photos, web address and a year of support with the modelling assignments. 
Ms P mentions the specific brand Supplier A promised a photo assignment with and that 
Supplier A then told her this was postponed for 3-4 weeks but never got back in touch 
about it.
In summary, I am satisfied the information Ms P provided HSBC enabled it to meet the 
basic requirements of the card scheme rules. I also consider that the information she 
provided was clear and persuasive evidence to support her claim. So, based on the 
information I currently have, I dont agree with HSBC that the evidence was not suitable 
for it to challenge the transaction through the chargeback scheme.
the chargebacks raised, the defence and the wider evidence
I have looked at the initial chargeback defence submitted by Supplier As bank and I 
dont find it particularly compelling. For example:
it says Ms P signed the contract to confirm receipt of the services  
however, this contract only appears to serve as confirmation of receipt of a 
disc of unedited images with an agreement that other services will follow
it makes a point of saying Supplier A is not an agency yet the contract is 
contradictory on this point  at one point stating Supplier A isnt an agency 
but also stating YES in a box titled Agency and a separate list 
confirming one of the services agreed is Agency ListI also note that Ms P provided a strong rebuttal to the initial chargeback defence, 
explaining why it was not correct and referring back to prior evidence she had provided. 
And while I acknowledge that HSBC pursued the chargeback for the customer, I dont 
find its initial submissions strongly capture what Ms P says she was promised  and the 
services she is still waiting for. Nor does its second presentment effectively clarify things. 
In fact the pre- arbitration submission is very similar to the first and is unclear in places.
I also note the defence to the second presentment once again rejects the chargeback 
based on the notion that the signed contract confirms that Ms P has received the photos, 
effectively ignoring the other services she says were promised including those clearly 
indicated on said contract.
I have also considered this dispute in the context of the wider evidence. I have already 
said that Ms Ps letter strongly indicates she has been subject to some kind of scam 
(which should have alerted HSBC to the same). I note that the Action Fraud site has an 
article on fake modelling scams, the circumstances of which closely match what Ms P 
described to it. Not only that but the director of Supplier A appears in press articles 
linked to scam modelling firm and on Companies House it is clear that he had been 
involved in previously dissolved modelling companies. So I think there was some 
compelling wider evidence supporting the individual case Ms P had described here. 
HSBC has said it investigated the dispute and found no evidence to show that Ms P was 
scammed. But I think the information this service has found would have been fairly 
discoverable by HSBC in light of the information Ms P had provided.
the contract
There has been much emphasis on the signed written contract as a reason for saying Ms 
Ps chargeback would not succeed (and discontinuing it). Despite the presence of a signed 
written contract here, in my view this doesnt directly rule out what Ms P says she was 
promised in respect of guaranteed work contracts for her son. In fact, as I have said 
above, the contract is quite contradictory on the point about the agency element of the 
package. And considering Ms Ps compelling testimony and the significant amount of 
money spent here (£8,500) it seems more likely than not that Ms P was promised more 
than just photos and a website.
In respect of the retouched photos and the website I am not entirely convinced the 
presence of a signed contract shows she received these services either. In fact I dont 
think it serves as confirmation that Ms P received anything more than an initial disc of 
unedited shots. It says that the goods (presumably including the retouched pictures) will 
follow within 6 weeks of the order. It seems Ms P didnt get these. I also note that the 
website which was part of the promised service is not active either.
should HSBC have done more here?
In summary, I think there was a very strong indication here that Ms P had not received 
the goods and services described to her and had actively been misled into parting with a 
significant sum of money. Not only was there evidence that specifically relates to her 
case, but also wider evidence that supported her position at the time.
I think that HSBC were right to raise a chargeback here and take it to pre-arbitration, but 
I dont consider its representations or the defences from Supplier As bank to be 
particularly compelling. Nor do I find the contract clearly shows Ms P got what was 
described and was not misled.
So while I acknowledge HSBC used the chargeback process, I consider that in these 
particular circumstances it should have robustly pursued the process right up to the 
final arbitration stage.I note that HSBC says the matter couldnt have gone to arbitration. But I have considered 
the card scheme rules and what they say about arbitration and I dont see where Ms Ps 
claim had clearly fallen foul of a particular rule/procedural matter that would have 
prevented it going any further. It is of course possible that HSBC has not complied with the 
specific requirements in order to take the matter to the final stage  but if that isnt 
attributable to the actions of Ms P I dont see how it is fair to penalise her for it.  If HSBC 
can provide something more specific on this point I will of course consider it. However, at 
this point in time I dont see a good reason why HSBC could not take the matter to 
arbitration.
Considering the strength of evidence provided by Ms P, the lack of clear evidence that 
she got what was described, and the wider evidence from Action Fraud and the media I 
find it more likely than not the card scheme would have concluded Ms P did not get what 
was described by Supplier A and awarded her money back  had HSBC presented her 
claim in a reasonable and clear manner. Because I think the actions of HSBC in not 
pursuing the matter to arbitration has more likely than not caused Ms P to lose out I think 
it is fair and reasonable that it refunds her to reflect her likely loss.
I note the scheme rules limit the disputed amount to the unused portion of the cancelled 
service or value of the merchandise that the cardholder returned, or attempted to return. 
From the evidence I have I am not persuaded Ms P has received anything of value from 
the contract. Even if she had received a disc of unedited photos for reference in the initial 
consultation I dont consider this sufficient to say she has used a portion of the cancelled 
service. I also note that she attempted to cancel the service and would likely have 
returned any initial disc if able to. So I dont think it would be fair to make a deduction from 
any refund in this instance. In this case I think it is fair and reasonable that HSBC repay 
her the amount she paid on her debit card plus interest. However, I do note she has 
already received £100 from HSBC so this should be deducted from that amount.
I provisionally upheld the complaint and directed HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
refund the amount Ms P paid on her debit card less £100 (£8,400) for the 
transaction to Supplier A plus 8% simple yearly interest from the date the 
chargeback claim was stopped, which I consider to be 19 July 2019, to the date 
of settlement.
I asked the parties for their comments on my provisional decision.
Ms P agreed with the decision.
HSBC did not agree. In summary, it highlighted the following reasons for not refunding the 
disputed payment:
the disputed transaction was a face to face transaction and was not funded by the 
bank (not a credit card payment);
it should not be expected to accept liability for a Consumer Dispute that was 
voluntarily taken up as per the provisions in the Card Schemes and as interpreted 
and understood by it and it has to assist with reasonable care but unless there was 
deliberate negligence with no recourse it should not be held liable for the transaction 
but can be asked to issue compensation;
the merchant can be found in the Companies House register and Ms P can file a 
case in the small claims court against it (if required it can compensate the court fees 
up to £200);the safeguard for such a payment is not merely the [card scheme name redacted] 
but the jurisdiction within which the Payee functions; and
this service has implied there is no other recourse available but the merchant is 
found in Companies House and a legal recourse should be available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBCs response to the provisional decision appears to centre around points it has raised 
before. One being that chargeback is a voluntary process and the other being the existence 
of other means of Ms P pursuing the matter with Supplier A (such as court). I believe I have 
addressed these in my provisional decision (which I still consider to be fair and reasonable) 
but for clarity I will summarise my key thoughts here:
despite chargeback being a voluntary process (as opposed to a legal right) it is still a 
tool available to the bank as a means of resolving disputes. There will be times 
where it is not only fair and reasonable to use it to support a customer, but to use the 
process to its fullest, as dictated by the circumstances of the case;
the circumstances of this case (for the reasons outlined in my provisional decision) 
support the use of the chargeback process to its full extent;
I have not been provided with persuasive evidence that the existence of other forms 
of dispute resolution such as court action means that chargeback should not be 
attempted or taken to the final stage of the process should the circumstances warrant 
it. Accepting this would in my view indicate no disputes actionable in court should be 
taken to the final stage of chargeback  as far as I am aware the chargeback rules 
dont say this.
I am not saying Ms P had no other options than pursuing a chargeback through HSBC. 
However, it is worth noting she provided it with clear and compelling evidence that she 
had tried and failed to engage Supplier A in an attempt to informally resolve the dispute. 
Her main alternative to chargeback at that stage was a more formal process such as 
court, which is unlikely to have been quicker or more straightforward and would certainly 
have been more expensive. And while I accept Supplier A still remains searchable on 
Companies House, it was dissolved a few months after Ms P contacted HSBC about the 
matter. While HSBC wouldnt have known about this at the time  it reinforces the 
potential benefits of robustly pursuing a chargeback in the right circumstances.
As I have said in my provisional decision. In my view:
Ms P aproached HSBC with compelling testimony to indicate she had not got the 
modelling package described to her at the time of sale (and that she had in fact 
been victim to a scam) 
Ms Ps actions afterwards were consistent with what she said happened 
despite a signed contract there is a lack of persuasive evidence from Supplier A 
that Ms P had received the service as described in that contract  including the 
retouched pictures and e-folio/website 
the contractual paperwork, while contradictary in places, does indicate Ms P had 
also been promised a package for her son including ongoing agency services - 
there is no persuasive evidence she got these Ms Ps testimony, elements of the written contract, and other circumstantial and 
supporting evidence (including the price paid and evidence found on anti fraud 
websites / the media) persuasively indicate that Ms P signed up because the 
service was misleadingly described as including other services beyond the initial 
consultation and photoshoot
As I have said in my provisional decision, while chargeback is not a compulsary process 
the particular circumstances here warranted a robust pursual until the final stage in order 
to give Ms P the opportunity to have her case considered at arbitration.
HSBC has pointed out that the transaction was carried out face to face and not using a 
credit card. It has not really provided a lot more detail about this but appears to be 
indicating that the evidential requirements for a chargeback are more limited than say a 
claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and depend on the particular 
nature of the transaction. For example, I note that depending on the circumstances of the 
sale and the reason code used it might be that the card scheme places limited or no 
weight on verbal / other circumstantial evidence as opposed to documentary evidence 
from the point of sale.
I have thought about this point. However, even if I accepted the scheme would not take 
into account certain wider information about the actions of Supplier A I still consider the 
documentary record from the time of sale supports Mrs Ps dispute in line with the 
particular chargeback reason code that HSBC used here. The written contract we have 
shows there were several things Mrs P was promised the package would include for her 
son  yet there is no persuasive evidence from Supplier A that she got the service as 
described in this document.
Importantly, HSBC has not responded to my provisional decision with clear evidence of 
why an arbitration was not possible / why it would not have succeeded. In the absence of 
further detail from HSBC I have to go on the evidence I do have. Which indicates Ms P 
had chargeback rights and a compelling case.
While it isnt possible to know exactly what would have happened at arbitration I make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. For the reasons given here and in my provisional 
findings I consider it more likely than not the card scheme would have concluded Ms P did 
not get what was described by Supplier A and awarded her money back  had HSBC 
presented her claim in a reasonable and clear manner.
HSBC appear to be suggesting that as it has not acted negligently and because Ms P 
had access to other means of recovering the money then the correct remedy here is a 
compensation payment rather than a refund of the funds which Ms P paid. In assessing a 
fair remedy I have thought about the relevant circumstances and I dont agree here.
As I have said in my provisional decision, because I think HSBC not pursuing the matter 
to arbitration has more likely than not caused Ms P to lose out, it is fair and reasonable 
that it refunds her to reflect her likely loss. Which in these particular circumstances I 
consider to be the amount she paid on her debit card less the £100 she has already 
received back.
In considering the fairness of making HSBC liable for the amount Ms P paid I have also 
considered the other avenues she might have to recoup her loss. But as I have already 
indicated, court action is not without its difficulties and uncertainties. Supplier A is now 
dissolved, but even if it were not I am not persuaded it would necesarily have complied 
with any order of the court. It is also questionable as to why the onus should be put on 
Ms P to pursue the matter through court because HSBC did not continue the chargeback 
process when it should have.
Furthermore, as I have already explained in my provisonal findings, the evidence does not 
indicate that Ms P had any tangible benefit from the package  so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to make any other deduction from the refund here.
Putting things right
Overall, for the reasons already given I think it fair and reasonable that Ms P gets all the 
money back she paid for the modelling package with a £100 deduction for what she had 
received back already. She also shouldnt be out of pocket as a result of HSBCs failure 
to continue the chargeback so I consider it fair to also make an award of 8% simple 
yearly interest on the refund.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
refund the amount Ms P paid on her debit card less £100 (£8,400) for the 
transaction to Supplier A plus 8% simple yearly interest from the date the 
chargeback claim was stopped, which I consider to be 19 July 2019, to the date 
of settlement.
If HSBC considers tax should be deducted from any interest award it should provide Ms P 
with a certificate of tax deduction, so she can reclaim this if applicable. Ms P should refer 
back to HSBC  if she is unsure of the approach it has taken and both parties should 
contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax treatment of this 
portion of the compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman