DRN-2511977
The complaint
Ms B complains she was mis-sold a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
Although Marks and Spencer (M&S) sold her the actual policy, we couldnt look at the 
complaint against them because they werent in our jurisdiction at the time of the sale. But 
the insurers, Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) have taken responsibility for the sale and so the 
complaint has been set up against them. 
What happened
Allianz says Ms B completed an application form for an M&S store card in 2000. The PPI 
was sold at the same time in connection with this card. The policy would have paid 15% of 
the monthly outstanding balance if Ms B was off work sick or lost her job. And it would have 
continued to pay while she was off work until the outstanding balance (at the start of the 
claim) had been paid off.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ms B didnt agree with our adjudicator, so 
the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case. 
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Allianz should have made Ms B aware she had a choice in buying the PPI. Allianz doesnt 
have any paperwork Ms B would have completed at the time, but it has provided a sample 
copy of the application form Ms B is likely to have completed.
Looking at the sample copy, I can see it asks applicants to tick a box if they want the policy. 
Ive thought about what I know about how Allianz sold these types of policies at the time 
alongside what Ms B has told us. And having done this, I think its unlikely Allianz would 
have added the PPI without Ms B indicating she wanted it. But I can understand why Ms B 
cant remember taking the policy now.
From everything Ive read and been told, I dont think Allianz recommended the policy to    
Ms B. So, it didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But Allianz did need to make 
sure it gave Ms B clear enough information about the policy to enable her to decide for 
herself if she should take the policy. 
Ms B says she wasnt told about all of the things the PPI covered.  Its possible the 
information Allianz gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But 
even if Allianz had given her better or clearer information, I dont think it would have made a 
difference. I still think she would have taken out the policy.
Ms B says she would have received sick pay benefits from her employer including an 
insurance policy which would have paid 75% of her wages if she was off work due to a long-
term sickness. The policy could have paid out 15% of her monthly balance until she was 
able to return to work, or until the balance had been cleared  whichever came first. And it 
would have covered her for the same term if she lost her job. It would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay she may have received. 
Ive noted Ms Bs comments about the fact she also had some savings she could have used. 
But having the PPI would have meant these savings could have remained intact or been 
used for their intended purposes. So, I still think she could have found this policy useful.
Overall, when taking everything into consideration, I dont think Ms B has lost out as a result 
of anything Allianz may have done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman