DRN-4164444
The complaint
Mr R has complained Santander UK plc wont refund five card transactions hes disputed.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr R called Santander to notify them of transactions he didnt recognise. Hed 
been alerted as he didnt recognise transactions that were carried out in a foreign currency.
Santander reviewed these transactions but believed the evidence showed these had been 
authorised by Mr R. Mr R said hed been asleep at the time these had taken place. The 
financial losses from these transactions had caused him serious financial distress and health 
issues. Mr R brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided by both parties. He felt this showed Mr R 
had authorised the transactions.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr R has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Rs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr Rs case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Santander and Mr R have told us. Im specifically aware that Mr R has questioned 
why hed spend his monthly salary straight after receipt and the financial distress this 
episode has caused.
Mr R has disputed five online card transactions. Three of these were made in US Dollars 
and two in euros. He was charged the foreign exchange conversion costs which means the 
total in dispute is nearly £2,990.
He has also queried our investigators view that these transactions were properly 
authenticated. He doesnt believe this amounts to authorisation as required under the PSRs. 
In fact authorisation is made up of two aspects: authentication and consent. In some cases 
the evidence about authentication will be sufficiently compelling that it is clear the customer 
must have consented at the time of authentication. I think this is the case here and I explain 
why below.
I believe its more than likely Mr R authorised these transactions. I say this for the following 
reasons:
The transactions required authentication. These were authenticated by a one-time 
passcode being sent to Mr Rs phone which he then entered. And also by the use of 
Mr Rs fingerprint. As these methods of authentication were used, I dont see how the 
transactions werent also being consented to by Mr R at the same time.
Theres no evidence of compromise to Mr Rs card, account or devices.
The IP address used for all of these disputed transactions match an address 
regularly used when Mr R accesses his Santander account.
Mr Rs Santander account was being accessed throughout the time of the five 
disputed transactions. The values involved mean it would be difficult to miss these 
debiting Mr Rs balance. Particularly as he notes his salary had only just gone into his 
account.
How would an unknown third party be aware that this was the time when there were 
sufficient funds in Mr Rs Santander account to make the disputed transactions? 
Apart from the possible visceral thrill of gambling, I dont think theres any possible 
gain from an unknown third party undertaking these transactions. Unknown 
fraudsters generally operate for financial gain.
Mr R has wondered why these card transactions werent blocked as he believed they didnt 
reflect his normal account use. However I see that a month before there were three 
gambling transactions undertaken (amounting to £260) which werent disputed. Its also the 
case that up to two hours before the first of the disputed transactions, three £100 gambling 
transactions  which havent been disputed  took place.
I appreciate the distress this has all caused Mr R. He has lost a considerable amount of 
money. However I think its more than likely  as the evidence shows  Mr R authorised the 
transactions. On that basis I wont be asking Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Rs complaint against Santander 
UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman