DRN-3879267
The complaint
Mr V complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Hitachi Personal Finance 
provided him with credit he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Hitachi approved a £5000 loan for Mr V in December 2017. The loan was repayable over 60 
months at £115.12 per month.
Mr V says the loan wasnt affordable for him.
Hitachi disagrees. It says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks but didnt find 
anything to indicate that Mr V couldnt afford the loan.
Mr V wasnt happy with Hitachis response and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the checks Hitachi had carried out 
didnt show any signs that the loan might not be sustainably affordable.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr V asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our response to irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our website, 
including the relevant rules, regulations and good industry practice. Ive had this approach in 
mind when considering Mr Vs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Hitachi had to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure Mr V could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. These checks 
need to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. Whats considered to be reasonable 
and proportionate will depend on various factors, such as the amount of credit, the cost of 
credit, the amount of repayments and the customers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. 
Hitachi asked Mr V for details of his annual income when he applied for the loan. It says it 
verified his income using a credit bureau tool and concluded that his monthly income was 
around £2,844 per month.
Hitachi also carried out a credit check to find out information about Mr Vs borrowing history 
and other consumer credit commitments. It also checked for any missed payments, defaults 
and CCJs.
Hitachi discovered that Mr V had total credit commitments of around £10,500 and monthly 
payments of around £233 per month. It took into account Mr Vs mortgage repayments, 
which were around £614 per month.
The repayment on the new loan was around £115 per month. Hitachi calculated that after 
paying his existing credit commitments and the repayments for the new loan, Mr V would be 
left with around £1882 per month to cover other expenses. It felt that this was reasonable for 
Mr V and approved the loan.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Hitachi carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
before approving the loan. I dont think there was anything in the information gathered by 
Hitachi to suggest that the loan was unaffordable for Mr V, or that he wouldnt be able to 
sustainably make the repayments.
It follows that I dont think Hitachi lent to Mr V irresponsibly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman