DRN-3218219
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
August 2001 to go with a mortgage hed taken out previously, in January 2000. Mr L says 
Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), at the time trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester, mis-sold him 
PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ls 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ls representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ls. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below.
 
Ive noticed that Mr L hasnt suggested that he didnt know hed agreed to take out this 
policy, or that he thought he had to have it. So I think its fair to conclude he agreed to take 
out the policy because it was a form of protection he wanted to have. This is supported by 
his having filled out and signed a PPI application form as well as a separate form with his 
bank details. Ive also kept in mind that Mr L decided not to take out PPI when he applied for 
his mortgage, but instead decided to take out the policy quite some time later. He therefore 
would have been aware that he didnt have to take out PPI to get the mortgage he wanted.
Lloyds cant be certain how it sold the PPI to Mr L, but for the purposes of this decision it has 
agreed that it recommended the PPI to Mr L. That means it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him. And the evidence about Mr Ls circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr L was eligible for the 
cover and although it looks like he had some limited work benefits if he was unable to work 
due to accident or sickness, or lost his job, the PPI would pay in addition to and for longer 
than those  up to 12 months  if he made a successful claim on the policy. It also meant he 
wouldnt have to dig into any other financial resources, such as savings. 
There was nothing about Mr Ls employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental 
health and/or back problems.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr L as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to 
what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was given. It also looks 
like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr L would have declined the cover had Lloyds done 
anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr L would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ls individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ls particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022. 
Michael GoldbergOmbudsman