DRN-2386861
The complaint
Mr K complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has turned down a medical expenses
claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K has travel insurance as a benefit of his charge card account.
In September 2019, while he was on holiday abroad, Mr K became unwell. He was admitted
to hospital and diagnosed with hydropic cholecystitis. His treating surgeon informed Mr K
that he wasnt fit to fly and offered him emergency surgery. He got in touch with IPAs
medical assistance team to let it know about the situation and to check whether hed be
covered for the surgery.
IPA told Mr K itd need a medical report and to check his medical history before it could
confirm whether hed be covered. While it was waiting for this information, Mr K had the
surgery. Once IPA received the medical report, it passed it onto the medical team for review.
The medical team confirmed it wouldnt have authorised Mr Ks surgery, because it said his
gallbladder hadnt been blocked. So it didnt think the surgery was an emergency. It
suggested it wouldve suggested that Mr K was put on antibiotics and that he wouldve been
advised to fly home for surgery.
Mr K remained in hospital for a couple of days and then recuperated in a local hotel. He
booked new flights to return home once he was considered fit to fly. He made a claim for all
of his medical and other expenses.
IPA turned down the claim. It said the surgery hadnt been an emergency and it hadnt been
authorised by the medical assistance team. So it said the claim was specifically excluded by
the policy terms. Mr K asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. She accepted Mr K hadnt got
authorisation from IPA before having the surgery done. Shed researched hydropic
cholecystitis and found that its usually characterised by a blocked cystic duct. She
acknowledged the medical report from the treating hospital had been brief. It didnt include
any information about scans or blood tests Mr K couldve had, which mightve indicated
whether his gallbladder had been blocked. But she felt itd been open to IPA to request
further evidence before making a decision about whether to cover the surgery. And the
medical report stated Mr K had been offered urgent surgery. So she didnt think it was fair
for IPA to rely on its policy terms to turn down Mr Ks claim.
IPA disagreed. It said itd lost its opportunity to talk to the treating doctor before Mr K had
undergone surgery. There was no evidence the surgery was urgent. And it also said that
even if the claim hadnt been turned down due to the lack of authorisation, it wouldve turned
the claim down due to Mr Ks pre-existing medical history. It said Mr Ks medical records
showed hed been undergoing investigations for gastritis, he had Barretts Oesophagus and
that he had type two diabetes. It said these conditions were directly linked to the condition
Mr K had suffered from abroad.
Our investigator asked IPA to demonstrate a link between Mr Ks medical history and the
cholecystitis he suffered abroad. She also couldnt see a diagnosis of diabetes in Mr Ks
medical records and Mr K said hed never suffered from it. IPA maintained there was a clear
link to Mr Ks medical history and that hed been awaiting investigations for exactly the same
condition.
I issued my provisional decision on 28 October 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think it was fair for IPA to turn down Mr Ks claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about the
circumstances of Mr Ks claim, the policy terms and the available medical evidence to decide
whether I think IPA has handled Mr Ks claim fairly.
It seems to me there are two different issues I need to decide. Was it fair for IPA to conclude
the surgery wasnt an emergency? And is it fair for IPA to now rely on a policy term
excluding claims related to pre-existing medical conditions to turn down Mr Ks claim? Ill
consider each in turn.
Was it fair for IPA to conclude the surgery wasnt an emergency?
Ive carefully considered the medical expenses section of Mr Ks policy. This provides cover
for necessary hospital, medical and surgical costs. But it also includes specific things the
policy doesnt cover. It says:
You will not be covered in respect of the following:
Costs for treatment not approved by Our Senior Medical Officer, unless immediately
necessary to prevent serious detriment to Your health or save Your life, or treatment that is
or was in the sole opinion of Our Senior Medical Officer unnecessary or unreasonable in the
circumstances, or not in accordance with recognised practice.
Treatment that Our Senior Medical Officer considers can be reasonably delayed until Your
return to Your Country of Residence.
Theres no dispute that IPAs medical assistance team didnt authorise Mr Ks surgery. And
that it hadnt made a decision about cover at the point he decided to go ahead and incur
substantial surgical costs. So on a strict interpretation of the policy terms, Mr Ks claim isnt
covered. But I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy if I think it results in an
unfair outcome.
Ive looked closely at the medical report from the treating hospital. This states that Mr K had
presented with epigastric regional pain and tenderness. The doctor stated Mr Ks diagnosis
was acute hydropic cholecystitis. The treatment and care plan section of the policy says:
Urgent surgery is offered to the patient.
Mr K says that the treating doctor told him that he wasnt fit to fly and that there was a risk of
gallbladder rupture. It seems he was under the impression that the surgery was urgent.
IPAs notes say: usually gall bladder doesnt need urgent surgery unless obstructed. Once it
reviewed the medical report, the medical team said: not much on the MR (medical report)
except a diagnosis of hydropic cholecystitis that needs surgery. Only ERCP is authorised,
not cholecystectomy.I agree that the medical report is brief and doesnt explain whether or not Mr Ks gallbladder
was obstructed. Im not a medical expert, so I need to rely on the available medical evidence
when considering cases such as these. Although Id note that from my own research, it
seems that cases of hydropic cholecystitis do generally include an obstructed cystic duct.
But it seems to me that the treating doctor did consider the surgery was urgent. And given
the medical team noted there wasnt much information on the report, I currently think it was
open to IPA to ask the treating hospital for more evidence to show the nature of Mr Ks
cholecystitis and whether his gall bladder was blocked. It couldve requested the outcomes
of any scans; blood tests or diagnostic treatment Mr K had received before deciding whether
the surgery was urgent or not. Or whether the treating doctor did think there was a risk of
rupture. It opted not to do so.
And even though Mr K went ahead with the surgery, I dont think IPA was prevented from
asking for such additional medical evidence about the nature of Mr Ks condition afterwards.
Again, it opted not to do so.
Based on the medical evidence Ive seen, Im not currently persuaded IPA has shown it was
fair and reasonable to rely on these policy exclusions to turn down the claim. I havent seen
enough medical evidence to counter the treating doctors report or to suggest why IPA
concluded Mr Ks surgery wasnt urgent.
Is it fair and reasonable for IPA to rely on the policy exclusion for pre-existing medical
conditions to turn down Mr Ks claim?
Since Mr K brought his complaint to us, IPA has let us know that even if it accepted Mr Ks
surgery was urgent, it still wouldve turned down the claim. Thats because it says theres a
clear link between Mr Ks pre-existing medical history and the acute cholecystitis  in
particular to diabetes and Barretts oesophagus.
The policy includes some general exclusions the policy doesnt cover. One of these relates
to pre-existing medical conditions and says:
Pre-existing medical conditions known to You, when You apply for Your Card and any
Cards on Your Account, or prior to booking Your Trip, whichever is the most recent, for
which You:
a) have attended a hospital as an in-patient during the last 12 months;
b) are awaiting test results or on a waiting list for an operation, consultation or investigation;
c) have commenced or changed medication or treatment within the last three months;
d) require a medical, surgical or psychiatric check up every twelve months or more
frequently;
e) have been given a terminal prognosis;
f) know of any reason, which may necessitate any Trip to be cancelled or cut short.
IPA considers Mr K was under investigation for the condition he was treated for abroad.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ks medical records. Like the investigator, I cant see any
mention that Mr K suffers from diabetes at all  and the GP has specifically noted the
conditions Mr K was suffering from. These dont include diabetes. Mr Ks confirmed hes
never been diagnosed with diabetes. If he had been, Id expect this to be included on Mr Ks
medical records.
If IPA now seeks to rely on this exclusion clause, it needs to demonstrate a clear medical
link between Mr Ks medical history and the condition he suffered from abroad. It needs to
show that, on balance, Mr Ks cholecystitis is related to his existing medical history.
I can see that Mr K has suffered from heartburn and reflux for some years and underwentendoscopies to investigate the cause. He appears to have been diagnosed with Barretts
Oesophagus. This seems to be a condition which causes damage to the surface tissue of
the oesophagus because of damage by acid reflux. The medical records show Mr K is
medicated for this condition. I can also see that Mr K had been seen by a gastroenterologist
and was scheduled for further testing due to occasional changes in his bowel habits 
including a diagnosis of campylobacter.
While the investigator asked IPA to explain what link it thought there was between Mr Ks
medical history and his acute condition, it didnt explain why it considered there was a link;
why it felt Mr K was being investigated for this condition; or how the conditions were related.
Based on the evidence I currently have, Im not persuaded that IPA has shown a clear link
between the acute hydropic cholecystitis Mr K was diagnosed with and his existing medical
history. I dont think its provided me with enough medical evidence to show, on balance, its
most likely the conditions were related. So I dont currently think its shown its fairly entitled
to rely on the exclusion clause to turn down Mr Ks claim.
Overall, I currently think the fair and reasonable outcome for Mr Ks claim is for IPA to
reconsider it in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
I asked both parties to send me any further information they wanted me to consider.
Mr K accepted my provisional decision.
IPA didnt accept my provisional findings. It said it had been referred to its medical team, 
who are all trained doctors and nurses. In their medical opinion: the condition is clearly 
linked to PMH (pre-existing medical history) and he is awaiting investigations or results for 
exactly the same condition. IPA also reiterated that the surgery wasnt an emergency and 
couldve waited until Mr K got back home. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont think it was fair for IPA to turn down Mr Ks claim and Ill explain 
why.
I appreciate that on a strict interpretation of the policy, as Mr K didnt get the CMOs 
authorisation to get the surgery carried out, his claim wouldnt be covered. But as Ive 
explained, the available medical evidence suggests that the treating doctor, whod had the 
opportunity to examine Mr K, considered the surgery was urgent. IPA noted that the medical 
report was brief but chose not to get further information from the treating doctor about Mr Ks 
diagnosis; whether his gallbladder was blocked and whether there was a rupture. It had 
been open to it to request this information and to request any scan or blood tests results if it 
felt information was missing.
Based on the evidence, it seems the treating doctor did think the surgery was urgent. And as 
IPA chose not to ask for further medical evidence about Mr Ks diagnosis and what treatment 
he required, I still dont think it was fair for it to rely on the policy exclusion clause to turn 
down his claim.
IPA also maintains that Mr Ks surgery was linked to his pre-existing medical history. In my 
provisional decision, I explained that in order to rely on the exclusion for pre-existing medical 
conditions, IPA needed to provide evidence to show a clear link between Mr Ks medical conditions and his gallbladder surgery. IPA hasnt provided any further medical evidence to 
explain how the conditions were linked or which investigations it thought were related to Mr 
Ks surgery abroad. In the absence of such evidence, I dont think its shown that on the 
balance of probabilities, the cause of the claim was related to Mr Ks medical history. So it 
follows that Im not satisfied that its fair for IPA to rely on the pre-existing medical condition 
exclusion to turn down Mr Ks claim.
Overall, Ive decided the fair outcome is for IPA to reassess Mr Ks claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Ks complaint.
I direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to reconsider Mr Ks claim, in line with the
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman