DRN-3402892
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way American International Group UK Limited (AIG) handled his 
mobile phone insurance claim.
What happened
Mr Ws complaint concerns a mobile phone insurance policy that comes as an additional 
product with his bank account. 
Mr W complained to AIG around September last year after becoming unhappy with the way 
the insurer had handled his mobile phone insurance claim. Mr Ws claim included a pair of 
headphones hed lost, which AIG decided wasnt covered under the terms of the policy. 
Mr W is also unhappy at the multiple attempts it had taken for AIG to provide him with a 
suitable replacement phone  Mr W says he experienced receiving a damaged phone, a 
wrong phone and received two replacements at the same time. He says this affected his 
sleep as he works nights and had to ensure he was available to receive each delivery.
AIGs response reiterated that Mr Ws headphones werent covered by the terms of the 
policy, given this wasnt an accessory that came with the phone. The insurer apologised for 
the issues Mr W experienced with receiving a replacement phone and paid him £65 
compensation for the inconvenience it caused him. 
Mr W disputed AIGs response and asked this service to review his complaint. Mr Ws main 
argument is that the terms he saw on his banks website suggests the headphones are 
covered, so the insurer should accept the claim. As part of its submissions to this service, 
AIG offered to increase its compensation payment to £75.
Our investigator concluded that the terms did not cover Mr Ws headphones as this was 
purchased separately to the phone  rather than it being a standard accessory that came 
with the phone. The investigator felt that the compensation AIG had paid didnt fairly reflect 
the inconvenience it caused Mr W and asked the insurer to increase this to £150. 
Mr W accepted the compensation amount but disagreed with the investigators opinion that 
the headphones werent covered. AIG didnt provide any further comments. Mr W asked for 
a final decision, so the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws main point of dispute is that he thinks the headphones should be covered under the 
policy. The terms say that standard accessories supplied with the phone are covered and 
lists things like the charger and memory card as examples. Mr Ws headphones were 
purchased separately and didnt form part of the accessories that may have come with his 
original purchase of the phone. So I think AIG fairly applied its terms when it decided that the 
headphones werent covered.
Mr W refers to the terms that were displayed to him on his banks website. I can see that the 
wording of the terms here are slightly different and, although the terms still reference 
standard accessories, its not necessarily made apparent that the accessory being claimed 
for had to have been supplied with the phone. Because of this slight difference in wording, 
Mr W thinks AIG should stand by whats on the banks website and accept the claim for the 
headphones. 
Mr W also says the terms do not specifically set out that the accessory being claimed for 
must be from the same manufacturer as the phone. And he thinks his headphones can be 
considered as covered given it was compatible with his phone. But I dont agree.
I say this because, although the detail in the way the term is set out on the banks website is 
slightly different, both on the website and the term in the full terms and conditions make it 
clear that the cover is for standard accessories. And I share the investigators opinion that 
this refers to accessories that formed part of the package of items that came with the phone, 
rather than an accessory that Mr W purchased separately. So I wont be asking AIG to 
review its decision to decline Mr Ws claim for his headphones. 
It seems apparent to me that Mr W experienced multiple issues as part of receiving a 
replacement phone. This includes:
Receiving the wrong model
Receiving multiple replacements at the same time
Receiving a replacement phone that later turned out to be damaged
Mr W says this affected his sleep, given he works nights and had to ensure he was around 
to receive each delivery. AIG already seems to accept that it caused Mr W some distress 
and inconvenience. But I dont think the compensation it has paid him fairly makes up for 
what Mr W experienced. 
Mr W experienced a problem with receiving a replacement phone on several occasions and I 
can see from AIGs notes that he had to call each time to notify the insurer of the problem. I 
appreciate that errors can happen, but I think AIG shouldve done more to put this right and 
get the right replacement to Mr W as soon as it knew that something went wrong. Had AIG 
done so, it wouldve avoided affecting Mr Ws sleep and causing him further distress and 
inconvenience. I agree that increasing the compensation to £150 is a fair way to make up for 
the distress AIG caused Mr W.
Mr W also disputes that AIGs courier made a proper attempt to fulfil one of the deliveries. 
AIG said it had photographic evidence suggesting the delivery was attempted. Mr W denies 
this and previously indicated he had his own CCTV footage that shows otherwise. 
Unfortunately, Mr W no longer has access to this footage  given there isnt anything I can 
see to challenge AIGs conclusion on this point, I cant fairly say that the delivery wasnt 
properly attempted.
In summary, Im satisfied that AIG has applied its terms fairly and its decision that Mr Ws 
headphones were not a standard accessory is reasonable. However, AIG caused Mr W 
distress and inconvenience by sending him multiple replacement phones that were either the 
incorrect model or didnt meet the standard that was expected - I think the insurer should 
increase its compensation payment because of this.
Putting things right
AIG unfairly caused Mr W distress and inconvenience. To put things right, it should increase 
its compensation payment to £150.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint in part and direct American 
International Group UK Limited to pay Mr W an additional £85.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman