DRN-3983770
The complaint
Mr C has complained, through his representative, that Serenity Financial Planning Ltd gave
him unsuitable advice to transfer his stakeholder pension to a self-invested personal pension
(SIPP). He says there was no benefit in transferring.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 10 February 2023. The background 
and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to 
uphold it were set out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant parts of the decision below 
and it forms part of this final decision. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Cs complaint. He sent his assessment of it to both
parties in October 2022. The background and circumstances to the complaint and the
reasons why the investigator thought it should be upheld were set out in that assessment.
However to recap, in January 2016 Mr C was contacted by an adviser from Serenity
Financial Planning Ltd to review his existing pensions along with his wifes. A fact find was
conducted which recorded that Mr C was in his early forties, married, and had two financially
dependent children. He was employed on a salary of £21,000 per year and had additional
income of £2,400 from a jointly owned venture that he and his wife had set up. He had cash
savings of £600. Mr and Mrs C owned their own home valued at £330,000, with a mortgage
of £293,000. It was recorded that they had a loan with an outstanding balance of £15,000.
Mr C had said his planned retirement age was 65. He had three pensions at the time of the
advice. They were valued at £42,621, £437 and £282.
Mr C was advised to transfer (technically known as a switch) the pension valued at £46,621
to a SIPP. It was invested in the PIA Dimensional Multi Option: Global Perspective 4
portfolio.
The cost for the advice was £810 plus a 0.25% initial platform charge. In addition, there was
an ongoing adviser charge of 1% of the fund value annually; an annual platform charge of
0.30%; and annual fund charge of 0.22%. In total the annual charges were about 1.52% of
the transfer value.
A Risk Tolerance review was conducted and Mr C scored higher than average. Mr Cs
Attitude to Risk was agreed as Moderately Adventurous Risk - Category 5 (out of
7).
Mr Cs existing fund in the stakeholder pension had the same risk rating (according to the 
fund fact sheet), and an annual charge of 1% guaranteed maximum.
The reasons for recommending to switch from the stakeholder pension were recorded as:
Its charges werent competitive.
It couldnt facilitate the investment strategy the adviser had recommended.
It reflected the agreed strategy to consolidate Mr Cs investments and it would 
simplify the process of managing them and help keep paperwork to a minimum.
The investigator referred to the regulators conduct of business sourcebook (COBS) which
contained rules that firms were bound to follow. In particular, he thought COBS 2.1.1 was
relevant, which required firms to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the
best interests of its clients. And COBS 9.2.1 which set out the obligations on firms in
assessing the suitability of investments.
The investigator also thought the Financial Services Authoritys (FSA) checklist for pension
switching (the regulator at the time the document was published in 2009) still provided
helpful guidance. He said it highlighted key issues it thought should be focussed on which
included:
Charges - had the consumer been switched to a pension that was more expensive 
than their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason.
The investigator said the reasons for the recommendation provided in the suitability report
werent personalised and appeared generic. He said consolidation wasnt achieved, as the
adviser recommended that two out of the three pensions stayed where they were.
The investigator acknowledged that the recommended solution had cheaper fund related
charges than the original stakeholder pension. However he thought this was somewhat
misleading, as it didnt include the 1% ongoing adviser charge. He thought the issue of
adviser charging was a key point, because the SIPP provider would only accept instructions
for any changes to the fund from an adviser. The investigator said this wasnt mentioned in
the suitability report, and he didnt think Mr C would likely have accepted the 
recommendation if hed known about it.
The investigator didnt think the ability to self-invest or have access to a greater fund choice
were features of the SIPP that were important to Mr C. He said Mr C had left investment
management and decision making to professionals. And the investigator thought the existing
stakeholder pension provided sufficient choice and diversity of funds.
The investigator also didnt think Mr C had a need for ongoing advice. He wasnt contributing
to the pension on a regular basis, had no lumps sums he was planning to add, and as the
advice was for a solution that retained its risk profile with automatic rebalancing by the fund
managers, there was little need of ongoing advice.
In summary, the investigator didnt think the existing stakeholder pensions charges were
uncompetitive. And he thought Mr Cs existing funds were appropriate for his risk profile. The
investigator didnt think there were good reasons to switch, and he therefore recommended
that the complaint should be upheld.
Serenity didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. It said, in summary, that it thought
Mr C (and Mrs C) benefited from the ongoing financial planning and coaching service that
theyd engaged with and were happy with up until they decided to terminate it in 2019.
Serenity said Mr and Mrs C had sought its help with their difficult financial situation which
could only be resolved over time. It said they knew Mr and Mrs C appreciated the ongoing
advice and help given.
Serenity said, in summary:It was evident that Mr C required ongoing support and advice. It felt insufficient 
weight had been given to the extensive work it had undertaken pre and post advice. 
It provided details of a number of meetings it had held with Mr C.
It believed Mr C was in a better position after the advice because he was in a lower 
cost pension and in funds aligned to his risk tolerance; had a greater understanding 
of financial matters; had a clear cashflow forecast showing their dependence on their 
pensions and their sustainability. The charges and a charges comparison report were 
included in the suitability report. His previous fund was invested almost entirely in 
equities and didnt match his risk profile. It switched Mr C to a more appropriate 
strategy which matched his risk profile.
It thought the case could set a precedent where a firm couldnt recommend moving to 
a more suitable product which included ongoing advice charges if the overall cost 
was higher.
It provided a full explanation of the service it provided, including its process for 
selecting platforms and investments. It said it undertook extensive whole of market 
research and due diligence. It said the platform selected was just one of the preferred 
platforms available to its clients. It offered a range of model portfolios.
Mr (and Mrs) C had six pension accounts. Four were with one provider. It advised Mr 
C to retain two of his pensions as it wasnt suitable to switch them. Mr and Mrs C 
wanted their finances simplified. Four plans were switched as a result of its 
recommendation, simplifying Mr (and Mrs) Cs affairs. All their plans were included in 
the ongoing financial planning service with the financial planner taking responsibility 
for their oversight.
It referred to the Serenity Client Methodology document which explained it only 
offered a comprehensive financial planning relationship and didnt provide advice on 
a transactional basis. The scope of the relationship was a series of three or more 
meetings ahead of the implementation of any financial product.
Each year it renewed its commitment to Mr Cs ongoing financial planning and 
coaching service by asking Mr C to sign a new Service & Fee Agreement which also 
confirmed the agreed fee. It provided copies of the signed agreements as evidence 
of Mr Cs commitment to an ongoing service.
Notes from several meetings in 2015 recorded, amongst other things that: Mr and 
Mrs C felt they needed to get their finances under control and develop a plan for the 
future; they had unease about the level of credit card borrowing in place which they 
estimated at £30,000 (a later note on 10 June 2016 said this was actually over 
£50,000); an explanation was given about why the portfolio recommended aligned 
with their stated tolerance for risk (using a risk profile questionnaire and considering 
Mr and Mrs Cs need and capacity to accept risk); the implications and cost 
differences of the recommendations was given and how the fee for ongoing financial 
planning and coaching would be paid.
Meeting notes from 2017 and 2018 recorded the financial planner had covered areas 
and support in basic household budgeting; and helped Mr and Mrs C manage their 
credit card debts; by 3 December 2018 the credit card debts had risen to £64,000, 
with monthly repayments of £934.Mr C ended the ongoing financial planning and coaching service in October 2019. 
His e-mail said What you have done so far for us has been enlightening to out 
mindset and hopefully helpful to our pension, but given our limited portfolio, we 
cannot see any benefit to our future finances in carrying on at this time. Thank you 
for everything you have done, we really appreciate it. It said this didnt read as 
someone ready to complain or who had experiences dissatisfaction.
His previous fund was invested 99% in equities and didnt match his risk profile. It 
switched Mr C to a more appropriate strategy which matched his risk profile. Serenity 
had considered the other funds available in the existing pension and found only six 
may have been suitable for Mr C. It provided reasons why it didnt recommend these 
funds  they werent aligned to Serenitys investment philosophy or discounted due to 
either asset allocation or geographic spread. Four were also poor performers over 
the previous five-year period.
It didnt think comparing the performance of the two funds was appropriate in 
calculating fair compensation because the original funds presented significantly more 
risk.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the one hand the SIPP arranged, in itself, had lower charges than Mr Cs existing
pension. And I think the new funds recommended were appropriate for Mr Cs circumstances
at the time. I also accept that the original funds, if looked at as a snapshot in time  and
considered in isolation  presented significant risks.
However on the other, although the original pension was invested almost entirely in equities
at the time of advice, this would gradually reduce during the years leading up to retirement.
So there was a risk mitigation strategy behind it. And Mr C was willing to accept a
moderately adventurous risk and had over 20 years to retirement
So I think there were factors both for and against a switch.
The regulator has made it clear that where advice is to switch an investment and additional
costs apply, they must be justifiable. As explained by the investigator, the advice to switch
resulted in additional charges. Overall the total charges on the new arrangement were about
0.7% higher than the original plan when taking the firms 1% ongoing adviser charge into
account.
I accept that its good practice for clients to regularly review their financial position and
investments to ensure they are meeting their needs and are on track. However as explained
by the investigator, Mr C had over 20 years to his intended retirement date. And the fund 
manager automatically rebalanced the fund to ensure its risks were aligned to its risk
mandate. So was there a real need for it?
Its clear that Mr C (and Mrs C) did have substantial credit cards debts, and the costs of
servicing them were high. Serenity did meet with Mr C on a number of occasions. The
meeting notes show that the main point of discussion was the servicing of the credit card
debts. And this is consistent with the goals for life document which Mr C had completed in
May 2015 which recorded his number one priority was to have debts cleared.
The meeting note and action points document from 28 July 2017 recorded that:The big issue they have at the moment is that they are spending around £780 a month on
servicing their credit card debts which doesnt seem to be reducing enormously and as such
be (sic) are going to spend some time to see if we can work on this. A key part of this would
be to get as much on 0% credit cards as possible to keep the interest down and then look to
make inroads into the payments. It went on to record that the total credit card debts were
£52,185.
As Ive said above, I think there were factors for and against a switch. I think the combination
of funds recommended for Mr C which presented less risk were better suited to his
circumstances at the time. Although he did have a long period to retirement date, he didnt
have a lot of other pension or investment provision to fall back on. The overall costs of the
SIPP were higher than the original pension. However I think Mr C did benefit to some degree
from the ongoing reviews provided by Serenity.
Taking all the above into account, I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude that the
initial advice to switch was clearly unsuitable in the particular circumstances.
However, having said all that, at the time that the initial advice was given the ongoing advice
charge was 1%. This resulted in the total charges being 0.7% higher than the original plan.
However in July 2017 Mr C agreed to pay Serenity a fixed fee of £823. The value of his plan
at that time was £46,959. Serenity has said that Mr C wasnt in a position to pay the fee from
his income, so he agreed to pay the fee from his pension.
The £823 was 1.75% of his fund value. In addition, there were also the other ongoing
charges (platform and annual fund) of 0.55%. So this effectively meant Mr C was paying
charges of 2.3% on his pension. The ongoing advice given was largely about managing the
credit card debts. Payments from the pension should relate to advice about the pension. And
in any event, charges totalling 2.3% would have acted as a significant drag on performance.
Whilst I accept that Mr C signed to agree to the charges, I cant see that its relative costs or
its effect on the pension were explained to Mr C.
Serenity has emphasised its holistic approach to financial planning and the services it
provides. It was clearly aware of Mr Cs overall financial position and his debts. So I think it
should have been taking these into account when providing its advice about Mr Cs pension.
I dont think Serenity was acting in Mr Cs best interests when, knowing of his high debts and
his financial difficulties, and on finding he couldnt afford to pay its fees from his income, it
arranged for them to be taken from the pension. It would have known this would have a
significant affect on its performance and, ultimately, on the level of benefits provided from it.
But Mr C could have got help about his debts from other sources and which were free if
required, rather than depleting his pension fund from July 2017.
My provisional decision
Accordingly, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part.
I intend to order that Serenity Financial Planning Ltd refunds all the ongoing adviser charges
paid to it by Mr C from 28 July 2017. Interest at the rate of 8% simple should be added from
the date each payment was made to Serenity to settlement date. Ive selected this date to
reflect that it did provide a service to Mr C, albeit mainly about his credit card debts. But in
my view it shouldnt have been using the pension to effectively subsidise largely non-pension
related advice from July 2017.
The amount calculated should be paid into Mr C's pension plan, to increase its value by theamount of the compensation and any interest. Serenity should allow for the effect of charges
and any available tax relief.
However Serenity shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict
with any existing protection or allowance. If Serenity is unable to pay the compensation into
Mr C's pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay
it into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should
be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's expected marginal rate of tax at
his selected retirement age. I think Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected
retirement age, so the reduction should equal 20%. However, if Mr C would have been able
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation,
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
I also intend to award Mr C £300 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied has been
caused to him by the matter.
I asked Mr C and Serenity to let me have any further evidence or arguments to consider 
before I made my final decision. 
Mr C, through his representative, said he had nothing further to add.
Serenity responded to say, in summary, that it appeared none of the original complaints had 
been upheld, albeit it accepted that the pension charges shouldnt have been used to fund 
advice that wasnt for pension provision when its fee increased in July 2017. It said this was 
a result of its desire to help someone who was in severe financial difficulty. And that part of 
the fee was for advice about the ongoing suitability of the fund. It requested that I didnt 
refund part of the fees that it would have received had it maintained its percentage-based 
fee in force prior to July 2017. It said it would be happy to refund the excess to Mr Cs 
pension. 
It also didnt agree Mr C should be paid £300 for upset and inconvenience. It said Mr C 
received life changing support at a hugely discounted rate and at the end of the relationship 
Mr C was happy with everything Serenity had done for him. It said it accepted it had made a 
mistake in taking the fees solely from the pension and not signposting Mr C to free debt 
advice. But Mr Cs representative hadnt made any reference to this and Id dismissed the 
representatives accusations of failure. So it didnt think it should pay the £300. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision that the 
complaint should be upheld.
Mr Cs complaint about the transfer included concerns about the higher charges when the 
ongoing adviser charges were taken into account. Ultimately, one of the main reasons to 
transfer is in the hope of building up a higher fund at retirement, and charges are clearly a 
factor on performance. I accept the increase in charges came later. But my decision to 
uphold the complaint wasnt just about where the charges were paid from. It was also the 
extent of the charges, and that they would have been a significant drag on performance.     
Mr C wouldnt have known about the technical issue with the charges or, likely, their impact, 
when he ended his relationship with Serenity. Ive only ordered Serenity to refund charges from 28 July 2017 to reflect that it did provide a 
service to Mr C (both before and after that date), albeit mainly about his credit card debts. 
Serenity has emphasised its holistic approach to financial planning and the services it 
provides, and it has acknowledged it could have signposted Mr C to free debt advice. So I 
think Serenity keeping a proportion of the overall fees is fair  the proportion reflected in 
keeping the fees paid prior to 28 July 2017.  I think this is fair in all the circumstances. I also 
think the £300 is fair. Mr C may have been happy with his relationship with Serenity when 
leaving it. But as I say, he wouldnt have known about the charges issue and the impact it 
would have on his fund.  I think he was caused a degree of distress and inconvenience and 
that £300 is appropriate in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
I order Serenity Financial Planning Ltd to calculate and pay compensation to Mr C as I 
outlined in my provisional decision and copied above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman