DRN-2175687
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Northern Bank Limited (T/A Danske Bank) prevented her from 
accessing funds in her account due to a booked unpaid direct debit.
What happened
Mrs K holds a Danske standard bank account without an overdraft facility. On 12 July 2019 a 
direct debit from a company that Ill refer to as E was presented to Danske. E wanted to 
debit Mrs Ks account in the sum of £312.83. 
E presented its direct debit request after close of business on 12 July 2019. So, the payment 
was due to debit Mrs Ks account on the next working day, which was 15 July 2019.
At the time E presented its request to Danske there were sufficient funds in Mrs Ks account 
to pay the direct debit. Danske therefore booked the direct debit to leave Mrs Ks account 
on 15 July 2019. However, prior to this payment debiting Mrs Ks account, she made a 
payment of £20 to a company and withdrew £200 from an ATM. This left her with an account 
balance of £249.33, which meant she no longer had sufficient funds in her account to cover 
Es direct debit request. 
 
Danske sent a text message alert to Mrs K on the morning of 15 July 2019 to inform her that 
there were insufficient funds in her account to cover Es direct debit payment. Mrs E was 
informed that in order to avoid unarranged overdraft charges shed need to credit her 
account with £63.50 by 3:30 pm the same day.
Mrs K didnt credit her account with the required funds. So, her direct debit to E couldnt be 
paid. And, at 3:30 pm on 15 July 2019, Danske released the funds it had booked for that 
payment back to Mrs K.
Mrs K was unhappy she couldnt access the money that had been set aside for Es payment 
until after 3:30 pm. She felt Danske was preventing her from accessing money in her 
account and complained.
When Danske responded to Mrs Ks complaint it didnt uphold it. It didnt think it had made 
an error and it didnt agree that it had prevented Mrs K from accessing the funds in her 
account.  
Being dissatisfied with Danskes response to her complaint Mrs K referred it to our service. 
Our investigator assessed the evidence Mrs K and Danske had provided but wasnt 
persuaded that Danske had made an error or acted unfairly. So, they didnt uphold Mrs Ks 
complaint. But Mrs K disagreed with our investigators view and asked for her complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think Danske made a mistake, or treated Mrs K unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything she and 
Danske have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mrs K will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mrs K and Danske, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think is 
relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive 
failed to take it on board and think about it. Its because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I am aware that there have been a number of occasions whereby direct debits have been 
requested from Mrs Ks account but there havent been sufficient funds available to cover the 
payment. Mrs K said previous complaints she has made about being unable to access her 
funds in those scenarios have been upheld. But, while I understand why Mrs K may be keen 
for me to know about how Danske has dealt with other complaints shes made, the issue 
here is about how Danske processed her payment to E in July 2019. So, Ill focus on that 
within this final decision.
 
Mrs K has argued that Danske prevented her from gaining access to the money in her 
account. But Danske has explained to Mrs K and our service that when a direct debit request 
is presented it books or reserves the amount requested from the balance in a customers 
account. This means that money cant then be accessed by a customer until the direct debit 
has been processed.
In this case I can see that Danske booked the Mrs Ks direct debit to E after it was 
presented on 12 July 2019. But because this was after close of business on 12 July 2019 the 
payment didnt leave Mrs Ks account that day. Instead, the funds were due to debit the next 
working day, which was 15 July 2019.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mrs Ks Danske current account doesnt 
have an overdraft facility. Having carefully considered her bank statements I can see the 
transactions she made on 13 and 15 July 2019 caused the funds in her account to deplete to 
the extent that her direct debit with E couldnt still be paid.
Ive had sight of the text alert message Danske sent to Mrs K on 15 July 2019. This was sent 
at 9:22 am and made clear that there were insufficient funds in Mrs Ks account to cover Es 
payment. So, shed need to credit £63.50 to her account by 3:30 pm if she wanted to cover 
Es payment.
Im satisfied that, in texting Mrs K, Danske gave her an opportunity to credit her account with 
the required amount to ensure her direct debit to E would be paid. It was Mrs Ks 
responsibility to ensure there were sufficient funds in her account to enable her outgoings to 
be met. 
Im also persuaded that Danske acted reasonably in making efforts to pay Mrs Ks direct 
debit to E. This was an instruction she had set up with E and Danske historically and her 
bank statements show previous payments shed made. 
Mrs K told our investigator she had attempted to cancel the direct debit but had been 
prevented from doing so due to a technical error. But she hasnt provided any evidence to 
support that and Danske said theres no record of any technical errors. Im therefore satisfied 
Mrs K hadnt notified Danske not to pay the direct debit.Mrs K hasnt said she didnt receive a bill from E. So, on the evidence available, Im satisfied 
she would have been aware of the date that Es direct debit was due to debit her account 
and the amount it was for. I therefore cant fairly hold Danske responsible for that fact that 
Es direct debit couldnt be paid.
Ive seen evidence that Danske closes its payment system at 3:30 pm. Thats its payment 
process and this explains why Danske couldnt release the funds it had reserved for Mrs Ks 
payment to E until after that time. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Danske made the money that it had booked 
for Es direct debit available to Mrs K in line with its payment process the same day it was 
unpaid. This was after 3:30 pm when it closed its payment system. I therefore dont agree 
Danske prevented Mrs K from accessing the funds in her account in the way shes 
suggested in her complaint.
I can see Mrs K didnt incur any bank charges from Danske as a result of what happened. I 
think this demonstrates Danske was acting fairly. I say this because, in line with the terms 
and conditions of Mrs Ks account Danske was entitled to charge a fee for an unpaid direct 
debit.
I understand Mrs K is unhappy with how Danske deals with customer funds when it 
processes direct debits and outbound payments. However, we arent the regulator of banks. 
So, we cant ask Danske to change its internal policies or the way in which it deals with 
customer payments. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied Danske followed its payment 
policy properly, which is why it wasnt able to make the booked funds available to Mrs K 
earlier. I also think, given Mrs Ks previous complaints, she ought to have known how 
customer funds are dealt with when payments are processed by Danske.  
Im not persuaded Danske made a mistake or treated Mrs K unfairly. So, Im not going to ask 
it to do anything. I realise Mrs K will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an 
end what we, in trying to resolve her dispute with Danske informally, can do for her. Im sorry 
we cant help Mrs K any further with this.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman