DRN-2949287
The complaint
Mr B complains about the monthly instalment payments collected by Close brothers Limited.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr B used a broker to take out an insurance policy and entered into a credit 
agreement with Close Brothers. Close Brothers were instructed by the broker to take 10 
monthly instalments of £14.90.
The broker then instructed Close Brothers to finance an additional premium of £76.52. Close 
Brothers added this amount to the credit agreement, and this had the effect of increasing the 
direct debit payments to £22.57. The following day the broker instructed Close Brothers that 
it had returned the premium and asked Close Brothers to credit the agreement. This had the 
effect of reducing the direct debit payments to £16.14.
On 12 May 2021 Close Brothers collected the first instalment of £16.14. Following this, Mr B 
contacted Close Brothers and said he was unhappy about the increase t the direct debit 
payment. Close Brothers explained that this had occurred as a result of instructions received 
from the broker.
Following this, the broker contacted Close Brothers and said it had added the further 
premium in error. It asked Close Brothers to cancel the additional premium and re-set up the 
agreement.
Close Brothers wrote to Mr B with a payment schedule. Mr B contacted them to dispute the 
amount shown on the schedule. Close Brothers reviewed the schedule and found an error. It 
also found that Mr B had cancelled his direct debit instruction, that the June payment hadnt 
been collected and that the account was in arrears.
Mr B disputed the arrears. Close Brothers advised Mr B to ignore the arrears letter. It 
acknowledged that the incorrect figure in the schedule had caused confusion and 
inconvenience and paid £75 compensation.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Close Brothers should be held responsible for the premium 
initially increasing because it had only done what the broker had instructed it to do. But he 
said that Close Brothers had sent multiple payment schedules to Mr B, some of which were 
incorrect, which had caused confusion. The investigator said that although the increased 
direct debit payment had caused Mr B to go into his overdraft, this was only by a small 
amount and the compensation already paid was fair and reasonable.
Mr B didnt agree. He said Close Brothers hadnt sent him a copy of its final response letter 
and had reinstated his direct debit without his permission. He also said hed received a 
default notice, which he doesnt think should have bee sent whilst the account was in 
dispute. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand Mr Bs frustration that his direct debit payment increased, I dont think its 
fair to say that Close Brothers made an error when it increased the direct debit amount, 
because it was implementing instructions which it received from the broker. If there was an 
error made in increasing the premium, this should be pursued with the broker.
Mr B has said that the increased direct debit payment caused him to become overdrawn. As 
Ive already said, I cant say that Close Brothers made an error in collecting an increased 
payment. However, I can see that there were errors in some of the payment schedules sent 
by Close Brothers to Mr B, so the direct debit collected from his account was more than he 
was expecting. The difference between the amount Mr M was expecting to pay and the 
payment collected was quite small  a couple of pounds  so I think the compensation 
already paid by Close Brothers is fair.
Mr B has said that he didnt receive Close Brothers final response. Ive reviewed the system 
notes and I can see that a final response was sent to Mr B. I cant say why it wasnt 
received. Moreover, because complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, Im unable to look 
into this aspect of Mr Bs complaint.
I can see that Mr B cancelled his direct debit instruction in May 2021. I can also see that 
Close Brothers set up a new direct debit after this. Mr B says this was done without his 
permission. Looking at the circumstances, I think Close Brothers set up the new direct debit 
to try and put the correct monthly payments into place. Its not clear from the information 
provided whether this was done without Mr Bs permission.
I understand that Mr B had made a complaint and didnt think he should have received an 
arrears letter and default notice whilst his complaint was ongoing. But theres no obligation 
on Close Brothers to suspend account collection activities just because a complaint has 
been made, or because this service is investigating a complaint.
Looking at everything thats happened here, I think Close Brothers did its best to respond to 
an issue which was arguably of the brokers making. I can see that it took steps to correct the 
payment amount as soon as it became aware that the broker had made an error in 
requesting the increased premium. Its unfortunate that in the course of doing so, some 
errors were made in the payment schedules sent to Mr B, but overall I think the £75 paid to 
Mr B fairly compensates him for any confusion caused and for any charges incurred as a 
result of the small amount by which he went overdrawn. That being the case I wont be 
asking Close Brothers to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman