DRN-2364214
The complaint
Ms J has complained Alphabet (GB) Ltd wont allow her to reject the car despite the 
evidence shes provided to them of its condition.
What happened
Ms J took out a hire agreement with Alphabet for a new car in October 2018. She made an 
initial rental payment of £1,231.31 and agreed to make 47 monthly payments of £410.44.
Within a month Ms J was concerned enough about a noise coming from the brakes to refer 
her car to the dealer.  She was told she just needed to take time to let them bed in as they 
are performance brakes.
This problem didnt go away and Ms J had other issues with her car. As she couldnt get 
Alphabet to agree to her rejecting the car, she instructed an independent expert to review 
her car. This report confirmed excessive abnormal noise levels. There was more than 
5,000 miles on the clock at this time and she believed this was unacceptable.  
Alphabet made an offer to clean the brake pads; and replace them if this proved necessary. 
Theyd also carry out a further independent inspection and rebate one months rental. Ms J 
didnt agree this was a fair resolution and brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator believed the evidence provided by the independent expert was convincing. 
Whilst the manufacturer and dealer may have believed the noise was functional and didnt 
impact on the efficiency or operational safety of the car, she believed this was incompatible 
with the condition Ms J should have been able to expect from her car. She agreed Ms J 
could reject her car and have 10% rebated from her monthly payments. Alphabet should 
also pay her £250 for the trouble caused.
Alphabet believed their earlier offer remained fair. They also pointed out Ms Js account was 
not up to date and arrears were building up. They didnt agree Ms Js initial payment was a 
deposit and should be refunded. Ms J believed Alphabet should also be reimbursing the cost 
of the independent report.
As no agreement could be reached, an ombudsman was asked to consider this complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 21 October 2020. I also believed Ms J could reject the 
car but I increased the amount Ms J could have rebated from her monthly payments. I also 
increased the amount of compensation Alphabet should pay for the trouble caused as well 
as asking them to refund Ms J the costs of the independent expert report.
Ms J accepted this outcome in principle. However she asked this service to require Alphabet 
to pay her legal fees as well as increase the amount to be rebated for her monthly 
repayments.
Alphabet also accepted the outcome in principle. They asked the ombudsman to consider 
three aspects:
Ms J currently used a cherished number plate on the car. It is taking DVLA up to 
eight weeks to process a retention of number plates. If this caused a delay in 
Alphabet being able to pick up the car, then they advised they expect Ms J to 
continue to be responsible for repayments;
Increasing the amount Ms J should pay for her monthly payments. They didnt 
believe the mileage Ms J had done in the car showed she was doing low mileage as 
over 5,000 miles had been done in the last seven months; and
As Ms J was in arrears on her monthly payments, they pointed out 8% interest 
should only be added to those payments collected from Ms J.
I now have all I need to complete the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im reaching the same conclusion as the one I made in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why  in the main  Ive not accepted points made by Alphabet and Ms J 
about changing the payments to be made. Otherwise the remainder of my decision will 
remain the same as in my provisional decision.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than either of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. So, for example, Im aware Ms J has raised other 
issues which have concerned her with the car. This is particularly around the issue of fuel 
contamination where I dont believe theres enough evidence to show this was a problem 
with the car itself. I dont believe I need to consider those issues in detail as the main issue 
alone drives the outcome.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im also aware of the detail contained in our investigators views of 27 March and 5 May 
2020. This covers what happened in detail and how both the dealer  and the person who 
completed Ms Js independent report  referred to the noise.
As our investigator has said previously, there is no dispute there is a noise. Ms Js report 
identifies this as excessive and abnormal whilst the dealer thought this would settle after 
some bedding in. I think its clear this hasnt happened.
In fact an email exchange Ms J has shared with us from another dealer in June 2020 
confirms this problem remains and impacts Ms Js ability to enjoy her driving experience.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.The finance agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Alphabet is also the supplier of the goods 
under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is of particular relevance to this complaint. It says that under 
a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
The CRA says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case involving a 
car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things 
like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other 
things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
My starting point is Alphabet supplied Ms J with a brand new car made by a premium 
manufacturer. The rental payments she made would reflect this. 
With this in mind I think it is fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of 
quality to be of a high standard compared to similarly specified but more inexpensive new 
cars. 
The issue Ms J has described with the noise coming from the car is something which she 
reported within the first month. Alphabet and the manufacturer acknowledge this noise. So it 
is clear to me that it hasnt been caused by Ms J nor is it usually expected wear and tear.
The key question here is whether the issue renders the car, as supplied, of unsatisfactory 
quality. Alphabet have pointed to it being a functional noise rather than something which 
would give rise to a case for rejection under the CRA. I have taken this into consideration.
I have thought about whether or not the way Ms Js car is handling is considered to be a 
normal and acceptable characteristic of that model or type of car. I have had regard to the 
fact that cars will handle in a particular way that will not necessarily be considered a defect. 
Depending on what type of car you choose (and to some extent how much you spend) there 
will be reasonably varying degrees of mechanical noise, vibration and smoothness.
However, while I accept that additional noise might be more common in certain types of car 
(such as the model which Ms J purchased). I also recognise there will be situations where 
the particular nature of the issues experienced by a consumer can go beyond the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory. This is relevant to the legal test in the 
CRA and one that I have had regard to when considering what is fair and reasonable here.
My findings are based on the particular circumstances of this complaint and specifically the 
situation concerning Ms Js car.
Safety and other relevant considerations
I appreciate Ms J feels that shes lost all faith in the car. But neither her independent report 
from 2019 or Alphabet have identified any safety issues. 
However safety is not the only relevant consideration when Im deciding whether a car is in a 
satisfactory condition. Despite reassurances over safety  if certain issues with the car are making the driver feel unsafe or uncomfortable, or having some other kind of negative 
impact on the vehicle that is also important when considering the overall question of 
satisfactory quality. I must also consider what Ms J has told us.
What Ms J has said
I note that Ms J complained about this issue early on and has been consistent throughout.  
She took her concerns to a solicitor to give her claim that she could reject the car further 
weight. She clearly doesnt think what she is experiencing is normal, and it is causing her 
concern to a degree that she feels worried.  
However on the other side I can see shes still driving her car. But in March this year the 
mileage only stood at 9,300 although the car was nearly a year and a half old so its clear the 
use shes making of the car is under average. I note the mileage just a week ago stood at 
over 15,000. I believe this suggests that although her usage may have increased, overall it 
still seems below average.
Satisfactory quality
All of the evidence from Ms J and the independent report she paid for indicate the noise is 
abnormal and excessive. Ive seen nothing to suggest I shouldnt rely on this.
My overall impression is that the noise does not appear to be in line with what a reasonable 
person might expect from a car of this price and description. Im also aware  and nobody 
disputes this  that Ms J was never warned of the potential noise her brakes may make. 
This, at least, would have given her an opportunity to make an informed decision.
My decision is on the balance of probabilities. On balance, for the reasons I have given 
above I think that Ms Js car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her. And 
therefore, on a fair and reasonable basis I think she is entitled to have things put right.
Putting things right
All things considered, I dont think the solution proposed by Alphabet is one that Ms J should 
have to accept if she doesnt want to. Based on the evidence I see no reason why Ms J 
shouldnt be able to exercise her right to reject the car.
This would mean the car is collected from her and the finance agreement is cancelled. Ive 
looked at whether Ms J should have her deposit refunded (plus interest). This payment 
Alphabet has said wasnt a deposit but part of the rental to be paid. Alphabet has argued this 
should only be refunded on a pro-rata basis as this payment meant Ms Js monthly 
payments were subsequently reduced. However Ive seen no other evidence  nor is there 
anything written in the hire agreement  that backs this up nor how any reduced payments 
work.
But as were now about two years through the hire agreement, I believe its fair and 
reasonable to ask Alphabet to repay half of that initial rental to Ms J.
I know Ms J has been using her car so it is only fair that she pays her monthly rental. 
However the mileage indicates she is driving this less than the average use. I suspect this is 
related to the experience she has when using the car. Shes told us this wasnt what shed 
been led to expect. I still believe  having taken both Ms Js and Alphabets submissions into 
consideration  that it would be fair and reasonable to rebate those payments by 15%.
Alphabet has pointed out Ms J is in significant arrears on her monthly rental payments. She doesnt dispute this. I can see she made payments up to April 2019 but has only made a 
one-off payment of £450 since then. In which case Alphabet will have to provide Ms J with a 
full statement of what she may owe them after taking into account the redress above.
Its clear that any 8% simple interest should only be added to payments Ms J has made, 
rather than those that remain outstanding.
Ms J paid for the independent report. This cost £1,500 in May 2019 and will need to be 
refunded to her.
Ms J has asked me to consider whether Alphabet should pay some of her legal costs. Our 
service does not require any party to hire legal support to bring any complaint to us. As 
stated earlier we are set up as a free (to complainants) alternative to the courts. Unless there 
were specific reasons  and Ive not seen any relevant here  it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable to ask a business to repay a complainants legal costs. And finally our 
investigator awarded £250 for the trouble caused to Ms J. I am increasing this to £450. This 
reflects the time this has taken to resolve.
I would emphasise that Ms J needs to take steps to retain her own number plate  if she 
wishes to do this  in enough time for the car to be available for collection by Alphabet.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Alphabet (GB) Ltd to:
 end the hire agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Ms J;
 refund half of the initial rental payment of £1,231.31 paid on 23 November 2018;
 refund 15% of all of her monthly payments; 
 remove any adverse data relating to the finance agreement from her credit file;
 refund the cost of the expert report of £1,500 paid on 14 May 2019; and
 pay Ms J £450 for the trouble caused.
Alphabet should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds calculated from when Ms J 
made the payments to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman