DRN-3985648
The complaint
Mr P complains, in summary, about the unsatisfactory customer service provided by 
Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, (Virgin Money) with regard to his current 
account and savings accounts. 
What happened
Mr P is concerned about the customer service he received from Virgin Money when he was 
unable to gain access to his current account and savings accounts for around three months. 
Virgin Moneys branch had set him up to use its mobile app to access his accounts. This had 
worked well for many months but in early April 2022, Mr P found he could no longer access 
his accounts via Virgin Moneys mobile app. He spent many hours trying to contact Virgin 
Money on the phone and through Virgin Moneys messaging and chat services. He was 
promised calls back which he didnt receive. Mr P experienced long wait times but when he 
managed to speak to Virgin Money, it wasnt able to resolve the issue for him. He was 
unable to obtain an appointment with Virgin Money at a branch to resolve the issue and he 
had to borrow money from family and friends to pay bills as he couldnt access his money. 
Ultimately, in late June 2022, Virgin Money suggested to him that he go to his local branch 
which was around 24 miles from his home to rectify the situation. Mr P also made three 
round trips (lasting four to five hours) to obtain financial help from his family. He was also 
provided with incorrect information by Virgin Money when he made a payment from the local 
branch in late June 2022. Mr P also feels the issue has impacted his health.
In its final response letter, Virgin Money fully supported Mr Ps complaint and accepted that 
the service he received was below the standard expected and it apologised that it had let 
him down. It offered to make a compensation payment of £200 by way of apology plus £20 
to cover Mr Ps petrol costs in visiting its branch. It paid this into Mr Ps current account in 
late July 2022.
The investigator agreed that Mr P had received poor service from Virgin Money, and she 
accepted this had caused him distress and inconvenience. But she said that Virgin Money 
had resolved the complaint fairly.
Mr P disagreed and responded to say that Virgin Money had upgraded its mobile banking 
app without telling him and this had caused the access problem. He had been trying to 
contact the bank via telephone and email for some three months without ever being able to 
get through to establish that his account still existed, and his funds were still in place. 
After three months he was finally given the authority to attend his nearest branch to rectify 
the app issues by re-signing in, which then allowed him access to his account. Whilst at the 
branch, he transferred funds to another bank from his Virgin account. The following morning, 
he was contacted by Virgin Moneys fraud department and was told that the previous days 
transfer was withheld due to the lack of activity on his account for the preceding three 
months. This caused him more concerns. Following security checks, the transfer was 
completed. 
Mr P also referred to the investigators statement in her view that he could have visited Virgin 
Moneys branch or used telephone banking earlier to access his account. He said that hed 
asked Virgin Money if it was possible for him to attend a branch, but he was repeatedly 
informed that his account was an internet based account and visiting a branch personally 
wouldnt help and that he should wait until the complaint procedure was over.
Mr P also said that he was caused a great deal of stress and worry. He had deposited his life 
savings into Virgin Moneys savings account and had never received confirmation the funds 
were safe and secure or even if the account still existed during the complaint period. This 
caused him to have to approach his children for funds. 
The investigator responded to say that she acknowledged Mr Ps comments that he couldnt 
get through on the phones to Virgin Money as the wait times were long, but she said that he 
did have the option to visit his local branch. Shed not seen any evidence of him being told 
not to visit a branch. The investigator also said that with reference to his branch payment 
being stopped, despite Virgin Moneys staff telling him it would be sent straight away, it was 
stopped by Virgin Money due to concerns its fraud team had. After speaking to Mr P and 
completing its checks, the payment was successfully sent.
Mr P responded to say that he had tried to book an appointment to visit his local branch to 
resolve his issues and complaint. However, every time there were no appointments 
available. When he managed to contact Virgin Money, he was informed that as he had 
lodged a complaint on his account, and as it was an internet banking issue, it couldnt be 
resolved at a local branch. Mr P had also mentioned to Virgin Money the three return trips he 
had to make to ask his children for financial help, but Virgin Money had omitted to 
compensate him for these trips. He tried to contact Virgin Money regarding these expenses, 
but it said that it was unable to deal with this as he had already complained to this Service. 
Mr P said that the investigator failed to understand and acknowledge the financial and 
stressful consequences of 16 weeks without knowing if his account was safe, his being 
unable to access the account and the complete lack of help and support from Virgin Money. 
He had also had to spend time making phone calls and writing emails and was concerned 
about the delay in Virgin Money dealing with his complaint. 
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, as an 
ombudsman, to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Ps strength of feeling about what happened. Its clear how strongly Mr P 
feels about his complaint. I want to assure him that Ive carried out an independent review 
and considered everything that both parties have submitted. We provide an informal 
complaints handling service as a free alternative to the courts. This is reflected in the way 
Ive approached the complaint. Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core 
issues I need to address in order to reach a fair outcome  this means I might not mention 
everything Mr P has said, but I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the 
outcome of the complaint. 
I note that Virgin Money acknowledged that it had caused the issues which resulted in Mr P 
being unable to log into his mobile app. It also apologised to Mr P for the overall poor service 
he received and it believed the payment of £220 compensation was a fair and reasonable 
resolution to his complaint.As Virgin Money has accepted its responsibility for the issues causing Mr Ps complaint, I 
wont be investigating this any further here. But as Mr P doesnt believe that Virgin Moneys 
offer of compensation is fair, I need to consider the overall impact the whole experience has 
had on Mr P when assessing fair compensation. I can see that he was caused considerable 
distress, upset and worry as well as frustration and inconvenience over around four months.
I asked the investigator to ask both parties to provide more information about the 
circumstances of the complaint including copies of the communications between the parties 
and call recordings.
In particular I note the following:-
- It took Virgin Money almost three months to restore to Mr P the use of the mobile app 
and access to his accounts. 
- Mr P spent a significant number of hours over many weeks trying to contact Virgin 
Money by phone, email, messaging, chat and social media to try to resolve the issue. 
Hed said hed spent 70 hours making calls to Virgin Money which nobody answered. I 
have seen copies of multiple messages between Virgin Money and Mr P which evidence 
his frustration over the time taken to contact Virgin Money and his concerns over his 
inability to access his money. He was told by Virgin Money to phone certain numbers 
which he did but was unable to speak to anybody. As an example to show Mr Ps 
frustration, one of his messages in late April 2022 to Virgin Money said:-
 I have sat on the phone for hours trying to speak to a human in regard to my complaints. 
Ive only ever got thru once. In 3 weeks. Please forward an address so that I can write. That 
way I shall have a form of proof to my complaints. As its obvious no one answers the 
phones and people who access messages just inform them to try calling. Its such a total 
farce having accounts Im unable [to] access.
- On 21 April 2022, Mr P said that hed run out of battery waiting for someone from Virgin 
Money to answer on five occasions. He was promised call backs which never occurred. 
Virgin Money asked him to contact facebook and twitter. He said he received no 
response to this. He tried to use chat but said he was given incorrect information by the 
chat process. Virgin Money has sent us a copy of a chat between the parties. It appears 
from this that the information provided wasnt helpful to Mr P.
-I have listened to a recording of a call between the parties on 7 April 2022. It is clear 
from that call that Mr P viewed the issue as an emergency. He also made it clear to 
Virgin Money that he didnt have the mobile phone skills to take the steps Virgin Money 
suggested to resolve the matter. I dont think Virgin Money took sufficient regard of this 
and it should have made adjustments to the service it provided in order to assist Mr P 
better and provide a swift solution for him to access his money. In that call Virgin Money 
said it would call back the next day, but this doesnt appear to have happened. I can see 
that Mr P was caused frustration by Virgin Moneys agents failure to grasp his low 
technology skills here.
- I have listened to another call on 21 June 2022. Virgin Moneys agent tried to assist     
Mr P in changing his password, but it became clear that Mr P needed a second device 
to do this. Virgin Money said it would phone Mr P the following day when he had internet 
access and a second device. Mr P had then made a special trip from home to get 
internet access to use his second device, but he didnt receive the promised call back. I 
can see that this would have caused him further frustration.
- Mr P said he couldnt access internet banking as he hadnt been provided with the 
identification code required to access the website.
- Mr P said hed never been told by Virgin Money that he could obtain money from his account in a post office.
- Mr P was concerned whether his money was safe as well as being unable to access his 
account to check his balance and to transfer funds between his accounts. He didnt 
receive account statements after the app problems began as they could only be viewed 
on the app. I would have reasonably expected Virgin Money to have taken steps soon 
after Mr P raised the issue with it to provide postal statements to reassure him about his 
funds.
- Mr P ultimately had to spend around four hours going to Bs nearest branch to his home 
to resolve the matter. I note that the branch was around 24 miles from his home. 
- To add to Mr Ps frustration, he was told incorrectly by Virgin Money that an important 
payment would be processed on the day when he was in Virgin Moneys branch, but it 
was delayed to the following day. I have listened to the recording of a call in                
late June 2022 following his visit to the branch. Mr P said that hed received an 
unintelligible voice message from Virgin Moneys fraud team and was concerned that 
there had been a fraud on his account.  He was further concerned to be told on that call 
that the payment hadnt been made.
- Mr P had asked Virgin Moneys agent on 7 April 2022 to register the issue as a formal 
complaint. It took almost four months for Virgin Money to provide a final response letter 
to Mr Ps complaint. This caused him more frustration as hed been told it should take no 
more than eight weeks.
Mr P said that the issues had caused him health problems and that he suffered a heart 
attack during this time. I asked for more information about this. Mr P provided a medical 
report. I can see this said whilst Mr P had intermittent chest pains, the symptoms were not 
cardiac in nature. I cant safely say that the problems with Virgin Money caused the chest 
pains, but I dont think they can have helped them.
Mr P said he had to borrow cash from family to pay his bills and that he had to make three 
long trips to do this. But I note that Mr P had a current account with another bank, and I think 
his family could have paid money into this account which Mr P could have withdrawn as 
cash using a debit card in an ATM. So, taking this into account, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to ask Virgin Money to pay for Mr Ps costs for these three trips. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think that the £200 paid to Mr P was fair 
compensation for all this, although I think £20 was fair compensation for the cost of petrol to 
Virgin Moneys branch. But the issue didnt get resolved for nearly three months. Mr P was 
vulnerable, and he was put to significant effort and stress trying to resolve it. I can 
understand that Mr P was worried about his money, that he couldnt get access to it to pay 
his bills and he was caused a substantial amount of inconvenience and emotional distress 
over a long period of time. So, I thought that it would be reasonable for Virgin Money to pay 
Mr P an additional £500 compensation (in addition to the £220 already paid) for all the 
frustration, inconvenience and distress caused to Mr P. 
I asked the investigator to ask Virgin Money and Mr P for their comments on my thoughts. 
Both Virgin Money and Mr P accepted my proposal for Virgin Money to pay Mr P an 
additional £500 compensation.
As both parties have agreed my thoughts on what would be an appropriate outcome here, it 
follows that I uphold this complaint in part and require Virgin Money to take the following 
steps.
Putting things right  what Virgin Money needs to doVirgin Money should put things right for Mr P by paying him an additional £500 
compensation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, to put things right as Ive 
set out above under the heading Putting things right  what Virgin Money needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman