DRN-2022124
The complaint
Mrs P says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
In 2003, Mrs P applied for a Capital One credit card. During a subsequent card activation 
call, it sold her a PPI policy to go with it. The policy protected her card repayments in the 
event she couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Capital One disagreed, so the case 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont think Capital One recommended the policy to Mrs P. Although it should still have 
given her clear, fair and not mis-leading information about the PPI so she could make her 
own informed decision as to whether it was right for her. 
Ive looked at the information Mrs P was given, but I dont think she was told everything she 
should have been about the main things the policy didnt cover. I think that would have 
mattered to Mrs P. I say that because she tells us that, at the time of sale, she was an 
agency worker and was in temporary employment. 
The policy made it more difficult for those in agency/temporary work when it came to 
claiming unemployment benefit than for those in more common types of employment. I dont 
think Mrs P would have taken the policy out had she known about the policy restrictions that 
would have affected her. 
Ive thought carefully about the arguments Capital Ones raised but I still think I should 
uphold the complaint. For example, Capital One says Mrs Ps recollections of her work 
status were different on the PPI questionnaire (PPIQ) she completed, in which she ticked to 
indicate she was employed. 
Its true that she was given the option in the PPIQ to say she was a temporary/agency 
worker but left that option blank. However, I dont think that undermines the information shes 
given us more recently. Thats because she didnt give a date of sale in the PPIQ  so its 
possible she simply (and mistakenly) assumed she was in permanent employment when the 
PPI was sold. As she clarified with us, she started at the agency in early 2002 but her 
position then became permanent in late 2005. In my view, its safe for me to rely on her 
testimony.  
Had Mrs P given the correct date of sale (or something close to it) on the PPIQ and indicated 
she wasnt a temporary/agency worker, I might have seen things differently. But not as 
things stand.
 
Taking everything into account, I believe Mrs Ps lost out because of how Capital One sold 
her the PPI. It should now put things right for her.
Putting things right
Capital One should put Mrs P in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A. Capital One should find out how much Mrs P would have owed when she closed her 
credit card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Capital One should then refund the difference between what Mrs P owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Capital One can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. Capital One should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs P would 
have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when Capital One works out what Mrs P would have owed each month without PPI 
 Mrs P paid more than enough to clear her balance, Capital One should also pay 
simple interest on the extra Mrs P paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the 
point when Mrs P would have owed Capital One something on her credit card. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. Capital One should tell Mrs P what its done to work out A, B and C. HM Revenue & Customs requires Capital One to take off tax from this interest. Capital One 
must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Capital One 
(Europe) plc to put things right for Mrs P as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman