DRN-3430253
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) has 
rejected her claim for the cost of veterinary treatment for her dog on the ground that Mrs C 
hadnt taken proper care and attention as required by her policy.
What happened
The background to Mrs Cs complaint is known to both parties so I wont repeat it here in 
detail. Briefly stated, Mrs C has a puppy who Ill refer to as A who swallowed various 
foreign objects that had to be removed from his stomach by the vet. A had previously eaten 
a pencil and a sock. 
C&G says that Mrs Cs policy with it requires her to take proper care and attention to her pet 
and to ensure that he is under control at all times. It relies upon the following policy term to 
reject her claim:
General Conditions
 You must provide proper care and attention to Your pet at all times and take all 
reasonable precautions to prevent Accidental Injury or damage, as well as 
arranging and paying for Treatment for Your pet to reduce the likelihood of Illness 
or Accidental Injury
 You must ensure that Your dog is under control at all times, and due care 
should be maintained to prevent Your dog from escaping and causing itself 
Accidental Injury or any other persons or animals.
C&G maintains that as As vets clinical notes confirm that A had ingested foreign bodies on 
previous occasions, this would indicate that A had not been kept under complete control at 
all times.
As Mrs C wasnt satisfied with C&Gs rejection of her claim she brought her complaint to this 
service. Our investigators view was that she didnt think that Mrs C couldve taken further
reasonable precautions to prevent the accidents from occurring. She was persuaded that A 
wasnt left unsupervised and was being cared for during all three instances and that it wasnt 
fair or reasonable for C&G to decline the claim on the basis that she didnt meet the
general conditions of the policy.
As C&G disagrees with out investigators view, Mrs Cs complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision from this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done do, Im uploading Mrs Cs complaint.
Ive considered the policy term that C&G relies upon. I dont consider that the second part of 
it, which refers to a dog being kept under control at all times, is applicable in this case. I 
consider its primary purpose is to address injury or accidents that can occur to a dog, other 
person or other animals if a dog is, for example, not on a lead in circumstances where it 
would be reasonable to ensure that it was.
Having regard to the first part of the term referred to by C&G, I consider that to expect Mrs C 
to have her eyes on A at all times to prevent him from potentially a split-second action is 
unreasonable. The fact that previous incidents were acted upon so quickly evidences that 
Mrs C was aware of what A was up to and acted swiftly.
I also dont agree with C&Gs suggestion that to prevent any recurrence of A finding and 
eating something he shouldnt, he should be muzzled. I consider such a suggestion to be 
unreasonable. Its common knowledge that young dogs chew as part of their development. 
In my opinion Mrs C did not fail to take proper care and attention of A. I consider she 
provided proper care and attention within the bounds of what is reasonable.  A young dog 
cannot reasonably be closely monitored continuously, and accidents can happen even if 
reasonable precautions are taken to prevent them. Mrs C was aware of the risks in failing to 
do so because of the previous incidents. I consider she took reasonable precautions to 
prevent such incidents and swift remedial steps to prevent injury when they had occurred 
because they had occurred so quickly.
I dont consider it is fair or reasonable for C&G to decline her claim in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint.
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to assess Mrs Cs claim 
subject to the other terms and conditions of her policy.
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd settles Mrs Cs claim, I also require 
it to pay Mrs C  interest on the sum paid at the simple rate of 8%  from the date her claim 
was made to the date that payment is made to her by Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd.
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if Mrs C asks for one so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman