DRN-3269623
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy at the interest and charges Santander UK Plc (Santander) applied to her 
account over the years. She says the charges left her short on pension and caused her 
financial difficulty.
What happened
Ms R complained to Santander that it levied excessive charges on her account when she 
was in financial difficulty. Santander says all charges were applied correctly in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account but offered her a gesture of goodwill payment of £50 
which Ms R rejected.
One of our adjudicators looked into her concerns and reached the conclusion Santander 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Ms R unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Ms R disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
Why I think we can only look at part of your complaint
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Ms R raised her complaint in February 2021 in relation to charges applied to her account 
dating back to 2014. Six years before she raised her complaint is February 2015. And as the 
charges for use of the account wouldve been notified to Ms R at the time they were being 
applied, I think she ought to have known enough to decide whether they were unfair or 
causing financial difficulty. So, I dont think that three years from when Ms R ought to be 
reasonably aware she had reason to complaint provides her with a longer period than the six 
year rule. So, I will only be looking at charges applied from February 2015.
I can still look into Ms Rs complaint about overdraft charges outside this time if Im satisfied 
the failure to complain earlier was due to exceptional circumstances. Ms R has told us that 
she was overseas and wasnt receiving statements so she didnt know that she was being 
charged, so she wouldnt have known to complain. 
I sympathise with Ms R and I accept that managing her account from abroad is not always 
straightforward. But I can see from notes recorded on Santanders system that Ms R was 
given a refund of charges in 2014 and at the same time educated about the charges that 
applied to her account. And ultimately it is Ms Rs responsibility for managing her account 
and updating Santander with her address details so she can continue to receive important 
correspondence such as bank statements from it. 
I understand why ensuring she received bank statements and information on her account 
while she was abroad may not have been a priority for Ms R, but I dont think it would be fair 
to penalise Santander for this. And as such I dont think that exceptional circumstances 
apply so I am unable to look at charges applied before February 2015. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Rs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Ms R has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to her account. But before I 
go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts Santander charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Santanders various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms R if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Ms Rs account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Ms R was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Santander didnt treat Ms R fairly 
and reasonably. I dont think that Santander did treat Ms R unfairly or unreasonably here 
though. I say this because having looked at Ms Rs statements I cant see anything to 
suggest that Santander ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial 
difficulty prior to it being notified of this. Indeed, in the years Ive looked at, Ms R very rarely 
if at all went into overdraft and mainly had a healthy credit balance in her account. 
So I cant say there is anything which ought to have alerted Santander to any potential 
financial difficulty. And in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for 
Santander to proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Ms Rs 
account was being used. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Santander treated Ms R unfairly 
or unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman