DRN-4358459
The complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc keep blocking his payments and they have provided him 
with poor customer service.
What happened
Mr H has attempted to make several faster payments online over a period of months, but 
these are often blocked by TSB, even if some of these payments are to himself. He says he 
needs to ring them to unblock the payments, but this can be costly as he is sometimes 
overseas when he tries to ring them, and his call is sometimes disconnected. Mr H has said 
he is often passed from one department to another and has faced long call times. He says 
that even when a payment is unblocked, a new payment could be blocked again, which 
causes him to have to repeat the process of having to remove the block again. 
Mr H says he has been asked to provide identification through TSBs mobile application, 
even though he did not have access to this. Mr H has said that the blocks have caused him 
to miss out on things such as a house purchase and buying a car. Mr H made a complaint to 
TSB, and he said a complaint could only be made over the phone as there was no way to 
complain on their website.
TSB partially upheld Mr Hs complaint and they credited £30 to his account. TSB said it is 
part of their terms and conditions that they will sometimes complete extra security checks. 
They apologised for the call wait times to speak to their fraud department and they said they 
were recruiting more staff to reduce the wait times. TSB said they were unable to give Mr H 
the reason why the transactions were blocked because they must maintain the effectiveness 
of their security measures. Mr H brought his complaint to our service.
Before our investigator issued his view of Mr Hs complaint, TSB offered to increase the 
compensation by an extra £120 and to pay Mr H £50 for his call costs (or if he could provide 
his itemised billing showing more costs then they would be able to consider this). 
Our investigator thought that the extra £120 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
and £50 for phone costs was fair. He said he didnt think that TSB made an error in declining 
the transfers that Mr H was trying to make, as they were following their processes and the 
terms of the account. He said TSB failed to respond to some letters and correspondence Mr 
H had sent them about the problems he faced. Our investigator said TSB explained to Mr H 
that to remove the blocks he would need to speak to them, but he could see Mr H refused to 
do this, so he couldnt say that TSB made errors in keeping the account blocked as he 
couldnt see that Mr H contacted TSB until later. 
Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said the compensation offered does not cover the cost of his calls, the cost of 
his time wasted, the loss of interest from investments, and the impact on his life that this had 
on him and the stress this caused him. He said he was unable to provide actual physical 
proof for most of these items. Mr H said that this whole scenario has been caused by failures 
or inadequate programming in TSBs systems and there are inadequate checks and 
balances built in to safeguard clients. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Hs complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.  
I must make it clear to Mr H that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how they 
should operate their security procedures, such as what questions they should ask Mr H, 
when they should block a transaction, and what type of accounts they should block 
payments to  even if they are in the same name of their customer. It is also not within our 
services remit to tell a business what systems they should use or how these should be 
operated. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have 
the power to instruct TSB to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
TSBs personal banking terms set out how they can refuse to make a payment. As they had 
concerns about several payments Mr H was trying to make, they took measures to block 
these payments from completing. Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and 
keep their customers accounts safe and prevent them from being victims of fraud and 
scams. Sometimes they identify and block legitimate payments due to security concerns. 
This can cause distress and inconvenience to a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean 
they have acted incorrectly. 
TSBs security procedures mean that Mr H would have to give them a call to complete their 
security process. And if Mr H was unable to answer all of the questions, then TSB may ask 
him to provide further identification via another method, for example such as uploading 
identification to a mobile application, a computer or to visit a branch. Our service is unable to 
stipulate to TSB how they should verify they are speaking to a genuine customer. They are 
not obliged to divulge the reason for these blocks to Mr H as this could breach security 
protocols and help people circumvent their fraud prevention systems. So while I know its 
been very stressful and upsetting for Mr H to have to contact TSB each time a payment is 
blocked, I cant say TSB have made an error in following their security processes here.
Ive considered what Mr H has said that the only way to complain to TSB is over the phone. 
But their website does show other ways that Mr H could complain to them if he didnt have 
access to the TSB mobile application, such as using their online form, at a TSB branch, or 
by writing to them. So if Mr H has further issues with TSB that he wants to make a complaint 
to TSB about, he can rest assured that there are other options apart from ringing them, to 
make a complaint to TSB.
Ive considered what Mr H has said about the impact of the blocks on him meaning that he 
was unable to buy things like a house and a car. But by Mr Hs own admission, due to the 
experience he had previously, he refused to ring TSB until later to remove the block, so Mr H 
may have been able to mitigate the impact this had on him if he did ring them each time as 
soon as the payment was blocked. In addition, TSB have confirmed that during this 
timeframe, his account was not fully blocked, and he could have used other methods to 
make payments such as telephone banking, visiting a branch and using his debit card. They 
have told us that while they do have the option to apply a full fraud block, this type had not 
been applied to Mr Hs accounts. But Im persuaded there were times when TSB let Mr H down. Hes told us (and TSB have 
not disputed this), that he often has to speak to a number of operators in order to get through 
to someone who can help him, he has spent many hours on the phone trying to remove the 
block from the payments he has tried to send, and it appears TSB have not responded to all 
of his communication they have sent him.  
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. As Mr H has been unable to 
provide an itemised phone bill for his call costs, then Im satisfied that £50 is reasonable for 
his call costs, as Ive not seen any evidence his call costs were higher than this amount. Mr 
H has spent hours on the phone to TSB and has been passed to different departments and 
call handlers which would inconvenience him, and this would cause him distress. All of his 
correspondence has not been responded to also, which would be frustrating. Mr H has told 
us he wasnt informed of alternative methods to upload his identification, and this had an 
impact on him as he didnt have access to the TSB mobile application. So I do think the £30 
that TSB originally offered him did not reflect the impact that this would have on him.
Im persuaded that the extra £120 (and £50 for call costs) that TSB have now offered is 
reasonable for what happened here. I know Mr H wants considerably more compensation 
than this, but our awards are not designed to punish a business. This compensation is in line 
for our awards for what happened here, so I follows TSB should put things right for Mr H.
Putting things right
TSB offered to pay Mr H a further £120 for distress and inconvenience and £50 for his call 
costs. Im satisfied that this is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. TSB Bank plc should pay Mr H an extra £120 for distress and 
inconvenience and £50 for his call costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman