DRN-2960725
The complaint
Mr C complains about AXA Insurance Plcs handling of his building insurance claim.
All references to AXA also include its agents.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
Mr C has raised several issues regarding the handling of his claim. I also note AXA have
previously provided final responses to complaints raised by Mr C. 
My decision focusses on events following AXAs final response of August 2019 to the final 
response issued in early November 2019. Any references to events outside of the dates
set out above are purely for contextual purposes only.
In May 2016 there was a fire at the property of Mr Cs neighbour. The fire spread, 
causing damage to an outbuilding which Mr C was in the process of converting into 
rentable accommodation
Mr C raised a claim with AXA who sent an adjuster to the property
In the earlier stages of the claim, Mr Cs neighbour wouldnt provide access to their 
property for AXA to complete their investigations, but it did provide a proposed scope 
of works
As they were unable to access the neighbours property, any work was unable to 
begin, and the claim didnt progress. AXA later took court action to gain access
Following this, a different opinion was reached regarding the proposed work that 
needed to be carried out to Mr Cs outbuilding
In particular, there is a dispute between AXA and Mr C regarding the rear wall  and 
whether it needs to be repaired or replaced. Mr C is unhappy with the scope of works 
proposed and feels it isnt enough to cover all damage at his property
AXA have attended the property several times and separate loss adjusters appointed 
to inspect the property were unable to agree on a remedy or proposed schedule. In 
response to Mr Cs complaint in August 2019 AXA appointed a surveyor to provide 
comment
The surveyor visited the property and considered all previous findings from loss 
adjusters. Having done so, they said AXA were not liable for the damage to the rear 
wall as the defect did not seem to be directly attributable to the fire. They detailed 
there appeared to be other contributing factors causing the issues
Following this AXA decided to cash settle Mr Cs claim, as some of the works Mr C 
was intending to do, fell outside of AXAs proposed scope
Mr C is unhappy with the scope of work proposed, he feels both walls should be 
replaced and feels the amount offered by AXA is insufficient to complete the works
Mr C complained to AXA. In their final response AXA said its surveyor concluded the 
damage in the rear wall was not related to the claim. And as uninsured works were 
required, and it could not agree a scope of works with Mr C, a cash settlement was 
the best way to proceed
AXA said it felt the correct decision had been made and the amount offered was a 
reasonable amount to cover the insured repairs
AXA also provided Mr C with an un-costed scope of work for him to obtain 
comparable quotes. AXA said it would consider any Mr C provided
AXA accepted they had failed to answer requests from Mr C  such as providing a 
list of the visits that have taken place between it and Mr C. AXA offered Mr C £100 
for the inconvenience caused
Mr C didnt agree with AXAs response, so he brought his complaint to our service
He is also unhappy with the overall length of time the claim had taken and AXAs 
handling of it
Mr C also added he has lost guaranteed rental income on the property and had 
tenants due to move into the property around September 2016. He has provided a 
copy of an agreement to support this
Our Investigator didnt recommend we uphold Mr Cs complaint.
My provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision on 19 July 2021. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr C has strong views about what has happened, and I appreciate from what
hes told us about the incident, and the length of time the claim has been going, that it has
been stressful.
Mr C has provided numerous submissions to support his complaint and I want to assure him
Ive read and considered them all carefully.
However, I hope Mr C wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the
central issues, and not all the points raised, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision
isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr C, and by AXA, to reach what I think is
a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
As Ive said above, I note AXA have previously provided final responses to complaints raised
by Mr C regarding his claim. My decision focusses on events following AXAs final response
of August 2019 to the final response issued in early November 2019.
Proposed works and AXA relying on its surveyors findings
AXA are entitled to rely the opinions of experts to help inform their decisions. But I
appreciate the scope of works changing wouldve been frustrating to Mr C.
As there was a disagreement between AXAs adjusters regarding what works needed to be
carried out and the suggested remedies, AXA appointed a surveyor. I dont think this was
unreasonable and would be in line with what our service would have recommended.
The surveyor considered all information available as well as making their own inspections in
order to reach their conclusions - and they concluded the damage to the rear wall wasnt
directly attributable to the fire. The surveyor offered further explanation as to why and whatthey believed caused the damage. The surveyor has also approved the recent scope of
works. So in the absence of any further information, I cant say this is obviously wrong.
Cash Settlement Amount
Its not unusual for businesses to offer cash settlements in some circumstances and I can
see in the policy, the amount offered wont exceed what theyd pay their preferred
contractors.
But as AXA have chosen to provide Mr C with a cash settlement due to the nature of the
claim, Id expect it to indemnify him so he can have the work done independently and at the
amount it would cost Mr C. AXA have said it would consider external quotes provided by Mr
C, which is in line with what wed expect it to do. So, I dont think theyve acted unreasonably
here.
Rental agreement
I cant see the issue regarding loss of rent forms part of this complaint. However, I put it to
AXA that Mr C has provided our service with a rental agreement due to begin in September
2016. AXA said they have not been provided a copy of the agreement but have said they will
review this as part of the claim if Mr C could send them a copy.
Compensation and delays
AXA accepted it had failed to provide lists of information requested by Mr C and
acknowledged it had deducted the excess from Mr Cs settlement, despite it being paid
previously.
Because of this AXA offered Mr C £100 compensation. Considering the issues raised and
the time frame set out above, I think the amount is sufficient for the inconvenience caused.
So I wont be making any further award.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr C didnt agree with my provisional findings and reiterated his points. He said AXA had 
initially agreed to rebuild the walls and as the years have passed, the damage from the fire 
has become less obvious, which means AXA has now tried to change their stance. 
Mr C commented the amount offered by AXA wasnt enough to complete repairs and he 
cannot get quotations as there are too many unknown factors about the depth of work 
needed. He said AXA offers no guarantee they would pay anything extra should he provide 
quotations.
He also reiterated his points regarding being at a financial loss due to not being able to rent 
out the property.
AXA have provided no further comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive considered everything Mr C has said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my 
reasoning. 
AXA are entitled to review their position if further information comes to light. In this case, 
during further investigation, AXA suggested a repair could be completed rather than 
rebuilding the wall - and the proposed scope of work changed. 
I appreciate Mr Cs frustration the scope of work changed, and I understand why he would 
question it.  But as I said in my provisional findings, as there was a disagreement between 
AXAs adjusters, they appointed a surveyor to comment  which would be in line with what 
our service would have recommended as a fair and reasonable solution.
The surveyor considered all information available as well as making their own inspections in
order to reach their conclusions - and they concluded the damage to the rear wall wasnt
directly attributable to the fire. The surveyor offered further explanation as to why and what
they believed caused the damage. The surveyor also approved the most recent scope of
works. So in the absence of any further information, I cant say this is obviously wrong.
Cash Settlement
AXA said it would consider external quotes provided by Mr C, which is in line with what wed 
expect them to do. AXA provided Mr C with a copy of the scope of work which should be 
enough for him to present to prospective contractors to obtain like for like quotes 
So, I dont think theyve acted unreasonably here. 
Mr C has concerns about whether AXA will increase their offer if he provides quotes. But 
Mr C will need to obtain quotes and provide them to AXA in order for them to consider 
increasing their offer. If he provides the quotes and he isnt satisfied with their response he 
can consider bringing a separate complaint to our service. 
Rental agreement
My decision and reasoning on this point remains the same - I cant see the issue regarding 
loss of rent forms part of this complaint. 
Mr C says he has provided AXA with a copy of the agreement  which AXA previously said 
they will review as part of the claim. Again. If he isnt satisfied with their response; he can 
consider bringing a separate complaint to our service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman