DRN-3410224
The complaint
Mr L complains that Westerby Trustee Services Limited (Westerby) allowed his Self- 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to be invested in high risk investments. Mr L says 
Westerby shouldnt have allowed this to happen.
What happened
Westerbys been represented by two law firms for periods of our investigation of this 
complaint, and those law firms have made submissions on behalf of Westerby at various 
times. For simplicity, Ive referred to Westerby throughout, whether the submissions came 
directly from Westerby or were made on its behalf.
In August 2013 Westerby received Mr Ls application for a SIPP. On the application form, 
Mr Ls financial advisor was recorded as Mr F of Abana. 
Abana Unipessoal Lda (Abana) is a financial advisor firm based in Portugal. In December 
2013, Abana passported into the UK on an Insurance Mediation Directive (IMD) branch 
passport from 8 January 2014 to 7 January 2016 and an IMD services passport from 12 
March 2013 to 29 December 2015. This means that during those dates, Abana was an EEA 
authorised firm and permitted to carry out some regulated activities in the UK. 
As I understand it, Mr L was a member of two defined contribution occupational pension 
schemes with a former employer. Mr L transferred the cash value of the benefits from these 
schemes to a SIPP with Westerby. A little over £70,000 was transferred.
A SIPP application form was signed on 26 July 2013. Section 9 of the application says Do 
you have a financial advisor?. This was answered yes and the details of Mr F of Abana 
were added. It was also instructed that initial commission of 5% of the switched value should 
be paid to Mr F.
An application form for an investment platform called ePortfolio solutions, distributed in the 
UK by a business called Asset Management International (AMI), was also completed. This 
recorded the financial advisor as being Abana. Mr F, as a financial advisor with Abana, 
signed a declaration on the application on 26 July 2013. The application was signed by Mr L 
on the same date. The form was signed by Westerby, as trustees of Mr Ls SIPP, in August 
2013. Some of the money placed on the ePortfolio platform was invested in the Kijani 
Commodity Fund (the Kijani Fund), and some in the Swiss Asset Micro Assist Income Fund 
(SAMAIF), both of which were based in Mauritius. The remainder of the money was either 
held as cash or invested in other holdings.
On 11 November 2014, Westerby wrote to Mr L about his investments in the Kijani and 
SAMAIF funds. It explained that the funds would, following a Policy Statement from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in August 2014, be considered to be non-standard 
assets. It explained that the funds might be higher risk than Mr L originally considered. Its 
letter also said the Mauritian Financial Services Commission (MFSC) had issued 
enforcement orders against both the Kijani and the SAMAIF funds. 
It explained that such assets are often speculative and high risk, and that it only permitted 
such assets where full investment advice had been provided by a regulated financial advisor. 
It further explained that the investments might be higher risk than Mr L originally considered, 
and it was therefore imperative that Mr L discuss this with his financial advisor.
Westerby strongly urged Mr L to contact his regulated financial advisor, and it provided the 
details for Abana, and asked him to confirm whether he wanted to continue to hold the 
investments or for Westerby to attempt to sell them. Mr L signed a form on 14 November 
2014 to confirm that hed sought financial advice from Mr F of Abana and wished to retain 
his investments in the funds. 
In June 2015, Westerby wrote to Mr L providing an update on the Kijani Fund. The letter 
reminded Mr L that the Kijani and SAMAIF funds were now considered non-standard assets 
and explained:
The Kijani fund was being investigated by auditors. The fund managers had 
taken the decision to liquidate all assets and return client investments within 
30 to 60 days.
This information had been given to Westerby by AMI, but it hadnt been able 
to ascertain who made the statement originally.
Some investors had made redemption requests over 90 days ago but not 
received any money. 
The advisor dealing with Abana clients (by this point a Mrs B, not Mr F) had 
become directly authorised with the FCA under a new firm  Abana (FS) 
Ltd. 
Abana customers were in the process of being novated (moved over) to 
Abana (FS) Ltd.
Again it strongly urged Mr L to contact his regulated financial advisor, 
(referring, I assume, to Abana (FS) Ltd). It didnt however ask Mr L to confirm 
whether he wanted to continue to hold the investments on this occasion.
Westerby then wrote to Mr L again in July 2015. It explained that Abana customers werent, 
in fact, being novated to Abana (FS) Ltd. Westerby said it understood the reason for this was 
that Abana didnt consider Abana (FS) Ltd to be suitably independent to provide advice on 
Mr Ls SIPP. Westerby urged Mr L to have his SIPP reviewed immediately by an 
independent financial advisor with the necessary permissions. It also said if Mr L had any 
queries about its letter, he should address them to a Mr G of Abana and it provided Mr Gs 
contact details.
Westerby sent investors further updates over the following months. In a 26 June 2017 
email to Westerby, Mr L mentioned a letter hed received from Westerby in September 
2015 that said accounts were suspended. Ive not seen a copy of that letter, but I can see 
that Westerby responded to Mr Ls email the same day and said that:
The letter of 10th September 2015 also referred to the effective suspension of the 
ePortfolio Solutions platform, pending completion of a buy-out - this meant that it was 
not possible to submit trades through them, so even liquid funds could not be 
redeemed. The buy-out was completed shortly before we issued our letter of 23rd 
December, and at that point it became possible to submit redemption requests 
again.
On 23 December 2015, Westerby wrote to Mr L again. The letter said: 
we now have further information regarding the EPS platform, the Swiss Asset 
Micro Assist Income Fund (SAMAIF) and the Kijani FundWe have been in correspondence with the new managers of the platform and with 
Asset Management International to confirm details of your redemption (sale) request. 
We understand that trades in the underlying funds have been placed. 
The illiquid funds within your portfolio cannot be sold at present, and will remain 
within the SIPP EPS account for the time being.
Based on the information that we have been provided with, the current value of the 
liquid and illiquid elements of the investment are as follows:
Liquid Funds: £39,400.94 (SAMAIF expected to trade again in February)
Illiquid Funds: £39,527.38 (this is not a true value - please see below)
The letter also sets out the redemption timescale for what are described as underlying funds, 
including the TCA Global Credit Fund, the Lucent Strategic Land Fund and the Premier 
Socially Responsible Investment Fund.
 
The letter says the following about SAMAIF:
We have been informed that the suspension on this fund has been lifted, however it 
is not yet active, pending final authority from the Mauritius Financial Services 
Commission. 
EPS have included the value of this fund in the Liquid Funds referred to above. We 
have been advised that this is because the underlying assets and the value of the 
fund have been verified, and that the fund is expected to begin trading again in 
February 2016.
It appears that Mr L hadnt, in fact, made a redemption request, as Mr L contacted Westerby 
and requested redemption forms in March 2016. Westerby says that a redemption form was 
sent to Mr L on 17 March 2016, following a request to transfer his funds to a Hargreaves 
Lansdown SIPP. But that the hard copy of Mr L's signed form wasnt received by it. 
Westerbys said that wet signatures" were required by ePortfolio Solutions in order to 
redeem funds, so it wasnt able to instruct the redemption.
Mr Ls provided us with a copy of a Westerby Transfer Out Request Form he completed, this 
was signed by Mr L on 12 April 2016. Mr L selected All as the amount to transfer and 
asked for the monies to be transferred out, in cash, to Hargreaves Lansdown. Mr Ls also 
provided us with a copy of a Redemption form for ePortfolio Solutions that he completed. As 
far as I can make out, this also appears to have been signed on 12 April 2016.
On 14 April 2016, Mr L emailed Westerby and said:
Please [sic] attached transfer forms. Can you advise what is missing so I can action 
and get the document filled out for both me and [Mrs L].
On 15 April 2016, Westerby emailed Mr L and explained that holdings in the Kijani and 
SAMAIF fund were illiquid and that:
Due to the liquidity issues with the funds within the portfolio, the Managed Portfolio 
was split into two - Managed Portfolio S representing the Suspended funds (mostly 
Kijani) and Managed Portfolio L representing the Liquid funds (initially approximately 
20% TCA Global and 80% SAMAIF). ePortfolio Solutions have advised us that SAMAIF was initially included in the Liquid portfolio as it was expected to begin 
trading again imminently, however this has not yet happened.
Mr L emailed Westerby back later the same day and asked it, amongst other things, to 
review the transfer forms hed submitted to ensure theyd been completed correctly.
On 19 April 2016 Westerby emailed Mr L, it confirmed that:
The EPS Redemption is completed correctly and the transfer out form only the first 
page needs to be completed unless you are transferring to a QROPS. Please note 
this is for your pension scheme and not the specific funds in the EPS portfolio.
You will also be required to sign a BACS authority to transfer the funds when 
available to Hargreaves Lansdown
Ive also seen a copy of a 24 April 2016 update from SAMAIF to investors, this explains that 
the re-structured SAMAIF Fund has (since 22 April 2016) been licensed by the MFSC and 
suggests that work to begin trading is still ongoing. 
And in its 6 June 2016 submissions to us on a separate complaint featuring SAMAIF 
Westerby said: 
The SAMAIF is also currently not trading. It is our understanding that they are 
currently in communication with the Mauritian regulators in order to enable 
redemptions from the fund, however there are no definitive timescales as yet.
In its response to my provisional decision Westerbys sought to clarify that the quoted 
wording above, which is taken from a letter Westerby sent to us on 6 June 2016, was given 
by Abana.
The transfer to Hargreaves Lansdown wasnt effected. In June 2017 Mr L attempted to effect 
a transfer again, this time into a Prudential SIPP. In response to this request Westerby said 
that the SAMAIF investment was included within a Managed Portfolio (S) holding. And that 
the funds within that holding were suspended and couldnt be redeemed. Westerby 
explained that SAMAIF had said it was valuing underlying investments before trading could 
start again, but it hadnt provided a timescale for redemptions. And the only liquid monies 
that could be transferred to Mr Ls Prudential SIPP were in the SIPP bank account, totalling 
a little over £300.
Mr L asked to proceed with the transfer of the small liquid amount available, and on 26 June 
2017 Westerby sent him a Transfer Out request Form for this. Westerby also provided an 
update on SAMAIF. It explained that it had initially been advised that the fund would be 
trading again in early 2016, but that it had taken far longer than anticipated to verify assets.
Mr L first complained to Westerby in November 2015. He said that hed been advised by the 
FCA to complain to Westerby about the management and likely loss of his SIPP, which was 
invested in high risk and suspect investments. Mr L said hed been told that the pension fund 
would be used for bridging loans in the City of London. And that the SIPP was a fairly low 
risk fund with good returns and we therefore put our trust in the management of the SIPP 
with companies such as Westerby.
On 18 December 2015 Westerby issued its final response letter to Mr Ls complaint. In 
summary, it said:
Its not responsible for the advice given by Mr Ls advisor, Abana.Abana had appointed an independent compliance company to review the 
suitability of the advice it gave.
Westerby isnt responsible for the performance or management of the 
funds Mr L invested in. Or for any misappropriation or deception in those 
funds.
Westerby cannot know if a fund is suitable for a member; thats the 
responsibility of the advisor.
The funds could be held within a pension under HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) rules. There was nothing to indicate any issues with 
the funds when Mr L invested.
Mr L said it shouldve taken immediate action to safeguard his monies, but it 
did write to him on 11 November 2014 to tell him about the issues it had 
discovered.
It cannot take action on a clients investments without their instructions 
and Mr L instructed it to retain the investments.
Mr L then complained to this service saying that Westerby had done nothing to protect his 
pension fund and that it denies any responsibility.
Amongst other things, Westerby initially said to us that:
Mr L hadnt referred his complaint to this service within six months of its final 
response letter. The complaint was therefore made late and shouldnt be 
considered.
It carried out due diligence on Abana before accepting business that was 
introduced by it. Abana was authorised and regulated in Portugal by the Instituto 
de Seguros de Portugal (ISP).
It verified on the ISPs online register that Abana held passported 
authorisations into the UK for both life (insurance) and non-life activities. It 
also verified that Abana was authorised by the FCA, under reference 
597069.
It put in place a Terms of Business with Abana which required Abana to 
ensure that all necessary permissions were maintained.
SIPPs allow members to choose the underlying investments. Westerby (as 
Trustee) is responsible for carrying out due diligence on proposed investments 
to ensure that they can be held within a SIPP, but it cannot assess the suitability 
of an investment for a given member. 
Westerby didnt (and wasnt authorised to) provide financial advice. The 
responsibility for the advice and for the suitability of the transfer and underlying 
investments lies with the financial advisor. 
The advice given to Mr L by Abana has been deemed to be unsuitable by an 
independent compliance company, who were attempting to arrange 
compensation for the advisors clients.
The investment was placed into what were at the time regulated, listed 
investments in a regulated platform. Mr Ls financial advisor (not Westerby) 
instructed the investment into the individual funds within the platform.
When Westerby highlighted possible problems with the underlying investments, 
Mr L was asked if he wished to remain in those investments. He gave a clear 
instruction that he wished to retain the investments.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. They said that Westerbys final response 
letter didnt meet the requirements for such a letter, so the relevant time limit didnt start. And 
the complaint had, therefore, been made in time. Our investigator also thought that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the fact Abana 
was based abroad shouldve made it stand out when Westerby was carrying out its due 
diligence checks. He said the entry for Abana on the regulators register wouldve shown that 
Abana was only authorised to carry out insurance or reinsurance mediation in the UK. Our 
investigator said that personal pensions advice isnt an activity covered by the IMD and that 
Westerby, as a SIPP operator, ought to have had the knowledge and expertise to 
understand what permissions were required, and what services Abana was allowed to 
provide.
Our investigator concluded that as Westerby shouldnt have accepted Mr Ls SIPP 
application from Abana, it was fair and reasonable for Westerby to compensate Mr L for his 
financial loss.
Westerby didnt agree. In summary, its made a number of points including:
The complaint was made late and shouldnt be considered.
The investigator said the relevant letter didnt refer to this services website 
address in the body of the letter. But the rule doesnt require that, it only 
requires it to provide the website address and this was noted in the leaflet 
that was included with the letter. Terms may be incorporated into documents 
in this way.
Mr L had sufficient information to enable him to make his complaint in time, 
but he failed to do so.
Westerby complied with both the spirit and the letter of the rules.
Westerby doesnt accept that this service has jurisdiction to consider the 
complaint.
Westerby was only the administrator of the SIPP and didnt advise Mr L on 
investing in it. Westerbys role only began in August 2013 when it received the 
application following the advice Mr L had already received from Abana.
The FCA carried out a review of Westerbys business in October 2014. The 
FCA commended Westerby on its high levels of due diligence.
The investigators view that Westerby didnt act with due care and diligence 
flowed from his view that it shouldve known Abana wasnt authorised to 
advise on pensions. Westerby disagrees and says it did carry out proper 
due diligence.
Westerby carried out the searches that the investigator thought shouldve 
been made before accepting Mr Ls SIPP application. It searched the FCA 
Register in May 2013, and established that Abana was EEA authorised. It has 
a screenshot of the Register which doesnt include a Passports section or 
make any mention of restrictions on Abanas permissions. Acting reasonably, 
Westerby couldnt have found details of the passport permissions from the 
FCA Register at the time.
It provided a copy of a report by the Complaints Commissioner, which 
Westerby thought supported its view that information in the FCA 
Register was limited.
Knowing that Abanas country of origin was Portugal, Westerby also 
searched the website of the Portuguese regulator. Abana was authorised 
and regulated in Portugal by the ISP under reference 412378472. This 
showed that Abana was authorised to undertake both life and non-life 
business in the UK. There was nothing to put Westerby on notice that 
Abana wasnt authorised to advise UK investors.
It was entirely reasonable for Westerby to rely on the entries in the FCA 
Register and the Portuguese Register.
Abanas website said it was a specialist in compliance services to international financial advisors and also gave pension advice.
Westerby carried out investigations which complied with the regulators good 
practice requirements. These didnt show that Abana wasnt authorised to give 
advice on pensions in the UK. If they had, Westerby wouldnt have accepted the 
business. Its often declined to accept business from introducers where 
investigations have revealed they werent of an appropriate standard.
Having carried out proper due diligence in May 2013, Westerby then followed 
good practice in setting up a Terms of Business agreement with Abana. In this 
agreement, Abana warranted it was suitably authorised in relation to the sale of 
the SIPP. 
There was no failure by Westerby to act with due care and diligence. In the 
absence of sufficient information on the publicly available register, and as the 
only source of confirming whether the required permissions were held was by 
reference to the firm itself, it required that Abana provide a warranty (by way of 
the Intermediary Terms of Business) that it held (and would maintain) the 
necessary permissions. 
It considers that it acted in good faith by accepting business that was introduced 
by Abana.
Its contrary to European Union law to discriminate against a firm on the basis of 
the EEA country in which its been established. Checks on UK-based 
introducers are carried out with reference to the Financial Services Register, and 
checks on EEA passported introducers should be carried out in the same way.
Westerby also provided quarterly Product Sales Data reports to the FCA, 
including details of who it accepted business from. The FCA never expressed 
any concerns about it accepting business from Abana.
The investigator has referred to the regulators Principles 2, 3 and 6 in 
reaching his conclusion. But he hasnt clarified which of the Principles 
Westerby has breached. Also, the Principles must be read in conjunction 
with COBS 11.2.19(2). This states that a firm satisfies its obligations to a 
client if it executes an order following specific instructions from a client.
As the investigator acknowledged, Westerby didnt provide Mr L with any 
advice. When Mr L signed the SIPP application he agreed that he was 
solely responsible for all investment decisions.
Section 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) states that no 
person may carry on a regulated activity in the UK or purport to do so unless 
hes an authorised person. But even if a person acts in breach of permission, 
the transaction itself is proper and legal. This is emphasised in Section 20 of 
FSMA, which doesnt say that such a transaction is unenforceable.
Once the SIPP had been established, if Westerby had failed to follow Mr Ls 
instructions it wouldve been liable for damages under section 150 of FSMA. 
Also, under Westerbys trust deed it was required to act in accordance with 
Mr Ls instructions.
Mr Ls loss has been caused by the advice he received from Abana. The FCA 
investigated Abana and third-party compliance experts reviewed the advice 
Mr L was given. It was found the advice was unsuitable, and if Abana had 
provided redress as was proposed Mr L wouldve been compensated for his 
loss. Its neither fair nor reasonable to expect Westerby to compensate Mr L 
in these circumstances.
It cant understand why this service hasnt pursued Abana in respect of the 
redress its failed to pay Mr L.
Also, Mr L contributed to his own loss. Westerby wrote to him in 2014 when 
it became aware there were problems with some of the funds hed invested 
in. He couldve chosen to switch into different funds if hed wanted to, but 
didnt do this.While its not reasonable to expect Westerby to compensate Mr L at all, its 
even more unreasonable to compensate him for losses he couldve avoided.
Previous provisional decision by a different ombudsman on this complaint 
One of our ombudsmen previously issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 
2019. The ombudsman thought the complaint should be upheld. In brief, his provisional 
findings were:
Abana needed top-up permissions from the FCA in order to give advice on
personal pensions in the UK.
Westerby ought to have carried out sufficient due diligence on Abana before 
accepting business from it. This included checking initially, and on an ongoing 
basis, that introducers that were providing advice to clients had the appropriate 
permissions to be providing that advice.
When conducting its due diligence, Westerby ought to have concluded that 
Abana required top-up permissions to give advice on personal pensions in the 
UK. And Westerby ought to have conducted sufficient due diligence checks on 
Abana to verify its permissions and it didnt do this.
Westerby shouldnt have accepted Mr Ls application; it couldve put a stop to 
things if it had acted fairly and reasonably by rejecting the application. 
In the circumstances, it was fair to ask Westerby to compensate Mr L for the 
loss hes suffered.
In the interests of clarity on this point. While an initial provisional decision was issued on this 
complaint a couple of years ago, this complaint didnt then proceed further while we 
focussed our work on another complaint (the other complaint was the subject of the 
published decision I mention in the next section). The ombudsman who issued the initial 
provisional decision on this case didnt have capacity to deal with the case  and, as such, 
this case was passed to me to review.
Previous final decision on a complaint against Westerby
We issued a final decision on another complaint involving Westerbys acceptance of a SIPP 
application from Abana in February 2021 (the published decision). That final decision has 
been published on our website under DRN7770418. 
That decision relates to Abana and features the same key point  namely the permissions 
held and required by an incoming EEA firm dealing with personal pensions in the UK, and 
Westerbys knowledge of this. Westerbys made the same, or very similar, submissions on 
that case and some of its recent submissions on this case are made with reference to the 
published decision. 
After the published decision was issued, Westerby was asked to take it into consideration, 
as an important representative decision, in accordance with the relevant FCA DISP Rules 
and Guidance (particularly DISP 1.4.1, 1.4.2 and 1.3.2A), which should be taken into 
account when assessing other similar complaints. 
On this basis, Westerby was asked to review (amongst others) outstanding complaints 
involving Abana  including Mr Ls  and if it wasnt prepared to change its position after 
taking account of the detailed reasons set out in the published decision, to explain why that 
was the case. Westerby didnt change its position.
Other submissions from WesterbyIve considered all the submissions Westerby has made over the course of this complaint. 
This includes further submissions its made following on from the other ombudsmans 
previous provisional decision on this case and the published decision. Ive considered all 
these submissions carefully and, amongst other things, Westerbys said: 
A number of points raised havent been addressed by this service.
The published decision confirms we contacted the FCA about whether top-up 
permissions appear on the FCA Register and that the FCA confirmed that top up 
permissions do appear on the Register under the Permission page and that the 
FCA understands the same information was available on the Register in 2013.
Theres been no disclosure of: the details of the contact at the FCA with whom this 
service communicated; records of such communications; file notes or attendance 
notes; details of the FCA contacts role at the FCA; whether the FCA contact was 
dealing with the Register in 2013; and what the FCA contacts understanding of the 
Register in 2013 is based upon.
An understanding of what was on the Register in 2013 isnt proof of what was 
actually on the Register at the relevant time. This service should provide full 
disclosure of this information. Not to do so is procedurally unfair. 
It was reasonable for Westerby to assume from the Terms of Business agreement 
that Abana had the necessary permissions. It doesnt accept that it ought to have 
been reasonably aware of cause to have questioned the accuracy of the statement in 
the agreement. 
The published decision concedes that information which wasnt available on the 
Register wouldnt have been provided to Westerby by the FCA if it wasnt already on 
the Register. But the published decision also says that if Westerby had contacted the 
FCA directly the FCA wouldve been able to confirm Abanas permissions. No 
informations been provided about this and the FCAs position generally. 
Westerby made a Freedom of Information request to the FCA. And, in response, the 
FCA confirmed that in 2013, the Register wouldve indicated the broad permissions 
held under IMD by a firm which wouldve been either insurance mediation or 
reinsurance mediation and that there was no requirement under the IMD to display 
more detailed activities. Any further information not displayed on the Register 
wouldve been considered confidential information under Section 348 of FSMA which 
prohibits disclosure of this information. 
In the published decision the ombudsman sought to distinguish the complaint from 
the situation in the Adams court case on the basis that Abana was offering an 
advisory service. Its unclear how Abanas contractually defined role impacts on the 
scope of duty owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R. It was no part of Westerbys 
contractual obligations to investigate the permissions of third-party advisors. 
In the published decision the ombudsman failed to follow DISP 3.6.3G, which 
provides: Where a complainant makes a complaint against more than one 
respondent in respect of connected circumstances, the Ombudsman may determine 
that the respondents must contribute towards the overall award in the proportion that 
the Ombudsman considers appropriate.
The ombudsman failed to assess apportionment and causation. 
Despite a related complaint about the actions of Abana, in the published decision the 
ombudsman decided that Westerby should compensate the consumer for the full 
extent of his financial losses. 
Abana has ceased trading and closed, as such any indemnity from Abana and/or 
assignment of any action against it would now be worthless.
Complaints made against Abana to this service ought to have been decided first, or 
at least at the same time as complaints against Westerby. This service dealing with the complaint against Westerby first has led to the failure to address the issue of 
apportionment. 
This service has found against Abana in a number of complaints involving a different 
SIPP operator, and ordered Abana to pay redress yet we havent pursued, or invited 
the complainants to pursue, the SIPP operator.
Westerbys also made a number of other submissions to us previously, some in this 
complaint and others in separate complaints featuring Abana and the same key point  
namely the permissions held and required by an incoming EEA firm dealing with personal 
pensions in the UK, and Westerbys knowledge of this. These submissions include that:
GEN 4 Annex 1 states that an incoming (EEA) firm must make details of the extent of
its permissions clear on request. This shows that the FCA directs that the firm should
confirm its permissions. Its Terms of Business provided for such a request and
effectively formalised this disclosure through a signed agreement.
The FSMA acknowledges that theres a general principle that consumers should take 
responsibility for their decisions, a principle which the FCA should have regard to 
when considering consumer protection. This service is part of the consumer 
protection provisions under the FSMA, it follows that we must similarly have regard to 
this principle. Theres a clear intention in law that consumers have a level of 
responsibility. And this service has issued other decisions which take account of a 
consumers failure to take action to mitigate their losses.
Its due diligence wasnt simply a check of the Register. Its Chairman and Compliance 
Oversight was present at several face to face meetings with Abana's advisor and 
Compliance Director. And he was thorough in his "testing" of their processes and due 
diligence. 
This culminated in Westerby establishing a legal document - the Terms of Business - 
in which Abana warranted that it had the required permissions to introduce the SIPP. 
Abana therefore effectively "defrauded" it.
Its able to accept applications from non-regulated introducers. This isnt something 
its done, but its acceptable to the FCA.
It doesnt hold a copy of the "Permission" page for Abana. 
The "Basic Details" page of Abana's Register entry included a field labelled 
"Undertakes Insurance Mediation", but the field was left blank; for UK firms it was 
always completed. 
Westerbys argument isnt that there werent other sections of the Register, its that 
Abanas permissions couldnt be determined from the Register due to the limited 
information available. In other words, Westerby doesnt accept that, at the relevant 
time (when the online Register was viewed in 2013), that there was information 
regarding permissions available or accessible by an online user.
There were opportunities to mitigate losses. Westerby wrote to Mr L in November 
2014. That letter drew to Mr Ls attention the regulatory enforcement actions against 
the funds, and it gave him the opportunity to redeem his funds. Westerby also wrote 
to Mr L again in December 2015, to inform him that there was an opportunity to 
redeem approximately half of his funds. Mr L didnt then contact Westerby until 
March 2016, when a request was received to transfer his funds to Hargreaves 
Lansdown. But he didnt return a hard copy of a redemption form that was sent to him 
at that time.
My provisional decision I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and I concluded Mr Ls complaint should be 
upheld. In brief, I concluded that:
The complaint was one we could consider.
Westerby ought to have identified that Abana needed top-up permissions to advise 
on and make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK, and taken all the steps 
available to it to independently verify that Abana had the required permissions.
If Westerby had taken these steps, it wouldve established Abana didnt have the 
permissions it required to give advice or make arrangements for personal pensions in 
the UK, or that it was unable to confirm whether Abana had the required permissions.
In either event, it wasnt in accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good 
industry practice for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Abana.
Additionally, Westerby ought to have considered the anomalous features of the 
business. These were further factors relevant to Westerbys acceptance of Mr Ls 
application which, at the very least, emphasised the need for adequate due diligence 
to be carried out on Abana to independently ensure it had the correct permissions to 
be giving advice on personal pensions in the UK.
Its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude that none of the 
points Westerby has raised are factors which mitigate its decision to accept Mr Ls 
application from Abana.
Its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to hold Westerby 
accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant regulatory obligations and 
to treat Mr L fairly. And its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby to 
compensate Mr L to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to 
Westerbys failings.
Westerby didnt accept my provisional decision and provided a detailed response. Ive 
carefully considered that response in full. Amongst other things, Westerby said that:
A number of the submissions it had previously made were accurately summarised in 
the provisional decision but werent then addressed properly.
Following the published decision, it hadnt declined to change its position, it 
performed a review and there were no compelling reasons and/or evidence for it to 
change its position that the complaint ought not to be upheld.
It had previously requested disclosure of: the details of the contact at the FCA with 
whom this service communicated; records of such communications; file notes or 
attendance notes; details of the FCA contacts role at the FCA; whether the FCA 
contact was dealing with the Register in 2013; and what the FCA contacts 
understanding of the Register in 2013 is based upon. Its only been provided with the 
FCAs response thats referred to in the published decision and its not received the 
further disclosure its requested. It doesnt understand why I consider that it could or 
should provide more information to show what was on the Register in 2013. And its 
asked me to clarify my position on this.
It took all reasonable steps available to it to verify Abanas permissions.
It disagrees that Abana not holding the relevant permissions wouldve been a matter 
of public record. The FCA could only confirm what was on the Register, not what was 
missing from it. And the FCA cannot provide any more information than that which is 
provided on the Register.
Abana had confirmed orally and in writing that it had the necessary permissions and 
it was reasonable for Westerby to rely on this.
It disagrees that the Written Agreement was vague and generic in nature. The term 
permissions encompasses top-up permissions. And its unrealistic to consider that 
any change of wording would have caused Abana to not provide the undertaking. During the changeover from the FSA to the FCA, the FSA allowed a further twelve 
months for firms to alter their paperwork, including agreements, letterheads and 
business cards. The date of the Written Agreement falls under this time period. 
It was no part of its contractual obligations to Mr L to investigate the permissions of 
third-party advisors and anomalous features. 
It administers esoteric high risk non-standard assets for members on a regular basis 
and theres nothing unusual or extraordinary about its administration of such 
investments. 
The provisional decision downplays the extent and thoroughness of the due diligence 
it performed. It met with Abanas representatives and obtained information from 
them. Abanas representatives had good technical knowledge and confirmed it had 
the correct permissions.
Before accepting applications, it checked the FCA register and the permissions page, 
the latter was blank.
It checked the Portuguese register which had to be translated into English. The 
Portuguese register explained that Abana was authorised to advise on life and 
non-life, the latter Westerby understood meant investments and pensions. 
Much later, independent consultants appointed by the FCA also spoke to the 
Portuguese Regulator and were told that Abana was authorised to advise on pension 
products.
In Adams v Options it was said (at paragraph 163) that:
The claimant also relies on reviews, guidance and alerts which were 
published by the FCA in 2013, 2014, 2016 and 2017, after the events relevant 
to his claim in this case, and it seems to me that they can therefore have no 
direct bearing on the matters which I have to decide.
The October 2013 and 2014 publications were published after Mr Ls SIPP was set 
up and should not be applied retrospectively. Notwithstanding this, Westerby acted in 
accordance with the regulatory publications. 
An attempts been made in the provisional decision to distinguish Mr Ls complaint 
from the decision in Adams but Ive made a material error of law in doing so. 
Westerbys said that:
In Adams HHJ Dight stated that the scope of the best interests duty at 
COBS 2.1.1R was to be determined by the relevant factual context and, in 
particular, the parties defined roles and functions in the transaction as set 
out by the terms of their agreement. He therefore concluded that the duty 
argued for on Mr Adams behalf did not arise because the defendants role 
was limited to execution-only. 
In the provisional decision Id sought to distinguish Mr Ls complaint from the situation 
in Adams on the basis that Abana was offering an advisory service. Its unclear how 
Abanas contractually defined role impacts upon the scope of duty owed by Westerby 
under COBS 2.1.1R. It was no part of Westerbys contractual obligations to Mr L to 
investigate the permissions of third-party advisors. And its wrong in principle to 
conclude that the contractual responsibilities of an unrelated third-party could 
somehow be used to define those owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R. 
The Options appeal decision commented that s27 of the FSMA is designed to shift 
the risks of accepting business from unauthorised parties onto providers. However, 
s20 FSMA does the exact opposite  it explicitly shields authorised parties from the 
risks of accepting business from authorised parties acting outside their permissions 
(such as Abana). And FCA guidance Id referred to in my provisional decision 
appears to directly contradict the intention of legislation.There should be some, if not a full, apportionment of liability made against Abana. 
And Ive failed to assess apportionment. 
In a previous decision, a different ombudsman did deal with the apportionment issue 
where the complaint was against an EEA firm that had acted outside its permissions. 
The decision made an apportionment between the SIPP provider and the advisor on 
a 50/50 basis. 
Abanas ceased to trade and any indemnity from Abana and/or assignment of any 
action against it from Mr L is effectively worthless. 
Appropriate liability should be attributed to Abana for its involvement in the losses 
that complainants have suffered.
Had it uncovered that Abana didnt have the relevant permissions, it wouldve 
declined all business from Abana from the outset, and would never have received 
Mr Ls application or have been in a position to highlight Abanas lack of permissions.
It wouldnt have been at liberty to contact investors directly to tell them why their 
application was refused.
If it had rejected Mr Ls application, Abana wouldve re-applied on behalf of Mr L to 
another SIPP provider that Abana was using and that SIPP provider wouldve 
accepted the application.
Mr L wouldve continued to accept or act on pensions advice from Abana. In or 
around September 2015, Mr L chose to seek independent advice elsewhere from KB 
Wealth Management Limited (KB Wealth), a firm owned and operated by one of 
Abanas advisors.
Mr Ls company had dealings with accountants run by individuals connected to 
Abana. 
When it wrote to Mr L in November 2014, it anticipates that Mr L wouldve discussed 
the matter with the accountants and Mr F, and that Westerbys concerns about the 
permissions of the firm were dismissed. 
The action it took was in line with the FCA Principles and it was acting in the best 
interests of investors by keeping an eye on the investments and flagging issues with 
them. Its actions were correct and resulted in some clients being able to make a 
redemption. 
Following its November 2014 letter, any investor wouldve sought independent 
financial advice or made some reasonable lines of enquiries. Mr Ls a company 
director and it wouldve been reasonable for someone with his business background 
to have made some enquiries. 
It doesnt agree that it was reasonable for Mr L to conclude following its June 2015 
letter that he didnt need to do anything. Further, in July 2015, it urged Mr L to have 
his SIPP reviewed by an independent financial advisor with the necessary 
permissions. Having received such correspondence, it wouldve been reasonable for 
any investor to have sought independent financial advice. 
In September 2015, Westerby received a Letter of Authority confirming that Mr L had 
appointed KB Wealth as his financial advisor. KB Wealth was owned and operated 
by one of the advisors of Abana. KB Wealth was originally called Abana (FS) Ltd, 
which was the same firm that Abanas clients were to be novated to until it was 
deemed not to be suitably independent (which Westerby had informed investors of in 
July 2015). So, Mr L chose to use a firm who he ought to have known was connected 
to Abana for independent advice. 
Westerby sent a letter to Mr L in December 2015, which explained that the 
suspension of the SAMAIF Fund might lift. By this stage any investor wouldve made 
some enquiries into their funds, but Mr L didnt. There was no attempt to try to 
mitigate his losses promptly. And when Mr L contacted it in February 2016, it was to 
seek transfer forms and not redemption forms. By concluding that it wasnt reasonable for Mr L to take some action after its letters, 
Im effectively deciding that Westerby was always liable for any subsequent losses 
irrespective of the duty on Mr L to mitigate his losses. 
The provisional decision says that any efforts to redeem the investments wouldnt 
have been successful, but it disagrees. In the complaint that was the subject of the 
published decision, the consumer was able to redeem their funds in May 2016. And 
its likely that Mr L couldve mitigated his losses with a timely redemption request. 
Mr L agreed with my provisional decision and didnt have any further comments to add.
What Ive decided  and why
jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments in order to decide whether we may consider 
Mr Ls complaint.
The rules I must follow in determining whether we can consider this complaint are set out in 
the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, published as part of the FCAs Handbook.
Has the complaint been brought in time?
When Mr L referred his complaint to the ombudsman service in 2017 the relevant jurisdiction 
rule (DISP 2.8.2R) provided:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 
2.8.2 R  was as a result of exceptional circumstances; or
(5) the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the complaint 
where the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 Rhave expired
The term final response has the meaning given in DISP 1.6.2R. And in December 2015 
DISP 1.6.2R said:
The respondent must, by the end of eight weeks after its receipt of the 
complaint, send the complainant:
(1) a 'final response', being a written response from the respondent which:
(a) accepts the complaint and, where appropriate, offers redress or 
remedial action; or
(b) offers redress or remedial action without accepting the complaint; or
(c) rejects the complaint and gives reasons for doing so; 
and which:(d) encloses a copy of the Financial Ombudsman Service's standard 
explanatory leaflet;
(da) provides the website address of the Financial Ombudsman Service;
(e) informs the complainant that if he remains dissatisfied with the 
respondent's response, he may now refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service; and
(f) indicates whether or not the respondent consents to waive the relevant 
time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R (Was the complaint referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service in time?) by including the appropriate wording 
set out in DISP 1Annex 3R; 
Westerby accepts that its letter of 18 December 2015 didnt, in the body of the letter, give the 
relevant website address. Westerby acknowledges its required to provide the website 
address, but says its not required to do so expressly within the body of the letter. And it says 
the website address was provided to Mr L, as it was in the leaflet Westerby provided.
The requirement to include our website address hasnt always been part of the definition of a 
final response letter. It was added on 9 July 2015. This suggests that if sending the leaflet 
was sufficient to meet the requirement to include our website address, then DISP 
1.6.2R(1)(da) wouldnt have been added as a requirement for a final response as a separate 
criterion - particularly as including the leaflet (which includes the website address) had been 
a part of the definition for many years before the rule was added to in July 2015.
The above is consistent with the FCAs guidance at DISP 1.6.6A, which was also updated on 
9 July 2015:
The information regarding the Financial Ombudsman Service required to be 
provided in responses sent under the complaints time limit rules (DISP 1.6.2 R and 
DISP 1.6.4 R) should be set out clearly, comprehensibly, in an easily accessible way 
and prominently within the text of those responses. 
Further the letter of 18 December 2015 doesnt comply with the requirement at 1.6.2R(1)(f) 
above, as it doesnt indicate whether or not Westerby consents to waive the relevant time 
limits. This shouldve been dealt with in the body of the letter in the way indicated by the 
Appendix referred to in the rule.
Accordingly, my finding is that the letter of 18 December 2015 didnt meet all the 
requirements for a final response letter. Therefore, the six-month time limit didnt start to run 
and hadnt expired before the complaint was referred to this service in 2017. So, Im satisfied 
that this complaint was brought in time and that its one we can consider.
merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account of 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. 
Mr L initially complained to Westerby that it shouldnt have allowed high risk and suspect 
investments to be made in his SIPP. Its clear Mr L had become concerned because both the 
Kijani and SAMAIF funds were experiencing difficulties. Mr L said that Westerby had a duty 
of care to ensure his monies were protected, and that they couldnt be taken by individuals or companies where little hope would exist for them once invested. Mr L said in his complaint 
form that he trusted Westerby to manage his SIPP and that it did nothing to protect his 
monies.
 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, its appropriate to take an 
inquisitorial approach. And, ultimately, what Ill be looking at here is whether Westerby took 
reasonable care, acted with due diligence and treated Mr L fairly, in accordance with his best 
interests. And what I thinks fair and reasonable in light of that. And I think the key issue in 
Mr Ls complaint is whether it was fair and reasonable for Westerby to have accepted Mr Ls 
SIPP application in the first place. So, I need to consider whether Westerby carried out 
appropriate due diligence checks on Abana before deciding to accept Mr Ls SIPP 
application from it.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position 
and Im grateful to them for doing so. Ive considered these submissions in their entirety. 
However, I trust that they wont take the fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to 
be the central issues as a discourtesy. To be clear, the purpose of this decision isnt to 
comment on every individual point or question the parties have made, rather its to set out 
my findings and reasons for reaching them. 
Relevant considerations
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence, including the submissions in response to 
my provisional decision, Im still of the view that the relevant considerations in this case are 
those that Id previously set out in my provisional decision. As such, and while taking into 
account all of the submissions that have been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said 
about this point in my provisional decision.
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 provide: 
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman whod upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it wouldve refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found Berkeley 
Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and hadnt treated its client 
fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL): 
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which Ive 
described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time 
as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments when making this decision on Mr Ls case. I note that the Principles for Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of the judgments say anything 
about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be 
clear, I dont say this means Adams isnt a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, Ive 
taken account of both judgments when making this decision on Mr Ls case. 
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim, on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically 
different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams 
appeal didnt so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had 
dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction. 
In its response to my provisional decision Westerby said that Id sought to distinguish Mr Ls 
complaint from the situation in Adams on the basis that Abana was offering an advisory 
service. That its unclear how Abanas contractually defined role impacted upon the scope of 
duty owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R. And that in attempting to distinguish Mr Ls 
complaint from the decision in Adams Id made a material error of law. 
Ive carefully considered what Westerby has said about this, but Im still of the view that 
there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams (summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment) and the issues in 
Mr Ls complaint. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he wasnt asked to consider the question 
of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods investment into its 
SIPP. 
I explained in my provisional decision that the facts of the case were also different. And that I 
had to construe the duties Westerby owed to Mr L under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the specific 
facts of Mr Ls case. And thats still my view.
In my provisional decision, I explained that in the published decision it was noted that in 
Adams v Options SIPP HHJ Dight accepted that the transaction with Options SIPP 
proceeded on an execution only basis, i.e. without any advice from the business introducing 
the SIPP application. And that the transaction between Mr L and Westerby proceeded on the 
footing that Mr L was being advised by an authorised advisor. I made that point in the provisional decision, and Ive repeated it here, simply to highlight that there are factual 
differences between Adams v Options SIPP and Mr Ls case.  
So, Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R - alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Mr Ls case, including Westerbys role in the transaction.  
However, I think its important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise that I dont say that Westerby was under any obligation to advise 
Mr L on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an application 
because it came about as a result of advice given by a firm which didnt have the required 
permissions to be giving that advice, and had been introduced by that same firm, isnt the 
same thing as advising Mr L on the merits of investing and/or transferring to the SIPP. 
So, Im still satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to be 
considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual 
context of Mr Ls case.   
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the Financial Services Authority (FSA)) issued a number of 
publications which reminded SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they 
might achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement: 
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. 
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.

We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to 
clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their customers 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for 
this.
The later publications 
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA stated: 
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in 
April 2007.All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a client 
for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators 
responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business warnings. 
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with. 
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from 
the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns. 
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the 
scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, 
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been approved 
by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently, and
ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc.)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, Ive 
considered them in their entirety.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter arent formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their importance should be 
underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are 
an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure its treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the 
publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice, and 
Im therefore satisfied its appropriate to take them into account.
Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman. 
I also remain satisfied that Westerby, at the time of the events under consideration here, 
thought the 2009 Thematic Review Report was relevant, and thought that it set out examples 
of good industry practice. Westerby did carry out due diligence on Abana. So, it clearly 
thought it was good practice to do so, at the very least. 
Ive carefully considered what Westerbys said about publications that were published after 
Mr Ls SIPP was set up, which would include the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator 
guidance and the July 2014 Dear CEO letter. But I remain of the view stated in my 
provisional decisional that, like the ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact the 
publications, (other than the 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports), post-date the events 
that took place in relation to Mr Ls complaint, mean that the examples of good practice they 
provide werent good practice at the time of the relevant events. Although the later 
publications were published after the events subject to this complaint, the Principles that 
underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance with the 
Principles. 
Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, its clear the standards 
themselves hadnt changed.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, Ill only consider 
Westerbys actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and 
guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They didnt say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO 
letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances. In response to my provisional decision Westerbys stated that the Options appeal decision 
commented that s27 of the FSMA is designed to shift the risks of accepting business from 
unauthorised parties onto providers. But s20 of the FSMA does the exact opposite  it 
explicitly shields authorised parties from the risks of accepting business from authorised 
parties acting outside their permissions (such as Abana). And Westerbys highlighted that 
FCA guidance Id referred to in my provisional decision, and which Ive repeated above, 
appears to directly contradict the intention of legislation. 
Ive carefully considered Westerbys submissions, and the contents of s20 and s27 of the 
FSMA. But, to be clear, with regards to the contents of s20, its not my role to determine 
whether an offence has occurred or if theres something that gives rise to a right to take legal 
action and Im not making a finding here on whether Mr Ls application is void or 
unenforceable. Rather, Im making a decision on whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case  and for all the reasons Ive set out above Im satisfied that the 
Principles and the publications listed above are relevant considerations to that decision.
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr Ls SIPP 
application from Abana, Westerby complied with its regulatory obligations: to act with due 
skill, care and diligence; to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively; to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly; and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the 
Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what Westerby 
couldve done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
 
In this case, the business Westerby was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The 
regulators reports and guidance provided some examples of good practice observed by the 
FSA and FCA during its work with SIPP operators. This included confirming, both initially 
and on an ongoing basis, that introducers that advise clients have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice theyre providing. 
So taking account of the factual context of this case, it remains my view that in order for 
Westerby to meet its regulatory obligations, (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), it 
shouldve undertaken sufficient due diligence checks to ensure Abana had the required 
permissions to give advice on and make arrangements in relation to personal pensions in 
the UK before accepting Mr Ls business from it. 
Westerby says it carried out due diligence on Abana before accepting business from it. And 
from what Ive seen I accept that it undertook some checks. However, the question I need to 
consider is whether Westerby ought to have, in compliance with its regulatory obligations, 
identified that Abana didnt in fact have the top-up permissions from the FCA it required to 
be giving advice on, and arranging, personal pensions in the UK. And whether Westerby 
should, therefore, not have accepted Mr Ls application from it. 
The regulatory position 
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
Abana is based in Portugal and is authorised and regulated in Portugal by Autoridade de 
Supervisao de Seguros e Fundos de Pensoes (ASF). As Ive mentioned above, Abana held an IMD branch passport from 8 January 2014 to 7 January 2016 and an IMD services 
passport from 12 March 2013 to 29 December 2015. 
Under Article 2 of the Insurance Mediation Directive 2002/92/EC, insurance mediation and 
reinsurance mediation are defined as: 
3. insurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying 
out other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of insurance, or of 
concluding such contracts, or of assisting in the administration and performance of 
such contracts, in particular in the event of a claim.

4. reinsurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying 
out other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of reinsurance, or of 
concluding such contracts, or of assisting in the administration and performance of 
such contracts, in particular in the event of a claim. 
In the FSAs consultation paper 201, entitled Implementation of the Insurance Mediation 
Directive for Long-term insurance business its stated (on page 7): 
We are implementing the IMD for general insurance and pure protection business 
from January 2005 (when they will require authorisation).
Unlike general insurance and pure protection policies, the sale of life and pensions 
policies is already regulated. Life and pensions intermediaries must be authorised by 
us and are subject to our regulation.
Chapter 12 of the FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) offers guidance to persons, 
such as Westerby, running personal pension schemes. The guidance in place at the time the 
application was made for Mr Ls SIPP confirms that a personal pension scheme, for the 
purpose of regulated activities (PERG 12.2): 
is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (the Regulated Activities Order) as any scheme other than an occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) or a stakeholder pension scheme that is to provide benefits for people:
on retirement; or
on reaching a particular age; or
on termination of service in an employment.
It goes on to say:
This will include self-invested personal pension schemes ('SIPPs') as well as 
personal pensions provided to consumers by product companies such as insurers, 
unit trust managers, contractual scheme managers or deposit takers (including free-
standing voluntary contribution schemes).
So, under the Regulated Activities Order, a SIPP is a personal pension scheme. Article 82 of 
the Regulated Activities Order (Part III Specified Investments) provides that rights under a 
personal pension scheme are a specified investment.
 
Westerby itself had regulatory permission to establish and operate personal pension 
schemes  a regulated activity under Article 52 of the Regulated Activities Order. It didnt 
have permission to carry on the separate activity under Article 10 of effecting and carrying 
out insurance.At the time of Mr Ls application, SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook set out Guidance on 
passporting issues and SUP App 3.9.7G provided the following table of permissible 
activities under Article 2(3) of the Insurance Mediation Directive in terms of the attendant 
Regulated Activities Order Article number: 
Table 2B: Insurance Mediation Directive 2 Activities 
2 Part II RAO 
Activities Part III RAO 
Investments 
1.Introducing, proposing or carrying out other work 
preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of 
insurance.Articles 25, 53 
and 64Articles 75, 89 
(see Note 1)
2.Concluding contracts of insurance Articles 21, 25, 
53 and 64Articles 75, 89
3.Assisting in the administration and performance of 
contracts of insurance, in particular in the event of a 
claim.Articles 39A, 64 Articles 75, 89
I note this shows Article 82 investments arent covered by the Insurance Mediation Directive. 
The guidance in SUP 13A.1.2G of the FCA Handbook at the time of Mr Ls application for 
the SIPP explains that an EEA firm wishing to carry on activities in the UK which are outside 
the scope of its EEA rights (i.e. its passporting rights) will require a top-up permission 
under Part 4A of the Act (the Act being FSMA). In other words, it needs top-up permissions 
from the FCA to carry on regulated activities which arent covered by its IMD passport rights.
The relevant rules regarding top-up permissions could be found in the FCA Handbook at 
SUP 13A.7. SUP 13A.7.1G states (as at July 2013): 
If a person established in the EEA: 
(1) does not have an EEA right; 
(2) does not have permission as a UCITS qualifier; and
(3) does not have, or does not wish to exercise, a Treaty right (see SUP 13A.3.4 G 
to SUP 13A.3.11 G);
to carry on a particular regulated activity in the United Kingdom, it must seek Part 
4A permission from the appropriate UK regulator to do so (see the appropriate 
UK regulator's website: http://www.fca.org.uk/firms/about-authorisation/getting-
authorised for the FCA and www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/authorisations 
/newfirm/default.aspx for the PRA). This might arise if the activity itself is outside 
the scope of the Single Market Directives, or where the activity is included in the 
scope of a Single Market Directive but is not covered by the EEA firm's Home 
State authorisation. If a person also qualifies for authorisation under Schedules 3, 
4 or 5 to the Act as a result of its other activities, the Part 4A permission is 
referred to in the Handbook as a top-up permission.
In the glossary section of the FCA Handbook EEA authorisation is defined (as at July 2013) 
as: 
(in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 3 to the Act (EEA Passport Rights)):(a) in relation to an IMD insurance intermediary or an IMD reinsurance 
intermediary, registration with its Home State regulator under article 3 of the 
Insurance Mediation Directive;
(b) in relation to any other EEA firm, authorisation granted to an EEA firm by 
its Home State regulator for the purpose of the relevant Single Market 
Directive or the auction regulation
The guidance at SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook (which Ive set out above) was readily 
available in 2013 and clearly illustrated that EEA-authorised firms may only carry out 
specified regulated activities in the UK if they have the relevant EEA passport rights. 
In this case the regulated activities in question didnt fall under IMD passporting, and they 
required FCA permission for Abana to conduct them in the UK. Westerby, acting in 
accordance with its own regulatory obligations, shouldve ensured it understood the relevant 
rules, guidance and legislation Ive referred to above, (or sought advice on this, to ensure it 
could gain the proper understanding), when considering whether to accept business from 
Abana, which was an EEA firm passporting into the UK. It should therefore have known - or 
have checked and discovered - that a business based in Portugal that was EEA-authorised 
needed to have top-up permissions to give advice and make arrangements in relation to 
personal pensions in the UK. And that top-up permissions had to be granted by the the UK 
regulator, the FCA.
In my view, its fair and reasonable to conclude that in the circumstances of this case 
Westerby ought to have understood that Abana required the relevant top-up permissions 
from the FCA in order to carry on the regulated activities it was undertaking. 
Westerbys checks on Abanas permissions
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
Westerby says it took appropriate steps to conduct due diligence on Abana and it couldnt, 
and shouldnt, reasonably have concluded that Abana didnt have the required top-up 
permissions. Ive carefully considered all of Westerbys submissions on this point. 
The Register
Im satisfied that, in order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have 
independently checked and verified Abanas permissions before accepting business from it. I 
think its fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have checked the Register entry for 
Abana in the circumstances. And I think its fair and reasonable to say that the checks 
Westerby ought to have conducted on Abanas Register entry shouldve included a review of 
all the relevant information available.  
Westerby says it checked Abanas entry on the Register. So, I think its clear that Westerby 
thought it should check the Register, rather than simply asking Abana what permissions it 
had and then merely relying on what Abana said. 
Westerby says that, at the time of Mr Ls SIPP application, there wasnt information available 
or accessible on the FCA Register that wouldve shown Abanas permissions position. It 
says that screenshots show that the Register at that time didnt include a Passports 
section, or make any mention of any restrictions on Abana's permissions. Westerby also believes that the FCA wouldve been unable to confirm Abanas permissions if asked, as this 
information wasnt available on the then Register. 
Ive carefully considered everything Westerbys said about the format of the Register in or 
around 2013, when Mr Ls application was submitted by Abana. 
In a letter dated 2 March 2018 Westerby said:
WTS [Westerby] searched Abana on the Financial Services register on 10 May 2013 
and established that they were EEA authorised. Please refer to the enclosed copy 
screenshot of the search dated 10 May 2013. This shows that the search results did 
not include a Passports section, or any mention in the notices or other 
information sections of any restrictions on Abanas permission, which would be 
usual if there had been any restriction. Whilst WTS accept that a present day search 
includes a Passports section, they dispute that a search in May 2013 did, as 
illustrated by the enclosed screenshot. Acting reasonably, WTS could not have found 
details of the passport permission from a search of the Financial Services register at 
that time. 
The following print out from the Register was attached to that letter: 
The third-party report on the Register, provided by Westerby during the investigation of the 
complaint which was the subject of the published decision, is helpful to discussions about 
the format of the Register at the time of Mr Ls SIPP application. The report included the 
following screenshot of the archived Register for Abana (dated 24 July 2013):
Each of the red titles at the top of the entry for Abana (Regulators, Basic details, Contact for 
complaints, Disciplinary History and so on) is a hyperlink to another page of Abanas entry 
on the Register. So, this screenshot shows that Abanas 2013 entry on the Register wouldve 
included, amongst other things, both Permission and Passports pages. And its 
reasonable to conclude from the above screenshot that the format of the Register, in or 
around the time Mr Ls SIPP application was submitted to Westerby in 2013, included pages 
which provided information in relation to both a firms passport details and in relation to a 
firms permissions. 
Elsewhere in the third-party report it says theres no evidence that in 2013 the Register 
contained any Permissions data relating to Abana that couldve been searched by 
Westerby. The report refers to paragraph 24 as forming the basis for this conclusion. 
Ive carefully reviewed the third-party report. Paragraph 24 only confirms that if the hyperlink 
to the Permission page is clicked, theres no archive of that specific Permission page. In 
my view, the fact this hyperlink yielded nothing when clicked just speaks to the limitations of 
the internet archive in question. So, I dont think paragraph 24 shows that no Permission 
page for Abana existed in 2013. However, I do think that evidence provided elsewhere in the 
third-party report strongly suggests a Permission page did exist for Abana.   
Only the Regulators page has been archived for Abanas entry on the Register from 2013. 
But the third-party report provides examples of several Permission pages for other firms 
which were archived, dating from around the time of Mr Ls SIPP application or earlier. The 
below example, dating from 2012, and relating to a Cypriot firm which, like Abana, was an 
incoming EEA firm, is particularly helpful:
This shows that the Permission page for this incoming EEA firm did exist in 2012, and that 
it showed No matches found. This is strong evidence that the format of the Register for 
EEA firms did include a page with information on a firms permissions, even if all it recorded 
was that no matches are found, (i.e. it had no permissions from the FCA).  
The third-party report also includes a screenshot of a 2013 Permission page for a UK firm 
which ceased to be authorised in 2008 (which also shows No matches found), and a page 
for a UK firm which was authorised and held FCA permissions at the relevant time, which 
shows the firms permissions set out in detail. 
Im satisfied that all of this information taken together demonstrates that, when Mr Ls 
application was received by Westerby, the format of the FCA Register contained a page 
labelled Permission where a firms permissions would be set out on the Register. And, 
where a firm didnt have any FCA permissions at the time of the search, the Permission 
page on their Register entry would simply state No matches found (as there were no 
permissions to display).  
This is consistent with the information we received from the FCA when we asked it to 
confirm whether top-up permissions appear on the Register, and whether this has changed 
since 2013. In response, the FCA confirmed that top-up permissions do appear on the 
Register under the Permission page, and that it understands the same information was 
available on the Register in 2013. In other words, the FCAs response to our question 
accords with what Ive already said Im satisfied has been demonstrated by the evidence 
thats available in this case. 
Westerbys said, amongst other things, more information should be provided about the 
details of the contact with the FCA. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, 
Westerbys already been provided with the FCAs response to our question. So, Im satisfied 
that Westerbys had the opportunity to consider the response, and that its also had the 
opportunity to make further submissions to us. So, I remain satisfied that I can fairly 
determine this complaint now and that Westerby doesnt need to be provided with further 
information on this point.
Further, and as Ive already mentioned above, the FCAs response to our question accords 
with what Ive already said Im satisfied has been demonstrated by the evidence thats 
available in this case. So, my decision on this complaint would still be the same with or 
without the FCAs response to our question. 
Accordingly, I remain satisfied that:
In order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have independently 
checked and verified Abanas permissions before accepting business from it. And its 
fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have checked the totality of Abanas 
Register entry in the circumstances. 
The format of the Register in 2013 included a Permission page. And it follows that 
the entry for Abana on the Register, at the time of Mr Ls application, wouldve 
included a Permission page which Westerby ought to have checked. 
In previous submissions to us, Westerby seemed to suggest that the Basic details page 
was the totality of the Register entry available for Abana at the relevant time. But, as I 
understand it, Westerby now seems to accept that the Register did include other sections. 
But it says that on checking the Register at the relevant time, these sections didnt contain 
any further information about Abanas passports or permissions.
Westerbys been unable to produce evidence to demonstrate that it did in fact check the 
Permission page for Abana before it accepted Mr Ls SIPP application from it. But even if it 
did check the Permission page for Abana at the relevant time, Westerby appears to have 
failed to have kept a record of this check and, unfortunately, the 2013 record of the 
Permission page for Abana hasnt been archived. So, weve no evidence of what specific 
information was available on the Permission page for Abana at the relevant time. 
However, in light of the evidence Ive set out above, Im satisfied that there wouldve been a 
Permission page available on Abanas Register entry. And, if this page had erroneously 
failed to contain any information on whether or not Abana held the relevant permissions, (for 
example, if the Permission page had erroneously been left blank), Westerby ought to have 
taken further steps to ascertain what the correct position was. So, I dont agree with 
Westerbys submission that information about a firms permissions wasnt available for an 
online user in 2013. And, in my view, the third-party report submitted by Westerby 
demonstrates the contrary to be the correct position.
Westerbys referred to a Complaints Commissioners report that highlights some issues with 
the Register. I appreciate that thereve been criticisms of the Register and that it may, on 
occasion, have contained errors. However, Im satisfied that a regulated market participant 
such as Westerby, acting in accordance with its regulatory obligations, ought to have 
understood that Abana needed permission from the FCA to give advice on and make 
arrangements for personal pensions in the UK. Therefore, before accepting business from 
Abana, Westerby needed to confirm that Abana held the required permissions. And, for the 
reasons Ive detailed above, Im satisfied that Abanas entry on the Register at the relevant 
time wouldve included a Permission page. And, if this page hadnt set out any information (for example, if the Permission page had erroneously been left blank) Westerby, in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations, shouldnt have accepted Mr Ls application from 
Abana before carrying out further enquiries to clarify the correct position on Abanas 
permissions.    
Westerby says that the FCA wont confirm details about a firm that arent available on its 
public register, I accept that. However, and for all the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied 
that top-up permissions are something that are recorded on the FCAs public register, and 
that this was also the case at the date Westerby accepted Mr Ls application from Abana.
Westerby says that Abana not holding the relevant permissions wouldnt have been a matter 
of public record. Further, that the FCA could only confirm what was on the Register, not what 
was missing from it and that the FCA wouldve been unable to provide any more information 
than that which was provided on the Register.
As Ive mentioned above, we dont have evidence of exactly what did appear on Abanas 
Permission page in 2013. However, this was information that ought to have been publicly 
available on the Register, so Im satisfied that whether Abana had top-up permissions was 
a matter of public record. And, if the Permission page had erroneously been left blank, I 
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that, if asked, the FCA wouldve been able to 
confirm the position that Abana didnt have the required permissions. 
So, Im still not persuaded by Westerbys submissions on this point; I think contacting the 
FCA was a sensible and proper route open to Westerby to verify Abanas permissions before 
accepting business from it. And if Westerby had contacted the FCA directly to confirm 
Abanas permissions because the Register didnt contain the relevant details, I dont think 
the restriction Westerbys referred to regarding what the FCA could confirm wouldve 
prevented Westerby getting the information it needed. Abana didnt have any top-up 
permissions. That was a matter of public record. So, I think the FCA wouldve been able to 
confirm this to Westerby. 
In response to my provisional decision Westerbys highlighted that this complaint arises from 
the FCAs negligence in failing to complete the permissions page for Abana on the public 
register. But, to be clear, even if there was an issue with Abanas Register entry, or if Im 
wrong in my finding that Abanas entry on the Register at the relevant time included a 
Permission page, (and the Basic details page was the totality of the Register entry for 
Abana in 2013), I still dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude that it was appropriate  
or in accordance with its regulatory obligations - for Westerby to have proceeded with Mr Ls 
application from Abana in those circumstances. 
Westerby ought to have independently checked and verified Abanas permissions before 
accepting business from it. And if there was no information available or accessible on the 
Register at the relevant time to reveal the permissions position of Abana, then Westerby 
ought to have either found another way to verify Abanas permissions, or it ought to have 
declined to accept any applications from Abana until it could verify the correct position on 
Abanas permissions. 
And if Westerby was simply unable to independently verify Abanas permissions  a position 
that I think is very unlikely given the available evidence  I think its fair and reasonable to 
say that Westerby shouldve then concluded that it was unsafe to proceed with accepting 
business from Abana in those circumstances. In my opinion, it wasnt reasonable, and it 
wasnt in-line with Westerbys regulatory obligations, for it to proceed with accepting 
business from Abana if the position wasnt clear. 
So, to summarise, I remain satisfied that:It wasnt fair and reasonable for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Abana 
if, as Westerby says, it was unable to establish what permissions Abana held. 
In that case Westerby shouldve sought confirmation from the FCA as to whether 
Abana held any top-up permissions. And, as Im satisfied this wouldve been a 
matter of public record, I think the FCA wouldve been able to confirm whether Abana 
held any permissions. 
Alternatively, if it was unable to independently verify Abanas permissions, Westerby 
should simply have declined to accept business from Abana. 
Could Westerby have relied on what Abana told it? 
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
Westerby says that it agreed Terms of Business with Abana (the Agreement) and, in 
signing the Agreement, Abana confirmed it held the permissions it required. 
Westerbys referred to meetings that took place between it and Abana. It says Abana 
confirmed its permissions in these meetings. And that, as Abana was an authorised firm, it 
was entitled to rely on what Abana had told it.
Westerbys also previously referred to the FCAs Thematic Review TR16/1, and to Gen 4 
Annex 1 of the FCA Handbook. These set out respectively that: firms can rely on factual 
information provided by other EEA-regulated firms as part of their due diligence process 
(TR/16/1, Para 5), and the statutory status disclosure incoming EEA firms are required to 
make.
COBS 2.4.6R (2) provides a general rule about reliance on others: 
(2) A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook that 
requires it to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to 
rely on information provided to it in writing by another person. 
And COBS 2.4.8 G says: 
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to 
rely on information provided to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or 
a professional firm, unless it is aware or ought reasonably to be aware of any fact 
that would give reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of that information.
So, it would generally be reasonable for Westerby to rely on information provided to it in 
writing by Abana, unless Westerby was aware or ought reasonably to have been aware of 
any fact that would give reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of the information. 
Westerby, in previous submissions, has confirmed that it kept no records of the discussions 
it had with Abana during the meetings its referred to, nor did Westerby record in writing 
specifically what Abana told it about the permissions it held. Westerbys said that SIPP 
operators arent required to meet with introducing IFAs before accepting business from them 
and, as such, it didnt have formal records of the discussions it had with Abana. However, Westerby now seeks to rely on these meetings to evidence that it did take steps to 
ascertain Abanas permissions and that Abana had confirmed to Westerby that it had the 
required top-up permissions. In my opinion, if these meetings were the way Westerby was 
intending to evidence Abanas permissions, in order to comply with its regulatory obligations, 
in particular Principle 2, (to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence), and 
Principle 3, (to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and 
effectively), Westerby shouldve had processes in place to ensure that it was able to 
evidence the due diligence it had carried out on Abana, including the steps taken to confirm 
Abanas permissions. 
Further, I dont think any meetings Westerby had with Abana amounts to Abana providing 
something in writing on which it may have been reasonable for Westerby to rely, as it was a 
verbal exchange only and there appears to be nothing in writing arising from these meetings. 
The corollary of this is that I dont therefore think COBS 2.4.6R (2) applies to the meetings. 
Westerby says that the meetings it had with Abana culminated with Westerby establishing a 
legal document  the Agreement  in which Abana warranted that it had the required 
permissions to introduce SIPPs business. 
Ive carefully considered what Westerbys said about the Written Agreement in response to 
my provisional decision. Amongst other things, its contended that the Written Agreement 
wasnt vague and generic in nature and that the term permissions encompasses top-up 
permissions.
However, I remain of the view that the Agreement appears to be a generic document and not 
specific to Abana. It doesnt refer to, nor require either party to confirm or warrant the 
accuracy of information supplied during a prior due diligence process (i.e. the meetings at 
which Westerby claims Abana gave verbal assurances as to its permissions). 
The Agreement provides as follows: 
The Intermediary warrants that he/she is suitably authorised by the Financial 
Services Authority in relation to the sale of the SIPP, and advice on underlying 
investments where appropriate, and will maintain all authorisations, permissions, 
authorities, licences and skills necessary for it to carry out its activities under this 
contract and will in all aspects comply with all Applicable Laws. 
I remain of the view that this doesnt amount to a clear statement that Abana had the 
required top-up permissions for it to advise on and arrange personal pensions in the UK 
that Westerby would be entitled to rely on. 
In addition, the activity of advising on rights under personal pension schemes isnt 
mentioned; rather, the authorisation is said to relate to the sale of the SIPP which I still 
think is an ambiguous term. And, the warranty that he/she is suitably authorised is generic 
and doesnt refer specifically to top-up permissions being required and Abana warranting 
that it has top-up permissions to conduct personal pensions business in the UK.  
After carefully considering the terms of the Agreement, and all the submissions Westerbys 
made in relation to what it says Abana told it about the permissions held, Im not satisfied on 
the evidence provided that Westerby did establish what top-up permissions Abana required 
to be arranging and giving advice on personal pensions in the UK and that it requested, and 
received, confirmation from Abana that it held those permissions. Im also not satisfied, for 
the reasons given above, that Westerby met its regulatory obligations in seeking to rely on 
the terms of the Agreement to conclude that Abana warranted it had the required top-up 
permissions. In any event, its my view that Westerby shouldve done more to independently verify that 
Abana had the required top-up permissions. If Westerby had carried out independent 
checks on Abanas permissions as required by its regulatory obligations, it ought to have 
been privy to information which didnt reconcile with what Abana had told it about its 
permissions. So, in failing to take this step, I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that 
Westerby didnt do enough in order to establish whether or not Abana did have the 
permissions it required.   
So, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think COBS 2.4.6R (2) applies to either the 
meetings Westerby had with Abana or the Agreement the parties entered into. However, Ive 
also given careful thought to whether it was reasonable for Westerby to rely on these things 
generally. Westerbys referred, in previous submissions, to the FCAs Thematic Review 
TR16/1 and to Gen 4 Annex 1 of the FCA Handbook, and Ive considered this question with 
those details in mind. However, Im not satisfied there was any other basis on which it was 
reasonable for Westerby to rely on the meetings and Agreement, and for much the same 
reasons as Ive given above in relation to COBS 2.4.6R (2). 
As the 2009 Thematic Review report makes clear, good practice, consistent with a SIPP 
operators regulatory obligations under the Principles, included: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
The 2009 report also makes it clear that a SIPP operator should have systems and controls 
which adequately safeguarded their clients interests. So, it was good practice to confirm a 
firm had the appropriate permissions and to do so in a way which adequately safeguarded 
their clients interests. And I dont think simply asking the firm if it had the permissions or 
requiring it to sign something providing this confirmation was sufficient to meet this standard 
of good practice. This is a view Westerby itself appears to have shared at the time. Its told 
us it checked the Register at the point that it received Mr L's SIPP application. Its also told 
us its procedure was to check the Register every time a SIPP application is received from an 
introducer, and every time advisor fees are paid from the SIPP. It says that, in its view, this 
demonstrates good practice, as per the FSAs 2009 Thematic Review Report. And thats a 
view I share. 
So Westerby shouldnt have  and didnt  rely solely on the Agreement. And, as mentioned 
above, for all the reasons Ive given, I still think Westerbys check of the Register ought to 
have led to the conclusion that Abana didnt have the required top-up permissions (i.e. if 
the information on Abanas Permission page had been correctly recorded), or in the 
alternative, that the Register didnt record the information on Abanas Permission page in 
order for Westerby to confirm the position one way or the other (for example, if the 
Permission page had erroneously been left blank). 
This means that either Westerby ought to have become aware of information which didnt 
reconcile with what Abana had told it about its permissions in the meetings and the 
Agreement, or that it was still under a regulatory obligation to undertake further enquiries to 
independently check Abanas permissions, and by failing to do so, it didnt meet the 
requirements it was under as a regulated SIPP operator.Anomalous features 
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
In my view, Westerby ought to have identified a risk of consumer detriment here. Mr L was 
taking advice on his pension from a business based in Portugal. That advice was to transfer 
the monies from two defined contribution occupational pension schemes with a former 
employer into a SIPP, and then to send the majority of the money transferred into the SIPP 
to investments based in Mauritius (with one later moving to the Cayman Islands). The 
investments involved were unusual, and specialised. And the chances of them being suitable 
investments for a significant portion of a retail investors pension were very small. So, given 
the relevant factors, Westerby ought to have viewed the application from Mr L as carrying a 
significant risk of consumer detriment. And it shouldve been aware that the role of the 
advisor was likely to be a very important one in the circumstances  emphasising the need 
for adequate due diligence to be carried out on Abana to independently ensure it had the 
correct permissions to be giving advice on personal pensions in the UK.  
I dont expect Westerby to have assessed the suitability of such a course of action for Mr L  
and I accept it couldnt do that. But, in order to meet the obligations set by the Principles 
(and COBS 2.1.1R), I think it ought to have recognised this as an unusual proposition, which 
carried a significant risk of consumer detriment. So, it ought to have taken particular care in 
its due diligence  it had to do so to treat Mr L fairly and act in his best interests. 
In any event, regardless of the points Ive made above about anomalous features of the 
proposed business, Im of the view that Westerby ought to have properly checked Abanas 
permissions in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. I make the above point only to 
highlight the importance of carrying out this check. 
Further points 
Westerbys said its contrary to European Union law to discriminate against a firm on the 
basis of the EEA country in which its been established. However, in my view, carrying out 
adequate checks on Abanas permissions doesnt equate to treating Abana differently by 
virtue of its location. Westerby shouldve carried out these checks on any firm introducing 
advised business to it. 
Westerbys said it provided quarterly Product Sales Data reports to the FCA, and that the 
FCA never expressed any concerns about it accepting business from Abana. Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest that at the time Westerby accepted Mr Ls application from Abana, a 
factor in its decision to do so was that it had been reporting the previous business it had 
been doing with Abana to the FCA, and that the FCA hadnt raised any concerns with it 
about this business. In any event, Im of the view that this is irrelevant, because if Westerby 
had acted in compliance with its regulatory obligations, it wouldnt have accepted business 
from Abana at all and Abana would therefore not have featured in its reporting to the FCA. 
Westerbys said that its able to accept applications from non-regulated introducers. But 
there seems to be no basis on which Mr Ls application could, or would, have proceeded on 
the understanding Abana was an unregulated introducer. Westerby seems to have 
understood from the outset that Abana wasnt simply an introducer of investments to its 
customers. It was carrying on the regulated activities of advising and arranging. It seems that 
in any event, Westerby had a policy not to accept introductions from unregulated 
businesses. So, in the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to make any findings based on the fact that Westerby was able to accept introductions from unregulated 
businesses, as that was not the circumstances involved in this case.
I appreciate that theres also an argument that if it had been identified that Abana didnt have 
the required top-up permissions, Abana might have applied for, and been granted, the 
relevant top-up permissions. However, I find no merit in this line of argument. Im required 
to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. And in this case, 
Westerby accepted business from a firm which didnt have the required permissions to be 
carrying on the business that it did. And, Westerby failed to identify this fact prior to 
accepting Mr Ls application. So, this is what I need to consider here  not a possible 
situation that couldve happened.
Westerbys submitted that where complaints have been received by this service against both 
Abana and Westerby, that we should decide the complaint against Abana before, or at the 
same time as, the complaint against Westerby. Later in this decision, Ive addressed the 
question of whether its fair to ask Westerby to pay Mr L compensation in the circumstances 
of this complaint. But, before going on to address that issue in detail below, I wanted to 
repeat what Id previously said in the provisional decision about the fact that Mr L hasnt 
referred a complaint about Abana to us. Hes only referred a complaint to us about 
Westerby. So, thats the only complaint from Mr L Im reviewing.
In conclusion 
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence in this case, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Ive arrived at the same conclusion as I reached in my 
provisional decision. For completeness, Ive repeated this conclusion below.
Westerby ought to have identified that Abana needed top-up permissions to advise on and 
make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK, and taken all the steps available to it to 
independently verify that Abana had the required permissions. 
If Westerby had taken these steps, it wouldve established Abana didnt have the 
permissions it required to give advice or make arrangements for personal pensions in the 
UK, or that it was unable to confirm whether Abana had the required permissions. 
In either event, it wasnt in accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good industry 
practice for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Abana. 
Additionally, Westerby ought to have considered the anomalous features of this business 
Ive outlined above. These were further factors relevant to Westerbys acceptance of Mr Ls 
application which, at the very least, emphasised the need for adequate due diligence to be 
carried out on Abana to independently ensure it had the correct permissions to be giving 
advice on personal pensions in the UK. 
Its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude that none of the points 
Westerby has raised are factors which mitigate its decision to accept Mr Ls application from 
Abana.
Im therefore satisfied the fair and reasonable conclusion in this complaint is that Westerby 
shouldnt have accepted Mr Ls SIPP application from Abana. 
Due diligence on the underlying investments
In light of my conclusions about Westerbys regulatory obligations to carry out sufficient due 
diligence on introducers, and given my finding that in the circumstances of this complaint Westerby failed to comply with these obligations, Ive not considered Westerbys obligations 
under the Principles in respect of carrying out sufficient due diligence on the underlying 
investments. I understand that this was the basis of Mr Ls original complaint to Westerby but 
its my view that had Westerby complied with its obligations under the Principles to carry out 
sufficient due diligence checks on Abana, then this arrangement wouldnt have come about 
in the first place.
Is it fair to ask Westerby to pay Mr L compensation in the circumstances? 
Would the business have still gone ahead if Westerby had refused the application? 
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive repeated much of what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
I think its most likely that if Westerby had refused to accept Mr Ls application from Abana 
and Mr L had received an explanation as to why his application hadnt been accepted (as 
Abana didnt have the necessary top-up permissions it needed to provide such advice, or 
alternatively as Westerby hadnt been able to independently verify that Abana had the 
necessary top-up permissions to provide such advice), Mr L wouldnt have continued to 
accept or act on pensions advice provided by Abana. And I think its very unlikely that advice 
from a business that did have the necessary permissions wouldve resulted in Mr L taking 
the same course of action. I think its reasonable to say that a business that did have the 
necessary permissions wouldve given suitable advice. 
In response to my provisional decision Westerbys said that had it uncovered that Abana 
didnt have the relevant permissions, it wouldnt have accepted business from Abana and it 
wouldnt have received Mr Ls application. Westerby also says its contract was with Abana 
not Mr L and that if Mr Ls application was refused it wouldnt have been at liberty to, or had 
reason to, contact Mr L.
But Westerby did receive Mr Ls application, so Im considering what it ought to have done 
having received Mr Ls application. And for the reasons Ive explained at length above Im 
satisfied that, having received Mr Ls application from Abana, it shouldnt then have accepted 
Mr Ls SIPP application.
Mr L went through a process with Abana that culminated in him completing paperwork to set 
up a new Westerby SIPP and with the expectancy that monies from existing pension plans 
would be transferred into the newly established SIPP. Having gone to the time and effort of 
doing this, I think its most likely that if the Westerby SIPP wasnt then established, and if his 
pension monies werent then transferred to Westerby, that Mr L wouldve wanted to find out 
why from Abana and Westerby. 
And I wouldnt think it fair and reasonable to say that Westerby shouldnt compensate Mr L 
for his loss on the basis of any speculation that Abana and/or Westerby wouldnt have 
confirmed to Mr L the reason why the transfer hadnt proceeded if asked by him. 
So, I think its fair to conclude that one or more of the parties involved wouldve then 
explained to Mr L that his application hadnt been accepted as Abana didnt have the 
necessary top-up permissions it needed to provide the advice, or alternatively as Westerby 
hadnt been able to independently verify that Abana had the necessary top-up permissions 
to provide the advice. And that Mr L wouldnt then have continued to accept or act on 
pensions advice provided by Abana. Further, I think its very unlikely that advice from a 
business that did have the necessary permissions wouldve resulted in Mr L taking the same course of action. I think its reasonable to say that a business that did have the necessary 
permissions wouldve given suitable advice. 
In response to my provisional decision, Westerbys highlighted that Mr L appointed KB 
Wealth as his financial advisor in September 2015. And its contended that this suggests 
Mr L wouldve continued to act on pensions advice from Abana. 
Ive noted what was said in Westerbys June 2015 and July 2015 letters about Abana (FS) 
Ltd. But Ive not seen sufficient evidence to show that Mr L was aware that KB Wealth was 
the same business as Abana (FS) Ltd. But, even if I had, I cant see that Mr L was ever told 
that KB Wealth didnt have the necessary permissions to provide him with pension advice 
and that he still then decided to consult with it. 
So, I dont think the situation with KB Wealth is analogous to the situation with Abana. And 
its still my view that, once hed been told that his application hadnt been accepted as Abana 
didnt have the necessary top-up permissions it needed to provide the advice, or 
alternatively as Westerby hadnt been able to independently verify that Abana had the 
necessary top-up permissions to provide the advice, Mr L wouldnt then have continued to 
accept or act on pensions advice provided by Abana. 
Further, I think its still reasonable to say that a business that did have the necessary 
permissions wouldve given suitable advice. And as Mr Ls application for the SIPP was 
received before Abana (FS) Ltd had been incorporated, so Im also satisfied that any advice 
given to Mr L in 2013 from a firm other than Abana wouldnt have been from Abana (FS) 
Ltd/KB Wealth. 
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):  
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but 
nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive.
But, in this case, Ive seen no evidence to show Mr L proceeded in the knowledge that the 
investment he was making was high risk and speculative, and that he was determined to 
move forward with the transaction in order to take advantage of a cash incentive offered by 
Abana. 
It appears Mr L understood that his pension monies were being moved into a low to medium 
risk pension arrangement. And theres no evidence to show Mr L understood he was making 
a high-risk investment. Mr Ls said we were offered advice from an IFA [Mr F] to move our 
pensions into a medium to low risk pension scheme - told that it was linked to bridging loans 
in the city of London. 
Ive also not seen any evidence to show Mr L was paid a cash incentive. It therefore cannot 
be said he was incentivised to enter into the transaction. And, on balance, Im satisfied that 
Mr L, unlike Mr Adams, wasnt eager to complete the transaction for reasons other than 
securing the best pension for himself. So, in my opinion, this case is very different from that 
of Mr Adams.
In response to my provisional decision, Westerbys contended that Mr L would likely have 
proceeded with the transfer and investments regardless of the actions it took. Its highlighted 
that other SIPP providers were accepting such investments at the time, and says the 
transactions wouldve been effected with another provider.Westerby might argue that another SIPP operator wouldve accepted Mr Ls application, had 
it declined it. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Westerby shouldnt 
compensate Mr L for his loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator 
wouldve made the same mistakes as Ive found it did. I think its fair instead to assume that 
another SIPP provider wouldve complied with its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted Mr Ls application from Abana. 
Further, and in any eventuality, even if another SIPP provider had been willing to accept 
Mr Ls application from Abana, that process would still have needed Mr L to be willing to 
continue to do business with Abana after Westerby had rejected his application for another 
application to proceed. And, for the reasons Ive given above, Im not satisfied that Mr L 
wouldve continued to accept or act on pensions advice from Abana in such circumstances. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that if Westerby had 
refused to accept Mr Ls application from Abana, the transaction wouldnt still have gone 
ahead. 
The involvement of Abana
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive repeated much of what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
In this decision Im considering Mr Ls complaint about Westerby. While it may be the case 
that Abana gave unsuitable advice to Mr L to transfer the monies from his defined 
contribution occupational pension schemes into a SIPP and make unsuitable investments, 
Westerby had its own distinct set of obligations when considering whether to accept Mr Ls 
application for a SIPP. 
Abana had a responsibility not to conduct regulated business that went beyond the scope of 
its permissions. Westerby wasnt required to ensure Abana complied with that responsibility. 
But Westerby had its own distinct regulatory obligations under the Principles. And this 
included to check that firms introducing advised business to it had the regulatory 
permissions to be doing so. In my view, Westerbys failed to comply with these obligations in 
this case. 
Im satisfied that if Westerby had carried out sufficient due diligence on Abana, and acted in 
accordance with good practice and its regulatory obligations by independently checking 
Abanas permissions before accepting business from it, Westerby wouldnt have done any 
SIPP business with Abana in the first place. 
Im also satisfied that if Mr L had been told that Abana was acting outside its permissions in 
giving pensions advice, or alternatively that Westerby hadnt been able to independently 
verify that Abana had the necessary top-up permissions to provide such advice, he 
wouldnt have continued to accept or act on advice from it. And, having taken into account all 
the circumstances of this case, its my view that its fair and reasonable to hold Westerby 
responsible for its failure to identify that Abana didnt have the required top-up permissions 
to be giving advice and making arrangements on personal pensions in the UK. 
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation (DISP 
3.7.2R). As I set out above, in my opinion its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
hold Westerby accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant regulatory 
obligations and to treat Mr L fairly. 
The starting point therefore, is that it would be fair to require Westerby to pay Mr L 
compensation for the loss hes suffered as a result of Westerbys failings. Ive considered 
whether theres any reason why it wouldnt be fair to ask Westerby to compensate Mr L for 
his loss, including if it would be fair to hold another party liable in full or in part. And Im 
satisfied its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby to compensate Mr L to 
the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to its failings. 
I accept that it may be the case that Abana, in advising Mr L to enter into a SIPP, is 
responsible for initiating the course of action that led to Mr Ls loss. However, its also the 
case that if Westerby had complied with its own distinct regulatory obligations as a SIPP 
operator, the arrangement for Mr L wouldnt have come about in the first place, and the loss 
he suffered couldve been avoided. 
I explained in my provisional decision that Westerby could have the option to take an 
assignment of any rights of action Mr L has against Abana before compensation is paid. And 
that the compensation could be made contingent upon Mr Ls acceptance of this term of 
settlement. 
In response to this Westerbys said that as Abanas ceased to trade then any indemnity from 
Abana and/or assignment of any action against it from Mr L is effectively worthless. 
I accept that may be true. However, the key point here is that but for Westerbys failings, 
Mr L wouldnt have suffered the loss hes suffered. As a result, the trading/financial position 
of Abana, and the fact that Westerby may not be able to rely on an indemnity from Abana 
and/or the fact that any assignment of any action against Abana from Mr L might be 
worthless, doesnt lead me to change my overall view on this point. And, as such, I remain of 
the opinion that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby to compensate 
Mr L to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to its failings, and 
notwithstanding any failings by Abana.
In response to my provisional decision Westerbys also highlighted that in a previous 
decision involving an EEA firm that had acted outside its permissions, a different 
ombudsman made an apportionment between the SIPP provider and the advisor on a 50/50 
basis. 
The circumstances and facts of the other complaint Westerbys mentioned appear to be very 
different to Mr Ls complaint. And it also looks like the SIPP provider in the other complaint 
had already compensated the consumer for half of their losses before the ombudsman was 
asked to decide the complaint against the EEA firm.
Importantly, we consider each complaint on its own merits, and the question I have to 
address in this case is whether, in all of the circumstances of this specific complaint, its fair 
to ask Westerby to compensate Mr L to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered 
due to its failings and, for the reasons Ive already given above, Im satisfied it is. 
I want to make clear that Ive carefully taken everything Westerby has said into 
consideration. And I remain of the view that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for 
Westerby to compensate Mr L to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to 
Westerbys failings. And, taking into account the combination of factors Ive set out above, 
Im not persuaded that it would be appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the 
compensation amount that Westerby has to pay to Mr L.    Mr L taking responsibility for his own investment decisions 
I note the point has been made by Westerby that consumers should take responsibility for 
their own investment decisions. Ive considered the actions of Mr L in relation to the 
mitigation of loss, in the section below. Beyond that, Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to say Mr Ls actions mean he should bear the loss arising as a result of 
Westerbys failings. 
Mr L took advice from a regulated advisor (albeit one acting outside the permissions it held  
a fact unknown to Mr L) and used the services of a regulated personal pension provider, 
Westerby. And Im satisfied that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, its fair to say 
Westerby should compensate Mr L for the loss hes suffered. I dont think it would be fair to 
say in the circumstances that Mr L should suffer the loss because he ultimately instructed 
the investments to be made. 
Opportunity to mitigate losses
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive repeated much of what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
Westerby says it wrote to Mr L to highlight issues with the funds his SIPP invested in and to 
inform him of an opportunity to realise some of his investment value. It says Mr L had a 
responsibility to take appropriate action to safeguard his funds and so should be responsible 
for the losses hes suffered. 
Westerby says it disagrees with the finding in my provisional decision that efforts to redeem 
the investments wouldnt have been successful. Westerby says that in the complaint that 
was the subject of the published decision, the consumer was able to redeem their funds in 
May 2016. And its likely that Mr L couldve also mitigated his losses with a timely 
redemption request. 
Ive carefully reconsidered this point but, as I explain below, I still dont think its fair for any 
reduction to be made to fair compensation on the basis of a failure by Mr L to mitigate his 
loss.
In response to my provisional decision Westerbys said, amongst other things, that it was 
acting in the best interests of investors by keeping an eye on the investments and flagging 
issues with them. Further, that following its November 2014 letter, any investor wouldve 
sought independent financial advice or made some reasonable lines of enquiries. 
I dont think it would be fair to say Mr L shouldve made a redemption request when 
Westerby wrote to him in November 2014. Regarding enquiries, the November 2014 letter 
required Mr L to seek advice, and urged him to contact his financial advisor, Abana. It seems 
Mr L did this, and was advised to keep the investments. In these circumstances, Im of the 
view that its not fair to say Mr L ought to have acted differently. 
Westerbys told us that its process was to check an advisory firms permissions every time it 
received an application to open a SIPP, and every time an advisors remuneration was to be 
paid. So, by the time Westerby wrote to Mr L in November 2014, it wouldve had many 
opportunities to discover that Abana didnt have the top-up permissions it needed to give 
advice or make arrangements on personal pensions in the UK. As such, its still my view that 
for Westerby to have suggested that Mr L seek advice from Abana once problems with the funds hed invested in had come to light, is a further failing of Westerbys regulatory 
obligations and the requirement to treat Mr L fairly. 
In its June 2015 letter to Mr L, Westerby had mentioned that Abana clients were being 
moved over to Abana (FS) Ltd  a UK based firm authorised by the FCA. Westerby then 
explained to Mr L in July 2015 that clients were no longer being moved over to Abana (FS) 
Ltd. Westerby said it understood the reason for this was that Abana didnt consider Abana 
(FS) Ltd to be suitably independent to provide advice on Mr Ls SIPP. 
Westerby also urged Mr L to have his SIPP reviewed by an IFA with the necessary 
permissions. I think that was a fair and reasonable step to take in the circumstances, which 
goes some way towards correcting Westerbys earlier failure to meet its regulatory 
obligations by referring Mr L back to Abana. 
There was then the letter of 10 September 2015, that explained that trading in the ePortfolio 
Solutions platform had been suspended pending the completion of a buy-out.
Mr L doesnt appear to have taken much action following these letters. In the June 2015 
letter Mr L was told of an investigation into the Kijani Fund, but he was told at the same time 
that hed be getting his money back. And the letter of 10 September 2015 then explained 
that all trading on the ePortolio Solutions platform had been suspended. So, I dont think it 
fair to say Mr L could, or should, have done anything further at that time. Thats because I 
think following the June 2015 update it was reasonable for Mr L to think he didnt need to do 
anything, and following the September 2015 update it was reasonable for him to conclude he 
couldnt do anything.
Westerbys explained that in September 2015 it received a letter of authority confirming that 
Mr L had appointed KB Wealth as his financial advisor. Further, that KB Wealth was 
originally called Abana (FS) Ltd (it appears from the FCA Register that the name change 
occurred in August 2015). 
Ive carefully considered what Westerbys said about Mr L appointing KB Wealth as his 
advisor but, to be clear, it still doesnt alter my view that following Westerbys June 2015 
update it was reasonable for Mr L to think he didnt need to do anything, and following the 
September 2015 update it was reasonable for him to conclude he couldnt do anything.
Further, Ive noted that in the complaint that was the subject of the published decision 
Westerbys confirmed in a letter dated 21 December 2015 that it summarised the situation 
with the Kijani fund to the complainant in that case, in October 2015, as suspended, in 
liquidation. Likely to take a number of years. Unclear as to what will come back.
So, in any eventuality, I also think theres insufficient evidence to show any redemption 
request made in relation to the Kijani fund after Westerbys July 2015 letter wouldve been 
successful. 
There was then the December 2015 letter in which it was explained that a suspension on the 
SAMAIF Fund might lift, but I think its fair to consider that by that point there was a lot of 
uncertainty surrounding the status of the fund and it wasnt at all clear what level of loss Mr L 
might be crystallising if he were to sell his investment. So, even if the suspension was lifted 
as envisaged, I dont think its fair to say Mr L has contributed to his loss by not ordering its 
redemption. 
In the December 2015 letter, Westerby referred to there being liquid funds of about £40,000 
available, but I dont think this was accurate as the majority of this was the SAMAIF holding 
which was suspended, and there was no independent verification of this value. And I see Westerby itself noted in its letter there was uncertainty around these funds. So, I dont think 
it fair to say there was (around) £40,000 available to Mr L at this time, or that he ought to 
have concluded that was the case.
And I also think the December 2015 letter is somewhat contradictory as it says the 
suspension of SAMAIF has been lifted but then says that the lift of the suspension is not yet 
active (i.e. its still suspended).  
Ive noted that redemption forms were requested for Mr L in March 2016. There was further 
correspondence between Mr L and Westerby about transfer forms in April 2016. And 
Westerby also told Mr L in April 2016 that the holdings in the Kijani and SAMAIF funds were 
illiquid.
Westerbys said that wet signatures" were required by ePortfolio Solutions in order to 
redeem funds. And that a hard copy of Mr L's signed form wasnt received by it, so it wasnt 
able to instruct a redemption. 
In April 2016 there was email correspondence between Mr L and Westerby about Mr Ls 
forms, this included Mr L asking Westerby to advise what is missing so I can action. And 
Ive not seen that Westerby then requested hard copies of forms or wet signatures in 
response. But this is a secondary point in any event, because Ive also not seen sufficient 
evidence to show a redemption request wouldve been successful even if Westerby had 
received a hard copy of a redemption request with wet signatures from Mr L. 
I note that in June 2016 Westerby stated in a letter it sent to us in another complaint that 
SAMAIF still wasnt trading yet. And in June 2017, Westerby explained to Mr L that the 
SAMAIF investment was included within a Managed Portfolio (S) holding. And that the funds 
within that holding were suspended and couldnt be redeemed.
All of which suggests SAMAIF was still suspended for quite some time after the 23 
December 2015 letter and its not clear if that suspension was ever lifted. This appears to be 
consistent with what was said in the published decision, in which it was stated that the 
amount paid to the SIPP in that case likely came from another investment rather than the 
Kijani or SAMAIF funds, as both appeared to have been suspended over the relevant period 
in that case.
So, theres insufficient evidence to show any redemption request made in relation to the 
Kijani fund after Westerbys July 2015 letter wouldve been successful. And my view remains 
that Ive not seen sufficient evidence to show a redemption request wouldve been 
successful even if Westerby had received a hard copy of a redemption request from Mr L.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr L to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Westerbys failure to verify that Abana had the correct permissions to be providing advice on 
pensions in the UK and before accepting Mr Ls SIPP application from it.  
Prior to transferring to Westerby, Mr L had defined contribution pension schemes with a 
former employer with a combined transfer value of a little over £70,000. If Mr L had sought 
advice from a different advisor, who was qualified to give pension switching advice, I think 
its more likely than not that the advice wouldve been to stay in his existing pension 
schemes. I think its unlikely that another advisor, acting properly, wouldve advised Mr L to 
transfer away from his existing pension schemes. In light of the above, Westerby should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current 
position to the position Mr L would be in if he hadnt transferred away from his existing 
pension schemes. In summary, Westerby should:
1)Obtain the current notional value, as at the date of this decision, of Mr Ls 
previous pension plans, if theyd not been transferred to the SIPP.
 
2) Obtain the actual current value of Mr Ls SIPP, as at the date of this decision, less 
any outstanding charges.
3) Deduct the sum arrived at in step 2) from the sum arrived at in step 1).
4) Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Ls share in any investments that cannot 
currently be redeemed.
5) Pay an amount into Mr Ls SIPP, so that the transfer value of the SIPP is 
increased by an amount equal to the loss calculated in step 3). This payment 
should take account of any available tax relief and the effect of charges. The 
payment should also take account of interest as set out below.
6) Pay Mr L £500 for the distress and inconvenience the problems with his 
pension have caused him.
Lastly, in order to be fair to Westerby, it should have the option of payment of the redress 
being contingent upon Mr L assigning any claim he may have against Abana to Westerby  
but only in so far as Mr L is compensated here. The terms of the assignment should require 
Westerby to account to Mr L for any amount it subsequently recovers against Abana that 
exceeds the loss paid to Mr L. Westerby would need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
assignment.
Ive explained how Westerby should carry out the calculation, set out in steps 1 - 6 above, in 
further detail below:
1) Obtain the current notional value, as at the date of this decision, of Mr Ls previous 
pension plans, if theyd not been transferred to the SIPP.
Westerby should ask the operator of Mr Ls former defined contribution pension 
schemes to calculate the current notional value of Mr Ls plans, as at the date of this 
decision, had he not transferred into the SIPP. Westerby must also ask the same 
operator to make a notional allowance in its calculations for any additional sums Mr L 
has contributed to, or withdrawn from, his Westerby SIPP since outset. 
Any notional contributions or notional withdrawals to be allowed for in the calculation, 
should be deemed to have occurred on the date on which monies were actually 
credited to, or withdrawn from, the Westerby SIPP by Mr L. 
If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation from the operator of Mr Ls 
former defined contribution pension schemes, Westerby should instead calculate a 
notional valuation by ascertaining what the monies transferred away from the 
schemes would now be worth, as at the date of this decision, had they achieved a 
return from the date of transfer equivalent to the FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index.
Im satisfied thats a reasonable proxy for the type of return that couldve been achieved over the period in question. And, again, there should be a notional 
allowance in this calculation for any additional sums Mr L has contributed to, or 
withdrawn from, his Westerby SIPP since outset.
2) Obtain the actual current value of Mr Ls SIPP, as at the date of this decision, less 
any outstanding charges. 
This should be the current value as at the date of this decision.
3) Deduct the sum arrived at in step 2) from the sum arrived at in step 1).
The total sum calculated in step 1) minus the sum arrived at in step 2), is the loss to 
Mr Ls pension.
4) Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Ls share in any investments that cannot 
currently be redeemed.
Im satisfied that Mr Ls Westerby SIPP only still exists because of the illiquid 
investments that are held within it. And that but for these investments Mr Ls monies 
wouldve been transferred away from Westerby. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, any remaining investments need to be 
removed from the SIPP. 
To do this Westerby should reach an amount its willing to accept as a commercial 
value for the investments, and pay this sum into the SIPP and take ownership of the 
relevant investments.
If Westerbys unwilling or unable to purchase the investments, then the actual value 
of any investments it doesnt purchase should be assumed to be nil for the purposes 
of the redress calculation. To be clear, this would include their being given a nil value 
for the purposes of ascertaining the current value of Mr Ls SIPP in step 2).
If Westerby doesnt purchase the investments, it may ask Mr L to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive 
from these investments. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and 
charges on the amount Mr L may receive from the investments, and any eventual 
sums he would be able to access from the SIPP. Westerby will need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
5) Pay an amount into Mr Ls SIPP, so that the transfer value of the SIPP is 
increased by an amount equal to the loss calculated in step 3). This payment 
should take account of any available tax relief and the effect of charges. The 
payment should also take account of interest as set out below.
The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into a pension plan if it would conflict with 
any existing protections or allowances.
If Westerbys unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ls SIPP, or if doing so 
would give rise to protection or allowance issues, it should instead pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ls expected marginal rate of tax in retirement at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement at the 
selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr L wouldve been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
6) Pay Mr L £500 for the distress and inconvenience the problems with his 
pension have caused him.
In addition to the financial loss that Mr L has suffered as a result of the 
problems with his pension, I think that the loss of a significant portion of his 
pension provision has caused Mr L distress. And I think that its fair for 
Westerby to compensate him for this as well.
SIPP fees
If the investments cant be removed from the SIPP, and it hence cannot be closed after 
compensation has been paid, then it wouldnt be fair for Mr L to have to continue to pay 
annual SIPP fees to keep the SIPP open. As such, Westerby should pay an amount into 
Mr Ls SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees that will be payable on the SIPP 
(based on the most recent years fees). Five years should allow enough time for the issues 
with the investments to be dealt with, and for them to be removed from the SIPP. As an 
alternative to this, Westerby can agree to waive any future fees which might be payable by 
Mr Ls SIPP.  
Interest
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mr L or into his SIPP 
within 28 days of the date Westerby receives notification of Mr Ls acceptance of my final 
decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation isnt 
paid within 28 days.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above it is my decision that we can consider Mr Ls complaint 
against Westerby Trustee Services Limited.
It is also my decision that the complaint is upheld and that Westerby Trustee Services 
Limited must pay fair compensation to Mr L as set out above.
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Westerby Trustee Services 
Limited should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of 
£150,000 (including distress and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest 
set out above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Westerby Trustee Services Limited pay Mr L the balance plus 
any interest on the balance as set out above.
If the loss does not exceed £150,000, or if Westerby Trustee Services Limited accepts the 
recommendation to pay the full loss as calculated above, Westerby Trustee Services Limited 
should have the option of taking an assignment of Mr Ls rights in relation to any claim he may have against Abana, and an assignment of the right to any future payment Abana may 
make to Mr L as part of the settlement agreed following the third-party review.
If the loss exceeds £150,000 and Westerby Trustee Services Limited does not accept the 
recommendation to pay the full amount, any assignment of Mr Ls rights should allow him to 
retain all rights to the difference between £150,000 and the full loss as calculated above.
If Westerby elects to take an assignment of rights before paying compensation, it must first 
provide a draft of the assignment to Mr L for his consideration and agreement. Any expenses 
incurred for the drafting of the assignment should be met by Westerby Trustee Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Alex Mann
Ombudsman