DRN-2808075
The complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) in 1995 with a store card.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.
What happened
In 1995, Mrs H applied for a store card by completing an application form in a Dorothy 
Perkins store. PPI was added to her account. She says this was done without her 
knowledge; she says she didnt need PPI because she was in good health, in full time 
employment, she would get sick pay and had savings, assets and other insurance. She 
concludes the policy was mis-sold.
The policy cost was no more than £1.00 per £100 Mrs H owed on her store card. And the 
policy would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs H 
couldnt work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also 
provided life cover.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Mrs H disagreed with our adjudicators 
view, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. And having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I know this will disappoint her, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether AXA France made it clear the policy was an optional product. AXA 
France produced a copy of Mrs Hs store card application. I can see there was a tick box 
stating Yes, I want my account covered by Payment Protection This box is ticked on 
Mrs Hs application. She said this wasnt her tick, so I can reasonably assume the form 
was most likely completed by a member of staff. I noted she declined other offers on the 
application form - so I think the form was diligently completed and there was probably 
some sort of discussion about the things she wanted and didnt want. And as she signed 
the form, I can reasonably assume she checked the details were correct. So I think her 
signature means AXA France probably made it clear the policy was optional and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may not be able to remember this 
in detail.
I can reasonably assume the premiums for the policy would have appeared on her 
statements  so if she hadnt agreed to the policy, or it had been added without either her 
knowledge or her consent, I think its reasonable to say she would have queried the 
premiums shortly after the policy was added. So taking all this into consideration, I think Mrs 
H probably knew the policy was optional and chose to purchase it because she saw some 
value in it.
I dont think AXA France advised Mrs H to take out the PPI. This means AXA France didnt 
have to make sure the policy was suitable for her, but it still had to provide her with clear 
information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. 
I dont know exactly what information Mrs H received about the policy at the time of the sale. 
But even if I accept that she wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I dont 
think this would have affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons explained 
below.
Mrs H was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made it difficult for her to make a claim  such as a 
pre-existing medical condition. She told us she was employed and in good health. Mrs H 
says she would have received sick pay if she was away from work due to illness. But the 
policy could have paid out in addition to Mrs Hs employment benefits so could have proved 
useful to Mrs H if she had an accident, became ill or lost her job. 
Mrs H told us she had many other sources of income, but she did not tell us how much and I 
have not seen her other insurance policies to see how they compared to the PPI. So in the 
absence of that evidence, I think the PPI was still useful for her.
I dont know if AXA made the cost and benefits of the policy clear enough for Mrs H to 
understand what the real cost of the policy was for her. But taking everything into account, I 
think if Mrs H had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she would have thought 
the policy potentially useful. The policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the 
outstanding balance was cleared and the monthly cost did not seem to be unaffordable.
Taking everything into account, I think she knew she had a choice about taking the PPI and I 
think she would still have taken out the cover even if she had been given full details about it.  
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Hs submissions, but they do not change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman