DRN-3135766
The complaint
Mr M complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited did not properly explain the terms on which 
it agreed to defer payments on a hire purchase agreement. He says he should therefore be 
released from any further payment obligations under the agreement.
What happened
In July 2017 Mr M entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo. Under 
the agreement he was to make monthly payments of £380.49. 
Because of the Covid-19 pandemic and resultant lock-down, Mr M found that he was having 
difficulty making payments. In May 2020 he contacted MotoNovo using its online service to 
ask if he could defer payments, in line with the Coronavirus Guidelines issued by the 
regulator, the FCA.
Initially, MotoNovo did not respond, for which it apologised. It then agreed to defer the 
payments due in June, July and August 2020. It returned the direct debit payment which had 
been taken between Mr Ms application and its response. 
In agreeing to the referral request, MotoNovo wrote:
Its important to make it clear that this deferral (also known as a concession) is a temporary 
pause in your repayments and does not change or vary your Agreement in any way, so your 
next three monthly repayments have been put on hold, not cancelled.
We want to reassure you that this temporary payment deferral will not negatively affect your 
credit rating. We will also not charge you any additional fees or interest during the deferral 
period so it wont cost you any more.
At the end of the deferral period, your normal repayment will start again. Well work with you 
to agree an appropriate arrangement to help you repay the deferred payments. This could 
be by increasing your monthly repayments over a longer period or by an immediate payment 
in full, its up to you, as long as you make sure that you catch up your deferred payments 
over the rest of your Agreement.  
In December 2020 Mr M contacted MotoNovo to say that he wasnt happy with the way the 
payment deferral had been handled. Specifically, he complained that he had not been told 
about the interest charges that would apply during the deferral period. MotoNovo agreed that 
it could have explained things more clearly and agreed to pay Mr M £50 in recognition of 
that. 
Mr M did not think that offer went far enough. He also said that, although MotoNovo had said 
it would pay him £50, it had not done so. When our investigator asked about this, MotoNovo 
said it had overlooked the need to make the payment and arranged an increased payment of 
£75. The investigator thought that was fair. Mr M did not agree, however, and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire purchase agreement set out the monthly payments needed, as well as the interest 
rate and APR. It did so in the format required for an agreement which was regulated under 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
When Mr M asked for a three-month deferment in his payments, MotoNovo wrote to him to 
explain that there would be no charges, that his credit rating would not be affected by the 
deferral and that, at the end of the deferral period, monthly payments would start again. 
MotoNovo also explained that the deferred payments would need to be made before the end 
of the hire purchase agreement. 
The letter did not expressly deal with interest. It did however say that the deferral was   a 
temporary pause in your repayments and does not change or vary your Agreement in any 
way. That was, in my view, a full and accurate explanation of how the deferral would 
work; Mr M would not have to make any payments for three months. The monthly payments 
were made up of interest and capital. The exact split changed each month as the capital 
balance was reduced, but that made no difference to the concession made by MotoNovo or, 
importantly, to the action required of Mr M.
Mr M says the letter did not address the issue of interest or how it would be dealt with. I dont 
agree. The letter explained that, other than the deferral of three payments, the hire purchase 
agreement was unchanged. That is, Mr M was still required to make all the payments he had 
agreed to make when he signed the agreement in July 2017; the only change was that three 
of the payments could be deferred. 
Mr M said as well that his credit record was showing missing payments after the deferral. 
That does not appear to be the case, however. 
In the circumstances, I believe that MotoNovo has done enough to resolve Mr Ms complaint.     
My final decision
For these reasons I do not require MotoNovo Finance Limited to do anything more to resolve 
the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman