DRN-3474583
The complaint
Mr D and Mr A have complained about Fairmead Insurance Limited as two claims on the 
policy Mr D holds with it havent been accepted or settled, and Fairmead says that if they 
are, settlement will be proportional because the property is underinsured.
I am aware that Fairmead has had no direct contact in respect of the claim and complaint; 
everything, including its complaint response, has been handled by a company (P) acting on 
its behalf. But as Fairmead is the insurer, and is ultimately responsible for P, I have only 
referred to Fairmead in the body of my decision.
 
What happened
The property in question is a two-storey terraced house, comprising a double-height 
extension at the rear and a converted loft, with the loft and two main floors (complete with 
their extensions) divided into three separate flats. Mr D owns the building and flats 2 and 3 
(3 being the loft conversion). Flat 1, on the ground floor, is owned by Mr A.
Mr D had a policy with Fairmead for the property as a whole, arranged via a broker. The 
policy had last renewed on 23 January 2021 with a sum inured for rebuilding the property of 
£214,554. In February 2021 the tenants of flat 3 moved out  they had reported a damp 
patch on the hall carpet, when this was investigated significant water damage was found and 
the tenants of flat 2 also reported water came into their flat. Initially discussions on the cause 
of the leak suggested there might be an issue with the shower in flat 3, but Mr D said the 
tenants at the property had said the water ingress seemed to occur when it rained. Mr D 
engaged a roofer who he says completed some temporary repairs, including to slipped tiles, 
and the water ingress ceased. But the roofer stopped communicating with Mr D, didnt send 
a bill and wouldnt return his calls.   
Meanwhile the residents of flat 1 also reported water ingress. Investigations found a failed 
seal to pipework coming from the sink of flat 2. The pipework was fixed but the water 
damage to the room below in flat 1 was fairly extensive. 
Claims for both incidents were made to Fairmead. A loss adjuster visited the property on 
15 March 2021. He thought the sum insured was too low. He noted the size of the property 
as totalling 226 square metres. He calculated the rebuild cost to be £377,304. Fairmead 
noted that if that sum insured had been set at that value, a premium of £411.40 would have 
been charged, instead of the £233.94 which was charged. It said that was 57% of the higher 
figure and the policy allowed it, where there was underinsurance like this, to settle claims 
based on the portion of the correct premium which had been paid. Mr D was unhappy and 
challenged the findings of the adjuster. A surveyor was appointed who felt the level of 
underinsurance might be even more. Fairmead decided to discount the surveyors findings 
and rely on those of its loss adjuster.  
Mr D maintained that the property had not been significantly underinsured. He said 
architects plans showed that the size of the ground and first floor flats is 111 square metres. 
He explained that, using this figure, the rebuild would cost (at most) about £265,000. He 
explained this had been worked out using an industry calculator to determine what it would 
cost to rebuild a two-storey property, of that size, comprising four bedrooms (each flat had 
two) and two bathrooms (up to £232,000), plus the cost he had incurred to convert the loft 
(£26,500, plus fees). 
Fairmead didnt respond to Mr Ds concerns about the underinsurance and didnt make any 
offer to settle either of the claims. It later confirmed that it would progress the claim for flat 1, 
and that regarding the claims for flats 2 and 3, it wanted further evidence from Mr D. Mr D 
felt that was unfair as he felt the claim was clear  that the roof had obviously been damaged 
by a storm which had resulted in internal damage. And that this had been evidenced as the 
tenant of flat 2 had tested the shower in flat 3 and couldnt recreate a leak and, in fact, no 
further water had entered either flat 2 or 3 since the roof had been fixed. 
Following a complaint being made to this service, our investigator felt Fairmead hadnt done 
anything wrong. She felt the loss adjuster and surveyor had agreed on the size of the 
property and that the rebuild cost was significantly more than the sum insured. So it was fair, 
in her view, for Fairmead to rely on that detail and say Mr D was underinsured. She didnt 
think there had been any avoidable delays as it had been reasonable for the underinsurance 
to be investigated.   
Mr D said he felt his evidence in respect of the size of the property had been ignored. He 
said he thinks there may have been a typing error in the surveyors report, which could 
potentially have skewed their findings. Mr A said he was most concerned about getting the 
claim for flat 1 paid. The complaint came to me for an ombudsmans consideration.
I felt Fairmead should have looked to settle the claim for flat 1 earlier. So I said it should add 
interest to any settlement paid for that claim. But I felt it had acted fairly and reasonably 
regarding the underinsurance, as well as in respect of the claims for flats 2 and 3. And 
I wasnt minded to say it should pay compensation for upset. 
Aviva said it had nothing further to add. Mr D received my findings but didnt comment on 
them. Mr A said he felt the outcome was reasonable and proportional.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were:
underinsurance
Mr D has presented some detail to challenge Fairmeads view that the property was 
underinsured. But, Im not persuaded, by the evidence he has presented that Fairmeads 
valuation, as put forward by its loss adjuster, is flawed. For the avoidance of doubt, Ive 
discounted the surveyors findings because Fairmead hasnt relied upon them.Mr D has presented architects drawings completed in 2015 of all three floors. He has said it 
is obvious from these that the floor area of the ground and first floor flats is 111 square 
metres. But the drawings dont give totals for the rooms or floor sizes. Later Mr D presented 
plans, which, I understand, he had created from those drawings, which showed the total 
square metre size of each room. There was also a summary page giving the total area for 
each floor. Whilst I appreciate Mr D presenting this detail, Im not sure its persuasive. Some 
room sizes on Mr Ds plan dont seem to match the total of the measurements on the 
architects drawings. And whilst Mr D initially said the architects drawings showed an 
obvious total size for the ground and first floors of 111 square metres (which he used for his 
re-build calculation), the total on the plans Mr D created is 129.6 square metres (67.37 and 
59.53 square metres respectively). So Im not persuaded, from the evidence Mr D has 
presented, what size is of the property and/or flats.
Mr D has presented a rebuild calculation for a two-storey property and says it makes sense 
to use this and then add on the cost of converting the loft space. But, this is based on a size 
of 111 square metres (discussed above) and doesnt allow for things like there being two 
kitchens in the two-storey property (before the converted space in the loft, comprising a 
third kitchen, is added on). Or that the two main floors are self-contained flats. Im also 
mindful that calculating the re-build cost in this way doesnt seem to sit with how Id expect a 
property like this to be re-built. So I think that looking at the cost for re-building in that way 
doesnt present a fair and reasonable assessment of what the most likely re-build value 
would be.
But there is a further issue with looking at this based on the architects plans. Plans like this 
are often accurate  but they show what is, at that moment in time, intended for a property. 
They arent always representative of how a property actually is. So, in my view, the most 
reliable indicator of a rebuild price usually comes from an appropriate expert assessing the 
property in question. 
Fairmeads loss adjuster is, in my view, an appropriate expert. A loss adjuster often 
completes work such as assessing rebuild costs. Theyre familiar with measuring properties, 
taking into account the fixtures of a property and using the industry guides, whilst putting all 
that together to create a rebuild valuation (which invariably refers to the size of the property). 
And Fairmeads loss adjuster did visit the property in person and was, therefore, able to 
measure it and see how, as well as to what standard, it was constructed and finished. From 
there he produced his rebuild valuation. I can assure Mr D that Ive carefully considered the 
evidence he has presented. But, having done so, and for the reasons explained, Im not 
persuaded it shows that Fairmeads loss adjusters calculations are in any way unreliable or 
likely flawed. 
Mr D used to be a property developer and, because this is a let property, the insurance 
policy is a commercial one. As such the relevant legislation to consider is the 
Insurance Act 2016. In line with that it was always up to Mr D, as represented by his broker, 
to make a fair presentation of the risk to Fairmead, both when arranging and renewing cover. 
And I note that the detail provided by the broker to Mr D explains very clearly that the policy 
is based on the sum insured given, which is the rebuild value for the property, and this is a 
major material fact which Mr D was responsible for ensuring was correct. Also that if it was 
wrong, any claim made might be affected. So Mr D knew he should present a correct value, 
but didnt do so. Therefore, in line with the relevant legislation, Fairmead was entitled to act 
as it would have done if the correct information had been given. In this case Farimead has 
shown that it would have charged a higher premium. In that instance the Act then allow 
Fairmead to settle the claim proportionately in line with the portion of the correct premium 
that was paid. This is also reflected in the policy wording that applied to the cover Mr D held. So it seems to me that Fairmead has reasonably shown that Mr D was underinsured. And as 
a result, it has looked to implement a remedy that is both available to it in legislation and 
reflected in its policy wording. Furthermore, which Mr D was clearly warned about at each 
renewal. As such I think Fairmead has acted fairly and reasonably and Im not going to direct 
it to do anything differently.
claims for flats 2 and 3 
A policyholder, when making a claim, generally has to show, at least on the face of it, that 
they have a claim which the policy should respond to. What that means in practice will 
depend upon the specifics of the relevant circumstance. Here I can see there are some 
conflicting views about whether damage to the roof or a leak from the shower might have 
caused water damage. But, due to the fact the resident didnt report the damage when first 
noticed, it isnt clear when any damage to the roof may have occurred. And Mr D has been 
unable to show that there was damage to the roof which was fixed, because a temporary 
repair was done which wasnt billed for and the contractor is unresponsive. And whilst he 
says the tenants have reported no damage since, and that theyve been unable to recreate a 
leak from the shower, that evidence is anecdotal in nature. In the circumstances, I think it 
was entirely reasonable for Fairmead to want more evidence before agreeing to progress a 
claim for storm under the policy. 
Thats not to say there is not a valid claim, I am not assessing the validity of the claim. 
Rather Fairmead has confirmed that the claim wasnt and hasnt been declined, and it has 
asked Mr D for more evidence to consider it. I think that position is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and so the fact that the claims have not progressed to settlement is not, in my 
view, due to any fault of Fairmeads. Therefore, whilst Mr D reports financial and 
non-financial loss as a result of the delay, Fairmead, in my view, is not responsible for those 
losses. Im not going to make any award against it in respect of these claims being delayed.
claim for flat 1
Here the cause of damage was established early on and the detail was shared with 
Fairmead. And the loss adjusters view on underinsurance was also known around the same 
time. Fairmead was entitled to complete further investigations, but it should, I think, have 
also been looking to progress this claim in the meantime because it knew this was a 
potentially valid claim under the policy (unlike the claims for flats 2 and 3 discussed above). 
And if it had progressed it and looked to settle it, that would always, I think, likely have been 
done on the basis, due to the underinsurance, of it paying cash for its proportion of liability 
for repairs. I think a reasonable period for that to all have happened would have been 
six weeks. I cant be sure about the time frame but I think six weeks is a reasonable period 
as that would have allowed ample time for any negotiations over price to proceed, as well as 
time for further quotes to be obtained and assessed. Activity like that is not unusual in a 
situation where an insurer is looking to settle a claim in cash proportionately. And Ive seen 
nothing else that makes me think the settlement (if such is paid) would or should otherwise 
have taken longer. 
So in respect of the claim for flat 1, I think Fairmead did cause an unreasonable delay. I think 
that it should have progressed it and, if it had done (and assuming it ultimately settles it), that 
settlement should have been made by 1 May 2021. Therefore, when settlement for this claim 
is made (assuming it is), Fairmead should add 8% simple interest to anything it pays, applied 
from 1 May 2021 until settlement is made. other consequences of delay (financial and non-financial)
As I understand it, Mr A does not live in flat 1. Nor does Mr D. I understand it would be 
frustrating for them to know the claim remained outstanding through all of this time. 
However, as they dont live in the property, I cant reasonably award compensation to them 
for any upset that the residents might have felt or experienced by either using their home in 
its damaged state, or indeed because they couldnt use it, because of delays. 
Whilst I note Mr D and Mr A say theyd like compensating for alternative accommodation 
costs for the residents, Ive not seen that such were incurred, or that such were incurred due 
Fairmeads delay. And I note that whilst reference was also made in respect of costs 
incurred on a credit card for repairing the property, Mr A has confirmed that no repairs have 
been completed. So Im not persuaded that I can fairly make any award against Fairmead in 
respect of costs incurred for either alternative accommodation or paying for repairs on a 
credit card, due to its delay.
It is also reported that damage occurred to soft furnishings and the like in flat 1, on account 
of mould growth. But I havent seen that Mr A is responsible for providing the soft furnishings 
at the property. And, even if he is, Mr A has indicated that he was always happy to try and 
more ahead with repairing the flat, but that in November 2021 it still hadnt been repaired as 
another contractor had let him down. Im not persuaded that any delay by Fairmead has 
caused Mr A to suffer a loss regarding damage to the soft furnishings at the property. 
poor communication
Mr D has reported that communication with Fairmead was poor. Hes explained that several 
of his emails and letters were ignored. Whilst I can see that would be frustrating, it isnt 
apparent to me exactly which correspondence he feels was ignored. And I note that by the 
end of March 2021, Fairmead was dealing with Mr Ds concerns as a complaint. I cant look 
at how an insurer handles a complaint (as opposed to a claim) as the rules which govern our 
service dont extend to that. And the claims were only made in February 2021. So if, as Mr D 
has said, between February and the end of March 2021, Fairmead, including its agents, 
ignored communication from Mr D, Im not persuaded that requires an award of 
compensation. Im not convinced that any delay was caused due to a lack of communication 
and sometimes frustrations like this can occur when dealing with a financial business. This 
isnt something Im minded, in these circumstances, to award compensation for.
As the parties have not raised any objection to my provisional findings, with Mr A agreeing 
with them, Ive no need to add to, or change, them. They are now the findings of this, my 
final decision.  
Putting things right
I require Fairmead, if it settles the claim for flat 1, to add 8% simple interest* per annum to 
the sum it pays, applied from 1 May 2021 until settlement is made. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Fairmead to take off tax from this interest. If asked, it 
must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint as far as Ive explained above. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited 
to provide the redress set out above at putting things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman