DRN-3183211
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money she lost to an investment 
scam. 
What happened
Around September 2019, Mrs Y was cold called by a representative of a company Ill call F. 
She was persuaded to invest as the representative told her a lot of people were making 
money from as little as £250. Mrs Y paid F £250 using her Visa debit card  linked to her 
HSBC current account. 
Around December 2019, Mrs Y tried to withdraw her funds but was told that her request had 
to be authorised by Fs finance team first. No funds were received and Mrs Y was told that 
shed need to upgrade her account and pay more funds into it before she could access it. 
Mrs Y was persuaded to obtain lending from a third-party business and borrow money from 
friends in order to deposit more funds onto her trading account. From November 2019 to 
February 2020, Mrs Y paid F a total of £54,950 using her HSBC Visa debit card. Around 
March 2020, Mrs Y tried to withdraw her funds again but F told her she needed to pay 
£1,500 before they could release the funds. 
Mrs Y called HSBC to explain she thought she might have fallen victim to a scam and asked 
whether she should pay F the money they were asking for. HSBC advised Mrs Y she 
shouldnt as it sounds like a scam and Mrs Y didnt pay any further funds. She asked HSBC 
to help her with chargeback claims to recover her money. She also mentioned she had 
previously fallen victim to an investment scam that shed reported to HSBC. 
After some delays, HSBC concluded it couldnt help her with chargeback claims as she 
didnt have the evidence required by Visa. It acknowledged it caused delays and paid Mrs Y 
£250. Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mrs Y referred her complaint to this office. 
One of our Investigators concluded first of all that F was not a scam business as it was 
regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySEC) with passporting 
rights through the FCA at the time of Mrs Ys payments. She acknowledged the FCA had 
since removed Fs passporting rights but explained this was after Mrs Y made all of her 
payments and HSBC had no obligation to protect her from a bad bargain.
 
Mrs Y didnt agree and she asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint and the 
complaint was therefore passed to me for determination. 
I wrote to HSBC and Mrs Y to explain that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had called 
F a scam when it published a notice about removing its passporting rights in June 2020, so I 
was persuaded it was a scam. The notice appeared after Mrs Y made all of her payments, 
so I dont think HSBC could have known F were scammers when Mrs Y made her payments. 
But I thought the operation of Mrs Ys account had changed significantly to warrant 
intervention from HSBC. Mrs Y made three consecutive card payments of £5,000 on 3 
February 2020. I explained all the payments to F prior to this date werent unusual when 
considering the normal operation of Mrs Ys account. I felt by the third payment on 3 
February 2020, HSBC should have intervened and had a conversation with Mrs Y. I think if it 
had, she would have explained the purpose of the payments were to unlock her ability to 
withdraw funds and she was under pressure to pay. I think HSBC would have been as 
sufficiently concerned that Mrs Y was potentially falling victim to a scam as it was when it 
advised Mrs Y of this in March 2020 (when she gave a similar explanation about the purpose 
of her intended payment). Whilst HSBC werent to know that F were to have their 
passporting rights shortly removed, I think the nature of the payments and her interactions 
with F would have put HSBC on alert to provide her with a meaningful warning. As Mrs Y 
listened to HSBCs advice in March 2020 and made no further payments to F, I think she 
would have followed the same advice earlier. I suggested that HSBC refunds the payments 
Mrs Y made after the third payment on 3 February 2020 together with compensatory 
interest. 
HSBC agreed and said it would refund £37,000 and it would also pay 8% simple interest per 
year, from the dates of the respective payments, to the date of settlement. 
Mrs Y didnt accept the offer. She said F and HSBC impacted her job, health and caused a 
significant amount of stress. She invited me to obtain further information from her about F if I 
wished to but believed it should be looked at again.
 
I tried to call Mrs Y to speak with her but she did not return my call. Our Investigator emailed 
Mrs Y and invited her to contact her after her call attempts were unsuccessful and she did 
not reply. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part and Ill explain why. 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment trading scam is in fact 
a scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses.  
Certain high-risk investment traders may have promoted these products using sales 
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who 
lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud; i.e. dishonestly making 
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a 
gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud 
Act 2006).  
In simpler terms, some merchants may have used sales and promotional methods that could 
be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses theyve incurred  but this does 
not always amount to fraud. 
When considering this for Mrs Ys case, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive 
searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators. And the FCA (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, which is in place 
to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being 
fraudulent.   Upon checking both of these, its my understanding that F had no adverse information 
reported about them at the time Mrs Y authorised her payments to them. What I have noted 
is that they were regulated by CySEC at the time of Mrs Ys payments with passporting 
rights through the FCA - which meant they could offer services to UK customers. Ive noted 
the FCA issued a supervisory notice to F on 28 May 2020 and on 1 June 2020 removed its 
passporting rights concluding F (amongst others) had operated scams. The FCA removed 
Fs ability to provided services to UK customers. 
However, this note was published after Mrs Y made all of her payments so I do not think 
HSBC could reasonably have known  based on the recipient details alone  that F was 
operating a scam. So I need to consider whether HSBC ought to have suspected that Mrs 
Ys account was being subjected to unusual or uncharacteristic activity. 
Were Mrs Ys transactions unusual or uncharacteristic?
As our Investigator pointed out, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do 
have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due 
diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering. 
Prior to Mrs Ys three payments of £5,000 to F on 3 February 2020, the highest shed paid F 
in a single transaction was £4,000 on 7 January 2020  which was also the highest amount 
paid to F on any single day. But I dont think this payment in isolation, was all that unusual 
when compared to Mrs Ys previous spend. Other payments to F were less than £1,000 and 
were more sporadic. 
I think three payments of £5,000 on a single day to F were unusual and HSBC ought to have 
intervened on the third payment. I think if HSBC had intervened, Mrs Y would have disclosed 
that she was paying more money onto her trading account with F in order to unlock her 
ability to withdraw. She would have likely also explained that she was under pressure to pay 
and had borrowed money to do so. Whilst HSBC probably would have noted that F was 
regulated by CySEC with passporting rights through the FCA, I think the nature of what Mrs 
F was being asked to do would have concerned HSBC enough to provide a meaningful 
warning  not least because it did this the following month when presented with what I 
consider to be the same scenario. I think HSBC could have prevented further losses from 
this point. 
I can see HSBC considered processing chargeback claims for Mrs Y but she didnt have the 
required evidence for it to do so. The chargeback dispute reason code (13.5) required Mrs 
Y to provide dated evidence that she had available balances in her trading account on the 
same day that withdrawal requests were made  and that these requests werent honoured. 
As Mrs Y didnt have this evidence, I dont think HSBC acted unfairly by choosing not to 
process her claims for her. 
HSBC paid £250 compensation for the delays Mrs Y experienced and I think this was fair 
and reasonable under the circumstances. I acknowledge the distress Mrs Y suffered as a 
result of this scam but I think the majority of her distress was caused as a result of the 
actions of the cruel scammers. I think HSBC has acknowledged its mistakes and I think the 
compensation it awarded to Mrs Y was fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partly uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank plc should 
refund to Mrs Y all of her stolen payments from the third payment of £5,000 on 3 February 
2020.  This totals £37,000. 
HSBC should add interest to that sum (less any tax lawfully deductible) at 8% simple, per 
year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman