DRN-3120714
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited changed its decision to write off 
her car following a claim made on her motor insurance policy. She wants it to pay its original 
settlement offer. 
What happened
Mrs H was involved in a collision with a delivery van and reported this to Skyfire. Skyfire 
said, from the information provided, that Mrs Hs car would be a total loss. It offered her 
£2,735 in settlement, after deducting the cars salvage value as Mrs H wanted to retain her 
car. But Skyfire said the car would need to be assessed as the policy had been taken out 
less than 30 days earlier. After reviewing images of the car, Skyfires engineer said the car 
was repairable. Skyfire offered Mrs H £150 compensation for its level of communication. But 
Mrs H was unhappy with this.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought 
Skyfire was obliged to change its decision after assessing the damage to the car. But she 
thought it hadnt warned Mrs H that its decision could change. And she thought it should 
have told Mrs H earlier that it had decided to repair her car. She thought Skyfire should 
arrange to repair Mrs Hs car and pay Mrs H a further £125 (£275 in total) for not managing 
her expectations. 
Skyfire agreed to do this. But Mrs H was unhappy as she had already made plans for the 
settlement from Skyfire. She thought Skyfires decision was unjust and it shouldnt change its 
decision. Mrs H asked for an ombudsmans review, so her complaint has com to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Hs frustration and disappointment with Skyfires change of decision. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I think its agreed that Mrs H initially wanted her car repaired but was told it was a total loss 
and Skyfire gave her a valuation for her car. Mrs H tried to negotiate to have the car repaired 
by the other drivers insurer, but without success. So she went back to Skyfire which gave 
her a valuation less the salvage cost. 
Mrs H said she then queried the valuation and Skyfire asked her to send in photographs of 
her car for assessment. But, from the phone recording, I think Skyfire had said it needed her 
car on site for an engineers inspection as her policy had been taken out less than 30 days 
earlier. Skyfire later asked Mrs H to send in photographs to validate her claim. Skyfires 
email to Mrs H said the images were required to categorise her car. 
An engineer reviewed these photographs and decided that the car was repairable. And so 
the total loss offer was withdrawn. 
I can see that under Settling your Claim on page 17 of the policy booklet, it states:
The insurer will do one of the following.
 If your car is damaged, the insurer will repair the damage
 Replace your car if it is a total loss
 Settle your claim by paying you money if your car is a total loss
I can see that Total Loss is defined in the policy booklet as:
When the insurer considers the car to be beyond economic repair.
I think the engineers report established that the car wasnt beyond economic repair and so 
not a total loss according to the policys terms and conditions. I think Skyfire was then 
obliged to repair the car to minimise the claim costs. And therefore I cant require it to 
declare Mrs Hs car a total loss.
Skyfire had already waived the £150 policy excess. And, when Mrs H complained about the 
change of decision, it said she could use a repairer of her choice without paying an 
additional excess. I think it should honour this offer if Mrs H accepts it. 
Skyfire also offered Mrs H £150 compensation for its level of service. I agree with the 
investigator that Skyfire should have warned Mrs H when she first reported the claim that the 
decision to not repair her car might change after the car was inspected. I think Mrs H was 
caused avoidable frustration and upset. And I think a further £125 compensation for not 
managing Mrs Hs expectations is fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published 
guidance. Mrs H said she hadnt cashed Skyfires first cheque. So this may need to be 
reissued. 
Putting things right
I require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to repair Mrs Hs car and to pay her £275 (in 
total) compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service, as its 
already agreed to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman