DRN-2434073
The complaint
Ms D complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
declined two claims she made on her pet insurance and added exclusions to her policy. 
What happened
In October 2015 Ms D took out pet insurance for her dog, Q, with Red Sands. This was 
administered by another company who Ill refer to as A. For ease, in my decision Ill refer to 
Red Sands when talking about the actions and decisions of A. 
Unfortunately, in March 2020 Q required treatment for a condition called aural haematoma 
which is a burst blood vessel on the flap of the ear. So, Ms D put in a claim. 
After reviewing the claim, Red Sands declined it. It said this fell under the pre-existing 
condition exclusion outlined in the policy terms and conditions. It noted Q had had otitis 
externa (ear infections) in 2014. It said that had it been notified of this at the start of the 
policy it would have applied a clear exclusion in relation to conditions like this. Red Sands 
retrospectively added an exclusion to the policy which stated it would not cover all claims 
with respect to Allergies of any Causeandall claims with respect to The Ears.
Ms D didnt think this was fair and so she complained. Red Sands stood by the decision to 
decline the claim, but it amended the exclusion to excludes cover on all claims with respect 
to The Ears, removing the exclusion relating to allergies. It noted that whilst chronic ear 
infections can indicate an underlying allergy there was nothing in Qs veterinary records to 
show this had been considered by the vets treating him prior to the policy starting. 
In August 2020 Q was given injections for allergies and Ms D put in a further claim. 
After reviewing the claim, Red Sands similarly declined it under the pre-existing condition 
exclusion. It noted Q had a history of skin conditions including pyoderma in August 2014 and 
pruritus in December 2014. It said that had it been notified of this at the start of the policy it 
would have applied a clear exclusion in relation to conditions like this. It added a further 
exclusion to Ms Ds policy which was excludes cover on all claims with respect to Skin 
Conditions. 
Ms D then brought her complaints to our service. In relation to the March 2020 claim, she 
noted that the aural haematoma couldnt be linked to the otitis externa. In relation to the 
August 2020 claim, Ms D said the treatment given to Q was to ease symptoms for an 
unknown allergy which wasnt excluded under the policy terms and conditions. 
Red Sands told us that when the policy was taken out Ms D had been asked if Q had ever 
visited the vet for anything other than routine vaccinations. But Ms D didnt tell it about any of 
Qs other appointments.
Our investigator looked into things and was of the view that Red Sands had acted 
reasonably in the circumstances. 
Ms D disagreed, noting that allergies were not an exclusion in the policy. She provided 
evidence to show Q had allergies and explained that this appeared to be the ultimate cause 
of the claims. So, the complaint has now been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was it fair to apply retrospective exclusions?
Ms Ds policy does have a pre-existing condition exclusion for any claim or costs for or 
relating to a pre-existing condition(s) or for an accident, injury or illness that first showed 
clinical signs at any time before the commencement date of the policy or within 14 days of 
the commencement date.  
But Red Sands has also said it should have been told certain things about Qs veterinary 
history when the policy was taken out. And it thinks it would have added clear exclusions 
from the outset had it been given this information. So what Red Sands is saying here is that 
Ms D made a misrepresentation. 
Ive taken into account the relevant legislation here which is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
A misrepresentation can be saying something that is untrue or misleading or failing to 
provide information that the consumer ought to have known was relevant to the insurer. If a 
consumer doesnt take reasonable care to answer questions accurately, CIDRA sets out the 
remedies available to the insurer.
 
There are a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care, including if the questions asked at application were clear and specific. 
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the 
misrepresentation would have changed anything and whether it was made carelessly, 
deliberately or recklessly. Where the qualifying misrepresentation is carelessly made, CIDRA 
says the insurer can change the policy terms to align with what it would have offered had it 
had all of the relevant information.
When Ms D took out the policy in 2015, she was sent a three page policy schedule 
document, in addition to the detailed terms and conditions of her policy and a key facts 
document. The policy schedule outlined the cover she had and the cost limits. Part of this 
document read:
DECLARATION STATEMENT: In proposing your pet insurance policy you confirm that:
A. Your pet has not suffered from any disease/illness/injury or undergone veterinary 
treatment and is not currently showing signs of any disease/illness/injury, other than any 
claims that A are dealing with or have dealt with or any disease/illness/injury you have 
notified A of and that they have confirmed back in writing to you.
B. Your pet has not been involved in an incident or accident involving a third party, other 
than any claims A are dealing with or have dealt with; or any incident/accidents you have 
notified Claims of and who have confirmed back in writing to you.
C. Your pet is not used for breeding purposes.
D. Your pet is not a working dog or used for hunting of any kind.If you are unable to confirm the above, please telephone us
The document then provided a contact telephone number for Red Sands and it noted that 
Red Sands reserved the right not to accept cover.
Ive seen no evidence to suggest Ms D contacted Red Sands to advise it that Q had 
received veterinary treatment. And yet having reviewed what Ive been provided with of Qs 
veterinary history, its clear that he had visited for various reasons aside from what could 
reasonably be considered to be routine appointments.
I think the questions from Red Sands are clear and specific. Ms D told us she didnt recall 
being asked if Q had been to the vets. She noted that a lot of customers dont read the small 
print in the body of policies. But Im satisfied these questions werent buried in the policy 
terms and conditions but were sufficiently prominent on the policy schedule. So, I think it was 
fair for Red Sands to say Ms D failed to take reasonable care here.
Ive then looked at what would have happened had Ms D told Red Sands about Qs visits to 
the vet. Red Sands has said that had it known the details of the visits it would have added 
the following exclusions:
all claims with respect to The Ears
all claims with respect to Skin Conditions 
Having reviewed both Qs veterinary history and the relevant underwriting here, Im satisfied 
that this is what it would have done. I appreciate that Ms D has told us that the vet now 
thinks the cause of Qs skin and ear problems was allergies. But this isnt something that 
Red Sands would have been aware of when it first offered Ms D the policy in 2015. So, this 
isnt something I would take into account here.
As an aside, I dont think it was fair that Red Sands initially added an exclusion for allergies, 
but I can see its since removed this. So, I think its done enough to rectify its error here.
Was it fair to decline the claims?
Red Sands has said that both of Ms Ds claims are excluded under the terms and conditions 
of her policy. 
The first claim related to an aural hematoma which is condition affecting the ear. So, Im 
satisfied this isnt covered taking into account the all claims with respect to The Ears 
exclusion. I appreciate Ms D now has evidence this was caused by an allergy, but I dont 
think that the underlying cause of the condition is relevant. Ultimately, whatever the cause, 
the claim related to treatment for a condition impacting Qs ear. So, I think Red Sands was 
fairly able to decline this. 
Ms Ds second claim for Q was for allergy injections. From the veterinary notes Ive seen 
these were trialled due to skin irritation that Q was experiencing. The veterinary notes in 
relation to this mention the treatment given was for atopic dermatitis. And Im satisfied this is 
a skin condition. Whilst I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms D, I also think it 
was fair for Red Sands to decline this claim under the all claims with respect to Skin 
Conditions exclusion. I appreciate the vets now understand that an allergy is the underlying 
cause of the skin condition, but this doesnt change the fact that the claim was made 
because of a skin condition that required treatment.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman