DRN-4054213
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain AWP P&C SA unfairly declined their home emergency insurance 
claim.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr and Mrs W made a claim, for a water leak, against their AWP home 
emergency policy. The insurer relied on an exclusion to decline the claim  the policy 
excluded any repairs requiring trace and access work.   
In response to a complaint, AWP repeated its reason for declining the claim. Mr and Mrs W 
then complained the exclusion wasnt in their policy when they originally took it out. They 
said they hadnt been informed of its inclusion when they renewed their cover. In response, 
AWP said they had been sent policy documents at renewal and it was their responsibility to 
check the cover met their requirements. Mr and Mrs W werent satisfied, so came to this 
service. To resolve their complaint they would like AWP to repair the leak and shower. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She felt AWP had declined the claim fairly. She 
thought it should have done more to let Mr and Mrs W know about the trace and access 
exclusion. But she wasnt persuaded, had they known about the change, they would have 
found a policy that would pay out in the claim circumstances. So she was of the opinion they 
hadnt lost out financially. Finally she said AWP should consider Mr and Mrs Ws concern its 
engineer had damaged their shower. They didnt accept the investigators assessment. They 
asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr and Mrs W or AWP provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key 
or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
Its accepted trace and access would be required to repair the leak. The policy terms, at the 
time of the claim, do exclude any repairs requiring that process. So I cant say AWPs 
decision to decline the claim was unfair or unreasonable.  
It does seem the exclusion was added to the policy when it renewed. Id expect any 
significant changes to the terms of cover to be made clear to policyholders. I cant see the 
change was highlighted or clearly explained in any documentation provided to Mr and Mrs W 
at renewal. But even if I felt AWPs documentation should have highlighted the change more 
clearly, I wouldnt uphold the complaint. 
This service considers the impact of a firms failures on their customers. Having considered 
the matter I cant say its most likely Mr and Mr W lost out financially. Thats because Im not 
persuaded, if they had been made aware of the change, they would have looked for and 
found an alternative policy that would have paid their claim. Our investigator said it was 
unlikely Mr and Mrs W would have found a home emergency policy that would have covered 
their claim. They havent provided anything to show such a policy was available  or that 
they would have taken it out.  
Its possible Mr and Mrs W may have gone without any home emergency cover  saving 
some money spent on premiums. I accept they cancelled the cover, as a point of principal, 
after the claim was declined and they were made aware of the exclusion. But that was after 
experiencing a rejected claim. It doesnt necessarily mean they wouldnt have accepted a 
renewal had they known of the change. Overall I havent seen enough to make me think the 
change in cover would have been so significant for Mr and Mrs W, at the time of renewal, 
that they wouldnt have renewed the policy.  
Mr and Mrs W have said AWPs engineer damaged their shower. I havent seen anything to 
show the insurer has responded to this part of their complaint. And Mr and Mrs W havent 
provided anything to this service to support what they say  for example a description or 
photo of the damage. For those reasons I havent considered that part of their complaint 
here. Id expect AWP to respond to anything Mr and Mrs W provide in support of their 
position.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman