DRN-2186618
The complaint
Ms P holds Pepperstone Limited (PL) responsible for what she describes as a serious fraud 
committed by a third party within her trading account. She says PL should have identified 
and/or prevented the third partys fraudulent and unauthorised access into her account and 
the third partys unauthorised closure of her open positions  which caused a very significant 
financial loss. She seeks compensation for that loss from PL.
What happened
Ms P says she opened the account in October 2018 and subsequently received (and 
accepted) an offer from the third party with regards to a trading alert service. She says a few 
months thereafter the third party asked for her trading account credentials in order to gain 
access into the account; she says she declined the request but was then sent a trading 
indicator software program by the third party. 
Ms P believes this software program was the way in which the third party conducted 
phishing activities to gain unauthorised access into her account  and to close the relevant 
positions in August 2019. She also believes this was probably the third partys spiteful 
response to her refusal to share her account credentials.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He empathised with the significant financial 
loss Ms P has incurred but did not consider that the complaint should be upheld. He 
explained the need for evidence that PL behaved in a way that resulted in her loss and he 
concluded that no such evidence exists. He noted that the third party that has been 
mentioned was completely unrelated to PL; and that whilst Ms P says she did not share her 
account details it remains the case that she was responsible for the account.
Ms P did not accept this outcome. She took the view that the investigator had not given 
weight to important elements of her case and she asked for a review. The investigator said 
he had made several requests for information from Ms P without a response from her. He 
referred the matter to an ombudsman and invited Ms P to submit any further evidence she 
wished to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons he gave. I also note that, despite his invitation to Ms P, no 
additional information or evidence appears to have been submitted by her.
I join the investigator in empathising with Ms P in relation to the financial loss she has 
referred to. Nevertheless, her assertion that PL is responsible for that loss requires 
information and evidence that establishes, on balance, such a responsibility. As the 
investigator said, available evidence does not do this.
Ms Ps presentation of the facts concedes that her engagement with the third party was 
remote to PL  PL had no direct or indirect involvement in that respect. This appears to 
establish that PL had/has no responsibility for the actions of the third party  so if, as Ms P 
alleges, the third party gained unauthorised access into her account then PL had/has no 
responsibility for that action. 
The safeguarding of Ms Ps account details (including logging-in details) was her 
responsibility, not PLs  PLs terms for its trading platform service confirm this  and I have 
not seen evidence of any flaw or failing in PLs trading platform that contributed to the 
alleged unauthorised access. It is also not the case that PL was given any sort of notice 
about the potential of an unauthorised access into the account or that such access had 
occurred.
The next point to determine is whether (or not) PL ought reasonably to have been monitoring 
Ms Ps account to detect the alleged unauthorised access or the unauthorised trading. Her 
account was based on an execution only service, so PL played no role in managing or 
monitoring the trading activities within it and was not obliged to play such roles. PLs terms of 
service provide that it is entitled to act upon trading orders in an account which are received 
through usage of the account holders username, account number and user ID/password  
and that such orders will be deemed to have requisite authority.
The effect of the phishing and fraudulent activities Ms P believes the third party used to gain 
access into her account would have been that any orders made in the account through such 
means would have been deemed, by PL, to have requisite authority. They would have been 
orders made from within the account  made after access achieved on the basis of her 
username, account number and password. I have not seen evidence of anything that ought 
reasonably to have indicated to PL that security had been breached in the account or that 
the trading activities that closed Ms Ps positions were unauthorised.
In some cases, consideration could be given to a firms overall safeguarding role over the 
security of an account, but I am not persuaded this applies favourably in Ms Ps case. There 
is no evidence that a defect in PLs security arrangements  for the account  existed at the 
relevant time; but there is evidence that the security breach probably resulted from Ms Ps 
independent engagement with the third party and from her use of the software program she 
obtained from the third party. I have not seen evidence that PL was aware of or involved in 
either at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman