DRN-3729200
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I has complained that Santander UK plc rejected their claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Background
Mr and Mrs I bought solar panels for their home in 2012. They paid for it with a Santander 
debit card. In 2022, after the company who had sold them the solar panels had gone into 
liquidation, Mr and Mrs I complained to Santander that the panels had been mis-sold.
Santander did not agree that it was liable for that. It added that it was too late to raise a 
chargeback after ten years.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that section 75 of the Act 
applied to Mr and Mrs Is purchase, and so Santander had not done anything wrong by 
declining to refund them. Mr and Mrs I did not agree, and so the case was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because section 75 of the Act does not apply to debit card payments.
It follows that section 75 does not make Santander liable for anything the supplier of the 
panels did at the point of sale. And I dont think it would be fair and reasonable of me to still 
hold Santander responsible for any mis-sale by the supplier in circumstances where section 
75 does not make it liable  even though the supplier is no longer trading.
An alternative remedy which does apply to debit card payments is chargeback. But there are 
strict time limits for raising a chargeback claim, and they had long expired by the time Mr and 
Mrs I approached Santander. So I dont blame Santander for not raising a chargeback.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
