DRN-3113556
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund £180 he says wasnt 
dispensed by a cash machine (ATM).
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
On 4 December 2020, Mr B says £180 he tried to withdraw from an ATM wasnt dispensed.  
Mr B contacted Santander about this, which provisionally credited the £180 to his account.  
However, following an investigation, Santander re-debited this amount.   Mr B raised a 
complaint about this  including the amount of time it took Santander to pre-credit his 
account.  He also complained that Santander told him  when he says he called it on 4 
December 2020  to wait a week before raising his ATM dispute. 
Santander says it has considered evidence from the ATM owner showing that the £180 was 
dispensed.  For this reason, it re-debited the £180 provisional credit from Mr Bs account.  
Santander also says having checked its records, it can find no evidence of a call taking place 
on 4 December 2020.  So, Santander says the ATM dispute was first raised on 11 
December 2020, and that it pre-credited Mr Bs account within the correct timescales.
Unhappy with Santander, Mr B referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it.  She said having 
listened to the call recordings provided, none of Santanders advisers were able to find notes 
of the 4 December 2020 call Mr B said took place.  She held 11 December 2020 to be the 
date Mr B first notified Santander about the ATM dispute; and that it pre-credited his account 
within the timescales she expected.  Our investigator also held, based on the technical 
evidence she had seen, that it was more likely than not, that the ATM dispensed the £180.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed 
again.  As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail 
than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If there is 
a submission Ive not addressed, it isnt because Ive ignored the point.  Its simply because 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this complaint.
Having considered all the information and evidence provided  including call recordings  I 
havent seen anything which supports that a telephone call between Mr B and Santander 
took place on 4 December 2020.  For this reason, I cant fairly say that this call did indeed 
occur.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Santander was first made aware of the ATM dispute on 11 
December 2020.  It follows then that in my view, Santander provisionally credited Mr Bs 
account (on 15 December 2020) within the timescales it said it would.
Ive considered the technical evidence from the ATM owner in this case carefully.  Having 
done so, Im satisfied, on balance, that the £180 was dispensed on the day in question.  
Moreover, I havent seen anything to suggest the funds might have been retracted by the 
ATM, as it balanced correctly.
So, taking all the above factors together  Im satisfied that Santander has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.  So, I will not be asking it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman