DRN-1409642
 
The complaint
Miss S complains that AXA France IARD (AXA)  mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 What happened
Miss S took out a store card with AXA in 1997. At the same time she bought a PPI policy 
which would have helped cover the repayments on the card if she couldnt work due to an 
accident, sickness or redundancy. It also provided life cover for the balance and purchase 
protection.
Miss S originally complained that nothing was mentioned about the PPI during her 
application for the card. She says that the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent. 
The adjudicator thought that Miss Ss complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss S disagrees, so 
her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ss 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss S first complained that the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent. She said 
During this application nothing was highlighted or mentioned about PPI and I had no idea 
what I had taken out. However, after the adjudicator provided their initial view Miss S 
responded with As a nave young adult I was led to believe that I wouldnt be eligible for the 
store credit if I did not take out the protection.
Clearly, both statements cant be true.
AXA has provided a copy of Miss Ss store card application form. Theres a separate section 
for PPI which offers a clear choice about whether to take it or not. Theres a tick in the box to 
say Miss S wanted it. Other boxes offering other products have been left blank. Miss S has 
signed this form. 
The PPI appeared on Miss Ss credit card statement each month. If she hadnt agreed to 
take it I think shed have queried it when she saw it.
On balance, I think its likely Miss S bought the PPI knowing she had a choice about it.
AXA didnt provide Miss S with a personal recommendation about the PPI, so it didnt have 
to take steps to make sure it was right for her. But it did have to make sure she had enough information about it to make her own decision. I dont think AXA did this. Theres very little 
information about the PPI on the application form. But this doesnt mean I should 
automatically uphold Miss Ss complaint. I have to think about how she might have acted if 
she did have all the information. 
Looking at Miss Ss circumstances at the time of sale I dont think Miss S would have acted 
differently. I say this because I think the PPI was suitable for her because:
Miss S was eligible for the PPI and wouldnt have been affected by any terms that 
might have made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those 
related to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Miss S was only entitled to statutory sick pay. The PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this for as long as she was off sick or until the balance was paid off. So it 
offered a useful benefit;
Miss S was only entitled to statutory redundancy pay and she didnt have any 
savings. So, again, the PPI would have been helpful and would have left any 
redundancy pay to cover other uninsured expenses;
The cost of the policy was greater than some other PPI policies on sale around the 
same time, but it offered a commensurately greater benefit. 
So I dont think Miss S lost out as a result of anything AXA did wrong. 
My final decision
Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint so it follows that AXA France IARD doesnt have to pay 
any compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman