DRN-3406413
The complaint
Ms S complains Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined her claim on her home 
insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Ageas involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Ageas.
What happened
On 2 December 2021 Ms S made a claim on her home insurance policy after a bedroom 
ceiling collapsed. She said the damage had been caused by a leak from her roof, after a 
recent storm.
During the call with Ageas Ms S said she was not aware if there was damage to the roof. 
She said there was moss on the roof so she couldnt see if any tiles were missing. Ms S 
confirmed no works had been done to the roof since she had lived at the house since 1989. 
She confirmed the gutters and downpipes were clean.
An emergency roofer came out and did a temporary fix. 
Ageas looked into Ms Ss claim and it was declined. It said there had been no storm 
conditions present at the time and the damage had occurred gradually over time and not 
from a one-off event. It said this type of damage was excluded under her policy and she was 
not covered for loss or damage resulting from wear, tear and depreciation. 
As Ms S was not happy with Ageas, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and agreed the 
weather records from around the date the claim was made, showed there were no storm 
conditions, so he didnt think Ageas had unfairly declined her claim for storm damage.
As Ms S is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S said the roofer that came out to look at her roof after her ceiling collapsed, pointed out 
the damage was probably caused by the recent storm. He said a roof tile was cracked and 
this had allowed rain to leak in and build up weight that then made the bedroom ceiling 
collapse. The roofer said the roof needed re battening and a new membrane. 
I looked at Ms S buildings insurance policy and can see that storm damage is covered. 
When we consider complaints about claims as a result of storm damage we approach them 
in a similar manner. 
There are three conditions that need to be met before we can say that a business should 
deal with a claim for storm damage. Those conditions are:
1) Was there a storm?
I have considered all the information presented and having looked at all the evidence I can 
see that there was no wind or rain that would be considered as a storm between 26th 
November and 1 December 2021.There was evidence of some moderate rain and wind, 
although not at storm level. I am confident that the weather reports are of a reliable source.
2) Is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
The damage to the roof was not consistent with rain damage and there had been no strong 
winds recorded so I am in agreement that Ageass decision to not accept that the external 
damage was related to a storm was correct. Ms S said she had not had any repairs or 
maintenance undertaken on her roof since she bought her property in 1989.
3)Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
No, as there were no storm conditions identified.  
I am satisfied Ms Ss claim for storm damage to her roof was farily declined by Ageas.
I have considered if the damage could be considered under other sections of Ms Ss home 
insurance policy. 
Ms S said she had not had any repairs or maintenance undertaken on her roof since she 
bought her property in 1989. 
I think on the balance of probability, during the years that have passed since 1989 and 2021, 
it is likely there will have been an element of wear and tear to the roof. This type of damage 
is not covered under the terms of the policy.
The policy says;
What is not insured
Damage caused by:
oWear tear or deterioration
I looked to see if the internal water damage may be considered under accidental damage, 
but on review of Ms Ss policy I found that this cover was not in place so a claim for internal 
damage would not be covered under her policy.
I acknowledge that Ms S will have no doubt been stressed and anxious during the time after
the ceiling leak started as such circumstances are bound to be upsetting. I also understand 
she has had a significant financial outlay as she appointed a roofer in early 2022 and the 
roof to the front of her house has now been replaced. 
Unfortunately after careful consideration of the above three conditions and the other 
evidence supplied, I think Ageas have fairly declined Ms Ss claim as no storm conditions 
were identified in the area near her house at the time the leak occurred. 
Therefore, I do not uphold Ms Ss complaint and think the claim for strorm damage to her 
roof was declined fairly by Ageas.My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman