DRN-2908868
The complaint
Mrs E has complained that a broker A Plan Holdings mis-sold a caravan insurance policy to
her. Mrs E made a theft claim to her insurer which was declined.
What happened
Mrs E bought a caravan insurance policy through the broker A-Plan which started in
December 2014. Mrs E subsequently renewed her policy through A-Plan up to and including
December 2019.
Just before the 2019 renewal date, Mrs E changed the level of cover from new for old to
market value. The insurer changed Mrs Es policy and A-Plan sent Mrs E updated renewal
documents.
In May 2020 Mrs E reported the theft of her caravan from a caravan park. A Loss Adjuster
(LA) who interviewed Mrs E reported that the caravans tracker device had expired before
renewal  and that Mrs E said shed advised A-Plan of this at the time. As the insurer
required a tracker device to be in place under the caravan, it declined Mrs Es claim.
Mrs Es son on her behalf raised a complaint with A-Plan. He said his mother had told A-
Plan the tracker device had expired. 
A-Plan said Mrs E hadnt told it the tracker had expired. And as it had set out the 
endorsement under the policy in the renewal documents, A-Plan didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs Es son brought the complaint to us. Our investigator thought A-Plan had acted
reasonably when it sold the policy in 2014. But he thought it should have asked Mrs E more
questions when she made the change at renewal in 2019 to check the suitability of the
policy. If A-Plan had done this, it would have come to light that the tracker had expired. The
investigator also thought the endorsement should have been more prominent in the policy
documents A-Plan sent to Mrs E. So he recommended the complaint be upheld and A-Plan
should meet the claim, paying interest on the settlement.
Mrs Es son accepted the investigators findings. 
A-Plan didnt agree. It says it set out the endorsement in the policy schedule and Statement 
of Fact and did so since 2014. It renewed Mrs Es policy correctly and in line with the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance. It arranged for Mrs Es policy to be changed  
the remaining terms and conditions didnt change and so it isnt responsible for Mrs Es 
decision not to disclose that the tracker had expired.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 June 2021. I thought A-Plan hadnt done anything wrong. 
So I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. But I asked both parties to make any new 
representations before I made a final decision. 
A-Plan accepted my provisional decision. Mrs Es son didnt agree with my provisional 
decision. In summary he says A-Plan should have asked the right questions at renewal and 
he believes some of the wording is misleading. He says it was a new policy and so it should 
have been treated as such. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A-Plan has provided recordings of key calls between it and Mrs E. When it sold the policy to
Mrs E in November 2014, the agent explained to Mrs E the requirement to have a tracker
device attached to the caravan alongside other security requirements. The agent also
explained to Mrs E that if the tracker expires, she should let it know as this may affect her
cover.
From 2014 to 2019 the requirement under Mrs Es policy to have a tracking device attached
to the caravan didnt change. Her policy documents set out under the schedule and
Statement of Fact the following in 2019 and in previous years:
Security  Proactive Tracker
Under the section Your Demands and Needs it reads:
Special Conditions/Limitations - Any endorsements applicable to your policy are
attached to the policy schedule followed by:
IMPORTANT - For the full wordings of special conditions, exclusions, limitations and
all other conditions, please refer to the Policy Document and Schedule. Most policies
contain certain conditions, sometimes called warranties or subjectivities.
Failure to comply with a condition of your policy can result in a claim not being paid,
or only part paid. The Insurer cannot only reject your claim but in certain
circumstances void the policy as a whole.
On page 2 of the policy schedule it reads:
Endorsements applying to the policy: (if applicable)
PROT  We will not be liable for loss by theft of the insured caravan unless it has
been fitted with an operational proactive tracking system approved by us within 30
days of the inception of the policy and evidence provided to us in the event of a claim
or whenever otherwise requested.
Mrs E contacted A-Plan to change the level of cover in relation to the sum insured. But this
didnt affect any of the remaining terms and conditions of Mrs Es policy. And the tracking
device requirement was something that was clearly explained to Mrs E when she bought the
policy in 2014  and highlighted to her in all of the policy schedule and Statement of Fact
documents in subsequent renewals. I dont agree that the policy which renewed in 2019 was 
a new policy. 
In the cover letter attaching the documents in November 2019, A-Plan asked Mrs E to check
the details and if anything had changed or was incorrect, she should let it know so that it
could update her insurance requirements.In response to my provisional decision, Mrs Es son says that the wording of the 
endorsement is misleading quoting it as Proact  if applicable. He says Mrs E took this to 
mean she didnt need to notify A-Plan any more as it was no longer applicable. 
But Im satisfied that A-Plan clearly explained the requirement for a proactive tracking 
system. The wording if applicable applies to the endorsement. As the endorsement was 
listed, it was therefore applicable. 
Ive looked at the relevant guidance from the FCA. For this case Ive referred to the
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook s (ICOBS) appropriate information rule. Under
Section 6 it says that firms must ensure a customer is given appropriate information in good
time to make an informed decision. The appropriate information rule applies to mid-term
adjustments and renewals. The level of information varies, but takes into account (among
other things) whether the same information has been provided to the customer previously
and if so, when. I think A-Plan has shown it gave Mrs E appropriate information in good time
to make an informed decision.
Ive also kept in mind that Mrs E as the customer has a duty to tell A-Plan of any changes
which might affect her cover. And I think A-Plan highlighted the need for Mrs E to do this in
her policy. From the report provided by the LA and Mrs Es sons complaint to A-Plan, Mrs E
was under the impression she had disclosed the expiry of the tracker to A-Plan. But this
wasnt the case.
I understand Mrs E is very disappointed with A-Plans decision. But based on what Ive seen 
and the FCA rules, I dont think A-Plan mis-sold this policy to Mrs E. I think it made Mrs E 
aware that a requirement of her policy was to have a tracker device  a requirement which 
hadnt changed since 2014.
Mrs E knew the tracker device had expired but didnt let A-Plan know. A-Plan carried out the
changes to the policy which Mrs E made it aware of. The tracker device requirement didnt
change and was highlighted to Mrs E at each renewal. I think A-Plan correctly sold the policy
to Mrs E. So it follows that I dont think A-Plan is responsible for the insurers decision to
reject her theft claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman