DRN-3070771
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt fairly compensated her for mis-sold Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI) on a credit card. Mrs V also complains about the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused her.
What happened
Briefly:
Santander upheld Mrs Vs credit card PPI mis-sale complaint (cards ending 
1007,0425,9130,8092, 7324 and 9465) and it offered her compensation of just over £170. 
Santander explained that because it no longer had a full account transaction history from the 
start date to when another card provider took over the account in 2001, it had made some 
assumptions about Mrs Vs account usage to calculate its offer. It said it had taken actual 
account data for the first 12 months the account was administered by the new card provider 
and based on this it had assumed a similar pattern of account behaviour to estimate the 
amount of PPI Mrs V paid from 1997 to 2001.
The adjudicator looked at this and in summary they thought Santanders offer was fair. They 
said that where full account data isnt available they expected Santander to estimate the 
amount a customer paid for PPI so long as the assumptions made were fair. And in the 
circumstances the adjudicator thought Santanders assumptions were fair and in line with 
what the Financial Ombudsman Service expects.
But the adjudicator thought Santanders customer service fell short of what Mrs V should 
reasonably have expected and it recommended Santander pay £50 in recognition of this. 
And Santander agreed.
Mrs V disagrees with the adjudicators conclusions. In summary she says the refund isnt 
justified and says she shouldnt be penalised for Santanders failure to retain its records. Mrs 
V believes the refund offer is speculative.
The complaint comes to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know Mrs V will be disappointed, I think Santanders offer of 
compensation is fair in the circumstances. But I agree with the adjudicator that Mrs V has 
suffered some distress and inconvenience in this matter and I think Santanders offer of £50 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
I can understand Mrs Vs frustration that Santander no longer has a full account 
transactional history to allow it to precisely calculate her PPI compensation. But given the 
passage of time it is somewhat inevitable - the account started in 1997 and it was transferred 
to another provided in 2001. Business dont have to keep records indefinitely.
So this means that Santander has to estimate things. And this is fair so long as the 
assumptions made are fair and reasonable. Ive looked at what Santander has done in Mrs 
Vs case, and in the absence of anything else to show what Mrs V paid for PPI during the 
relevant period, Im satisfied the assumptions it has made are fair. I say this because it has 
taken the data it does have (account activity data for the first twelve months Mrs Vs card 
was with the new provided) and used this to estimate the likely spending pattern and 
therefore PPI charges Mrs V incurred during the period Mrs V held her credit card with 
Santander i.e. 1997 to 2001. Because neither Santander nor Mrs V has any account 
statements, theres nothing to reasonably challenge these assumptions.
I can see Mrs V is unhappy with the amount Santander has offered  shes called the 
amount speculative. But Mrs V hasnt provided anything to challenge the assumptions 
Santander has made  only that she feels she is being penalised for it not having complete 
records. But as I said above, its not unreasonable given the passage of time for Santander 
to no longer hold this data and to therefore have to estimate things. So I dont uphold Mrs 
Vs complaint that shes not been fairly compensated. In the circumstances and taking 
everything into account, I think Santanders offer represents fair compensation.
Finally I can see that Santander agreed with the adjudicator that its level of service fell short 
of what Mrs V could reasonably expect in dealing with her complaint and it offered £50 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. While inevitably dealing with a 
complaint brings a certain level of inconvenience, it is clear from what Mrs V has said that 
the time taken to resolve things and the way things were communicated had an impact on 
her. So taking everything into account, I think a payment of £50 in recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience caused is fair in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Santander should pay Mrs V £50 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience this matter 
had caused her.
Santander should now pay Mrs V her PPI compensation as it has offered to do - if it hasnt 
already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided that Santander UK Plcs offer of PPI 
compensation is fair. Santander UK Plc should now put things right as I have instructed in 
the section above.
I make no other award.This now concludes this services consideration of this complaint  so I wont engage in any 
further discussion on the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman