DRN-4062608
Complaint
Mr B and Mr R are unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) defaulted their 
overdraft and reported this information to credit reference agencies.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr B and Mr Rs concerns. She didnt think that 
Nationwide had done anything wrong or treated Mr B and Mr R unfairly and so didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr B and Mr R disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr B and Mr Rs 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
It isnt in dispute that there was an outstanding balance on an unarranged overdraft on             
Mr B and Mr Rs account in 2018. As a result of the account remaining in arrears for an 
extended period of time and a number repayment plans failing, Nationwide sent a default 
notice to the address it held for Mr B and Mr R in December 2018. I accept that Mr B may 
have already left this address some time before this notification was sent. But even if this is 
the case, Mr B accepts that he didnt notify Nationwide of his change of address, as he 
wasnt using his account. 
I appreciate that Mr B may not have been using the account at the time he left the address 
Nationwide held for him. However, he nonetheless remained a joint account holder and it 
was up to him to notify Nationwide of a change of address. As Nationwide wasnt told that  
Mr B had moved elsewhere, I think it was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr B was still 
living at the address it held on its records. Equally, as Mr B hadnt been removed form the 
account, it had no way of knowing that he wasnt using the account either.
In any event, a lender is required to send a default notice to the last known address that it 
has for a customer. And Im satisfied that Nationwide not only sent the default notice to the 
address it held for Mr B and Mr R, but that this was also Mr Bs last known address as far as 
Nationwide was concerned. This means that Im satisfied Nationwide took reasonable steps 
to notify Mr B (and Mr R) that it intended to default the overdraft should the account not be 
brought back up to date. 
Bearing in mind the above and Mr B and Mr R didnt repay what was owed, after the default 
notice was sent in December 2018, within the specified period, Im satisfied that Nationwide 
was entitled to default Mr B and Mr Rs overdraft and record the relevant information with 
credit reference agencies. 
In reaching this conclusion, Ive thought about what Mr B and Mr R have said about 
Nationwide refunding of some of the charges it applied to their account, in June 2020. But 
this refund wasnt due to Nationwide incorrectly defaulting the overdraft. It was provide 
because Nationwide failed to send text message alerts notifying Mr B and Mr R that the 
account was in an unarranged overdraft for a certain period.
Furthermore, as the refund was less than the balance the account defaulted with, I cant 
reasonably say that Mr B and Mr Rs account was defaulted as a direct consequence of the 
failure to send the required text messages either. So Im satisfied that the refund                      
Mr B and Mr R received in June 2020 doesnt mean that Nationwide should remove the 
default either.
Overall and having considered everything, while I do appreciate Mr B and Mr Rs strength of 
feeling on this matter, I dont think that Nationwide has treated them unfairly. And so Ive not 
been persuaded to uphold Mr B and Mr Rs complaint. I realise that this will be very 
disappointing for Mr B and Mr R. But I hope that theyll understand the reasons for my 
decision and at least feel that their concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr B and Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman