DRN-4411417
The complaint
Miss B complains that two sofas she acquired under one or more fixed sum loan agreements 
with Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as V12 Retail Finance (V12) werent of satisfactory 
quality and V12 should have to compensate for this fact under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In 2022 Miss B purchased two sofas from a company that I will call S with finance provided 
by V12.
In 2023 Miss B complained to V12 about the quality of her two sofas and asked V12 to 
compensate her for this fact. 
On 8 May 2023 an inspector, appointed by S, attended Miss Bs property and inspected both 
sofas. He concluded there was no fault with either sofa and what Miss B was experiencing 
was normal product performance and natural settlement.
On 27 June 2023 V12 issued Miss B with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this 
FRL V12 said it wasnt upholding Miss Bs claim against it, and her subsequent compliant 
about the same, because it wasnt persuaded either sofa was faulty. 
In July 2023, and unhappy with V12s FRL, Miss B referred her complaint to our service.
Miss Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
V12 had done nothing wrong in concluding that it wasnt liable to compensate Miss B.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point or particular piece of evidence, its not because Ive failed to 
take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach what I think is the right outcome. And our rules allow me to do this, this reflects our 
informal, free service as an alternative to the courts.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Miss B acquired two sofas under one or more regulated fixed sum loan agreements. So, Im 
satisfied this service can consider Miss Bs complaint.
When something goes wrong with goods or services and the payment was made, in part or 
whole, with certain types of credit, as is the case here, it might be possible to make a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the retailer if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the retailer. 
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. But I 
take section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, 
but I dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when 
considering breach of contract. From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to 
be made under section 75 have been met.
So, I will now consider whether there is sufficient evidence of a breach of contract.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the sofas shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied to Miss B. And if they werent, then under 
section 75 V12 would be responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as 
what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, durability 
and other relevant circumstances. 
The CRA also says that goods must conform to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present 
when the goods were supplied. Although Miss B tells us that she noticed the sofas were 
showing signs of sagging shortly after taking delivery of them, the earliest evidence we have 
of Miss B raising any concerns about the sofas is more than six months after she took 
delivery of them. This means the onus is on Miss B to show that the sofas werent of 
satisfactory quality when they were supplied.
So, Ive considered what Miss B has said and all the evidence she has provided. Miss B 
says the sofas arent as comfortable as they were when she first took delivery of them and 
they are now unsightly to look at. 
However, comfortability is subjective. It will depend partly on the users own preferences, 
perceptions and characteristics  including their body weight, height, their seating position, 
what they are used to, and what they like and dislike. So, whilst I dont doubt that Miss B 
finds the sofas uncomfortable, I dont think this means there is a fault with them.
Miss B says the sofas are unsightly to look at and has provided a number of photographs in 
support of her view in this respect. But equally S has advised that this isnt unusual, given 
what the sofas are made of and given what the cushions are filled with, and that they simply 
need simple regular maintenance to maintain their performance, comfort and look. So I dont 
think that this particular issue makes either sofa of unsatisfactory quality.Furthermore, Miss B hasnt provided any independent evidence in support of her complaint, 
like an independent report confirming a manufacturing defect or premature wear and tear, 
whereas V12 has been able to provide an inspection report provided by an inspector 
appointed by S which says, amongst other things:
no faults found, normal product and performance and natural settlement. This is exactly 
what I expected to see in line with normal settlement, no faults found. Inspected internally, 
demonstrated and reassured customer that all webbing, frame and structure was fine and in 
intact. There are no faults with the furniture. 
I appreciate Miss B will be disappointed but based on everything that has been said and 
submitted Im satisfied that V12 has done nothing wrong in declining her claim for 
compensation and nothing wrong in not upholding her complaint about the same.
I note that under cover of an email dated 13 July 2023 S has offered Miss B compensation 
as a gesture of goodwill. Now  I dont know whether this offer is still available for acceptance 
by Miss B, but she might want to consider contacting S to see if it is and consider whether, in 
all the circumstances, it should be accepted.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman