DRN-2350613
The complaint
Its been agreed AXA France IARD should accept responsibility for this complaint. To keep 
things simpler, Ill refer to AXA as the seller of the PPI in my decision.
Mrs T says AXA mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In December 1994 Mrs T took out a store card with PPI whilst she was out shopping. 
Amongst other things, Mrs T said she had some long term medical conditions when she took 
out the PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Ts complaint upheld it. Mainly, she didnt think Mrs T 
wouldve taken out the insurance if AXA had made her aware that the policy wouldnt have 
covered accident and sickness claims for a particular lifelong condition Mrs T had when she 
bought it. 
AXA didnt respond to our adjudicators view.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here. Having done so, although I've taken a different approach to 
our adjudicator Im still thinking about upholding Mrs Ts complaint for a different reason. Ill 
explain why.
Mrs T had a lifelong condition she was born with that our adjudicator thought made the 
policy unsuitable for her. 
I dont think I've seen enough information to be able to agree with that. I say this because 
Mrs T has told us that this condition hasnt ever led to her needing to take time off work. 
So, even if AXA didnt do enough to draw to Mrs Ts attention a policy restriction that 
wouldve made it difficult for her to claim for this condition, I dont think it wouldve made any 
difference to Mrs Ts decision to take the policy out. Thats because I dont think its likely, 
when she took out the PPI, that Mrs T wouldve had any reason to expect shed need to 
claim for absence from work due to her lifelong condition.
But Mrs T also had a different serious long term health condition that our adjudicator didnt 
mention. So I've thought carefully about the impact that condition had on Mrs Ts day to day 
life and her ability to work.
AXA needed to give Mrs T enough clear information about the PPI for her to be able to make 
an informed choice about whether it was right for her. 
I dont know exactly what was said when the policy was sold to Mrs T.
It looks like the policy Mrs T bought didn't cover claims resulting from any sickness, disease, 
condition or injury which Mrs T knew, or ought to have known about or for which she asked 
about or received advice, treatment or counselling for from any doctor during the 12 months 
immediately before the policy start date.
I think its likely that the policy wording wouldve excluded cover for accident and sickness 
claims resulting from a medical condition that Mrs Ts doctor diagnosed in 1994. 
So I think the limitation on cover for health conditions is likely to have mattered to Mrs T. 
I say this because I think that her condition is relatively serious. Its a condition that has the 
potential to impact significantly on her day to day life and affect her ability to work. 
Mrs T told us she manages her condition on a daily basis with prescribed medication but 
even this doesnt always prevent her from ever having any symptoms. 
Given the symptoms shes described, I think Mrs T might reasonably have expected that her 
health condition could potentially have a significant impact on her day to day life and lead to 
her needing to take time off work.
But I cant see how or if AXA drew this information to her attention, as it shouldve done, 
when it sold her the PPI. 
Given her medical condition was ongoing, I think Mrs T wouldve wanted to know it would be 
covered by taking out this type of cover. 
And if AXA had explained things as it shouldve done, I dont think its likely that Mrs T 
wouldve thought the policy was right for her.  
Based on all the information I've seen, I think Mrs T has lost out because of what AXA did 
wrong and it should put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Neither party has commented on what Ive said in my provisional decision by the due date 
for responses (even after allowing an extra few days).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things rightAXA should put Mrs T in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
How it does this will depend on whether Mrs Ts store card account is still active or has been 
closed.
I understand that the policy has already been cancelled (if not, the policy should be 
cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already).
If Mrs Ts account is still active:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs T would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs T owes and what she would 
have owed.
If Mrs T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when AXA works out what Mrs T would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs 
T paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mrs T paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs T 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
C. AXA should tell Mrs T what its done to work out A and B.
If Mrs Ts account has been closed: 
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs T would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs T owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs T would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs T would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs T 
paid more than enough to clear the balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs T paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs T 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs T what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs T that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AXA France IARD to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mrs T. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman