DRN-1223632
 
The complaint
Mr D says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
In 2002, Mr D applied for a credit card by post. At the same time, Capital One sold him PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr D disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case. 
Having done so, I dont believe the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the form Mr D completed and signed to apply for the credit card. It 
offered a choice of Yes and No boxes for PPI in a section headed Additional Information. 
The Yes box was ticked. 
On balance, I believe Mr D was made aware the PPI was optional and that he decided to 
take it on that basis. Its understandable if he doesnt remember that now after all this time.
I dont consider that Capital One recommended the PPI to Mr D. That meant it didnt have to 
check if it was right for him. But it did have to give him enough information to be able to 
decide for himself if it was right for him. And the information had to be clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Looking at the information I have, its possible that Capital One didnt do this as well as it 
should have. But I dont think Mr Ds worse off as a result. Thats because I dont think better 
information would have changed Mr Ds mind about buying the PPI. I say that because, from 
what I know of his circumstances at the time of sale:
Mr D was eligible for the policy. And he wasnt affected by any of the main things the 
policy excluded or limited cover for.
Mr Ds told us he had other means of meeting his card repayments for a time if he 
was off work sick  through employer benefits and his own savings. But the PPI 
would have paid 10% of the outstanding balance on the account for up to 12 months 
per claim  for both disability and unemployment  on top of any other pay hed have 
received. It might have allowed him to retain his savings or put them to another use. 
Overall, I think the PPI provided Mr D with useful extra protection.Ive seen nothing to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mr D. And it was flexible in 
that he could have cancelled it at any time at no extra cost.
 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. But 
Capital Ones offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr D about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Mr D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital Ones basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think 
thats fair in this case.                                                                                           
 
What the business needs to do
Capital One has to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Capital One should also pay back 
to Mr D any extra interest he paid because of that.
Capital One should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr D the difference 
between what Mr D owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Mr D 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman