DRN-1928744
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc made errors during a review of its 
account causing inconvenience and the suspension of access.
What happened
HSBC wrote to C to say it needed to confirm information about its business as part of a 
safeguard review. C provided the information, but its account was still suspended in error for 
a day. HSBC paid C £300 and sent a hamper. Since the complaint has been referred to this 
service it has now offered to pay a further £50 for not returning calls from the director of C.
Our investigator did not recommend that HSBC do anything more. He said that HSBC 
accepted it had provided poor service during the review. He considered that the 
compensation offered was reasonable and said that we are not the regulator and dont have 
a role in supervising the procedures undertaken by HSBC.
C did not agree and said that it remained dissatisfied with the level of communication and 
that HSBC had failed to recognise the time taken to resolve this issue and the disturbance 
caused. If had no confidence things would be any different in future. The director asked that 
this complaint be escalated to see if anything further could be done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has to ensure it complies with regulatory and legal requirements. And it asked C for 
information to help it do this. In itself that would involve some necessary time for C.
The issue here is that having had a discussion with HSBC on 16 September 2019, C was 
told that it had provided all the information needed. But HBSC wrote to C in two subsequent 
letters Ive seen to say that it hadnt provided the information needed and that if it did not do 
so the account would be closed on 19 November 2019. Ive also seen email correspondence 
between the director of C and his contact point at HSBC when he was assured this would be 
resolved. But it wasnt and on 19 November 2019 Cs access to its account and facilities was 
restricted. C says that at the time it needed to make important payments and book travel. All 
access was restored by the following day and the compensation of £300 was paid. But C 
had made further calls about this in December 2019 which HSBC says it has no record of 
responding to. That was the reason it offered the further compensation.
I can see that on the complaint form the director of C says that the original payment gave 
HSBC no incentive to fix things and C still expresses concern now that nothing will be 
improved. As our investigator said we dont have a role in changing processes. And I also 
need to say that we are awarding compensation based on the impact on C, not to punish 
HSBC.
It is clear that HSBCs existing process did not work as it should. C had complied with all the 
requirements and two months later this had still not been confirmed. C had done everything 
that it could to alert HSBC to the issue and still its access was restricted. 
Putting things right
I need to think about the appropriate level of compensation for C which is a separate legal 
entity and cannot suffer distress. Im satisfied that the total amount now offered is 
appropriate taking into account everything that happened. And so, Im afraid I wont be 
asking HSBC to do more than its offered to.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint on the basis that HSBC UK Bank Plc should now 
pay C a further £50 compensation making a total of £350 as it has now offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman