DRN-3388267
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited declined a claim he 
made on his employers group income protection scheme. 
What happened
Mr W is a beneficiary of his employers group income protection scheme. In October 2020 he 
became absent from work and his employer started the process for Mr W to make a claim on 
the policy.
Legal and General reviewed the medical evidence and declined Mr Ws claim on the basis 
that there wasnt evidence to show that he met the definition of incapacity as set out in the 
policy. In summary, they thought Mr W was experiencing stress as opposed to a mental 
health condition. Mr W appealed and was seen by an independent medical examiner (IME) 
who concluded Mr W wasnt medically precluded from working. So, Legal and General 
maintained their decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, Mr W made a complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He 
thought that Legal and General had reasonably declined the claim, based on the available 
medical evidence. Mr W didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He 
says Legal and General have relied on technicalities to decline the claim, have called into 
question the integrity of his GP and have demonstrated an ignorant attitude towards 
someone experiencing a mental health issue. So, I need to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Legal and General have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Its for Mr W to demonstrate that he has a valid claim on the policy, not for Legal and 
General to show that he doesnt. That means Mr W needed to show that he met the relevant 
policy definition of incapacity. The policy terms and conditions say that this: 
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him 
from performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of 
the deferred period.
Essential duties are defined as: 
The duties that are normally required for the performance of the insured members 
insured occupation and which cannot reasonably be omitted or amended. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Legal and General to decline Mr Ws claim. I say that 
because: 
Mr Ws GP confirmed that Mr W was experiencing low mood, poor sleep and 
anhedonia. He explained that hed been signing Mr W off work, had prescribed 
antidepressants and that Mr W had been referred for counselling. The GP said that 
Mr W wasnt well enough to work. But, the GP didnt comment in detail on why Mr W 
couldnt work or how his symptoms specifically stopped him from carrying out his 
own occupation. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Legal and General to 
conclude that this wasnt enough evidence to demonstrate that Mr W couldnt carry 
out the essential duties of his own occupation. 
Legal and General referred Mr W to a consultant clinical psychiatrist for an 
independent medical examination. I think that was reasonable as it ensured Mr W 
was seen by a specialist with expertise in mental health who had the opportunity to 
explore Mr Ws condition in more depth, and explore how his symptoms impacted on 
his ability to work. 
I think it was reasonable for Legal and General to rely on the expert opinion of a 
suitably qualified consultant psychiatrist when declining the claim. The IME 
concluded that it wasnt appropriate to diagnose Mr W with a formal mental illness 
and that he was experiencing a reaction to personal adversity. He acknowledged that 
Mr W was facing difficult personal circumstances but noted that having work as an 
active part of his life stood a good chance of helping him. So, I think Legal and 
General reasonably concluded Mr W didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity. 
I dont think Legal and General has questioned the integrity of Mr Ws GP. Mr W was 
seen by a specialist with expertise in the relevant field and I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Legal and General to place more weight on the specialists opinion. 
I understand that Mr W feels that Legal and General havent demonstrated empathy 
or understanding of mental health conditions. I dont agree thats the case. I think 
Legal and General recognised the complexity of Mr Ws circumstances and 
responded appropriately, by instructing an IME with expertise in mental health to 
assess Mr Ws condition. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman