DRN-3556161
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim 
made on her motor insurance policy. She wants a full refund of the premium she paid. 
What happened
Mrs B said another car had reversed into hers and AA told her, based on this, that the claim 
would be non-fault. AA initiated repairs, but Mrs B put them on hold whilst she waited for 
liability to be agreed. Mrs B also wanted to get CCTV footage of the incident. The claim was 
eventually settled as 50/50 split liability as the CCTV footage was unclear and the other 
driver had provided a different version of events. But Mrs B was unhappy with this change, 
and with AAs level of service. AA agreed that it hadnt responded to some of Mrs Bs emails 
and it offered an apology for this. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought AA 
had handled the claim reasonably and delays were unavoidable due to the wait for the 
CCTV evidence. She thought AA had made its liability decision after considering all the 
evidence. But she thought an apology wasnt enough redress for the level of service AA had 
provided in not replying to Mrs Bs emails and its dropped calls to her. She thought AA 
should pay Mrs B £75 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
AA said that it thought an apology was sufficient for its service failings. As AA didnt accept 
the Investigators view, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what I can see, Mrs B has accepted our Investigators view that AA handled her claim 
reasonably, that it wasnt responsible for any avoidable delays, and that its decision on 
liability was reasonable. I agree that AA hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in progressing 
the claim and deciding liability. So I wont consider this further here. What remains for me to 
consider is AAs level of service during the claim. 
AA agreed that its level of service had been poor:
Mrs B called AA for an update when she was told she may be held at fault, but the call 
was cut off twice and AA didnt try to call Mrs B again. AA said this was due to a 
misunderstanding. But I think AA should have reasonably tried to call Mrs B again to 
reassure her rather than leave her feeling unsupported.
Mrs B emailed AA on more than one occasion (Mrs B said ten times), but it didnt 
acknowledge her emails. This meant that Mrs B had to call AA to get updates. AA has 
agreed there was work going on to progress the claim and I think it could have told Mrs B 
this in response to her emails. 
Mrs B had provided images of her cars damage to the repairer. But AA said she hadnt 
provided these. Mrs B said she had to call and email AA repeatedly to resolve this. 
When a business makes mistakes, as AA accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
I cant see that AAs level of service caused Mrs B any material loss that its required to 
make good. But I think that it did cause Mrs B a level of stress and frustration beyond what is 
usual in dealing with a claim. And I think she had to spend time repeatedly calling and 
emailing AA when a better level of service would have avoided this. 
AA apologised for its level of service. But I dont think this was sufficient in the 
circumstances. I think, in keeping with our published guidance, which AA has quoted, an 
apology would be acceptable for one mistake. But, as there were further errors, Im satisfied 
that a small monetary award is warranted. Our Investigator recommended £75 
compensation. And I think that fairly compensates Mrs B for the level of trouble and upset 
caused.
Putting things right
I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs B £75 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman