DRN-3201841
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, didnt stop a payment from 
leaving his bank account. Hes also unhappy that the bank wouldnt refund the money after it 
had been taken.
What happened
On 5 December 2020, Mr B used his debit card to book hotel accommodation via a well-
known travel companys website. But shortly after making his reservation, Mr B read some 
negative online reviews about the hotel. So, he changed his mind about staying there and 
tried to cancel.
 
Mr B hadnt paid immediately for his accommodation. Hed booked the hotel stay on a no 
pre-payment basis, which he felt shouldve allowed him to cancel his reservation and 
receive a refund. But the travel company told Mr B that while payment to the hotel wasnt 
required in advance of his stay, the booking itself was non-refundable. So, the hotel would 
still take payment.
 
On 10 December Mr B called Halifax, he told the bank hed lost his debit card and that he 
wanted to cancel it. The banks advisor duly cancelled Mr Bs debit card and arranged for a 
new one to be sent, they also explained that no further transactions could be made once the 
card had been cancelled.
 
Four days later, on 14 December, the hotel processed the full payment. The transaction left 
Mr Bs account in an unarranged overdraft of around £700.
 
Mr B complained to Halifax. He said hed cancelled his debit card, and the advisor hed 
spoken with had told him that no further transactions could be made. So, Mr B wanted to 
know how the hotel had been able to take payment. Further, Mr B said his account shouldnt 
provide him with an overdraft  so he was unhappy this had been allowed.
 
In response, Halifax said the payment to the hotel was pre-authorised. The bank explained 
that a debit card payment is a guaranteed form of payment  and when Mr B initially booked 
and provided his debit card details, the hotel had taken a nominal amount which allowed it to 
earmark the rest to be taken later. Halifax said it had no choice but to let the payment be 
made when the hotel claimed it, despite Mr B not having enough funds to cover it.
 
Moreover, Halifax also set out that it wouldnt refund Mr B because the travel company had 
made clear that the booking was non-refundable. So, Mr B brought his complaint to our 
service.
 
An investigator here reviewed what had happened, but he didnt think Halifax had done 
anything wrong. He said, in summary, that Halifax had to honour the payment to the hotel 
because it was pre-authorised. He also set out that a chargeback wouldve had little chance 
of success, so Halifax wasnt acting unreasonably when it decided not to pursue a 
chargeback request. 
 
Mr B disagreed, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, as an agreement couldnt 
be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr B feels very strongly about whats happened. A lot of money has debited his 
account for accommodation that he didnt end up using, and hes not been able to obtain a 
refund. So, I can understand his frustration at the matter. But having said that, I dont think 
Halifax has acted unfairly in the circumstances. Ill explain why.
 
To complete his booking Mr B wouldve had to agree to certain terms. Here, the key 
conditions seem to have been that the hotel didnt require payment in advance  but the 
booking itself was non-refundable.
 
Mr B was asked to provide his debit card details to secure his booking and, by doing so, he 
pre-authorised the payment to the hotel. This can happen when merchants process a 
nominal fee initially before taking the rest of the payment later. Its a legitimate practice, and 
its not uncommon for merchants to operate in this way. Essentially, this set aside money in 
Mr Bs account for the hotel to claim soon  instead of the full amount being debited 
immediately.
 
Mr B has said that when the hotel claimed the payment, it shouldve been refused because 
his account shouldnt be allowed to go overdrawn. So, Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions which govern his account.
 
When theres not enough money to make a payment, Halifax explains that it may let a 
customer borrow through an unarranged overdraft or refuse the payment. The 
circumstances of each payment will determine which option the bank takes. But here the 
payment had been pre-authorised, so the bank had no option but to pay it  even if it meant 
Mr Bs account became overdrawn.
I know Mr B also feels that the payment shouldnt have gone through because hed 
cancelled his card, and the advisor he spoke with told him that no further transactions could 
take place. But that would only apply to any new spending on the card  which wasnt the 
case here. So, Im satisfied Mr B was provided with the correct information.
 
Mr B has said hes unhappy Halifax wont refund the money. A bank can sometimes raise a 
request for a chargeback if a retailer fails to provide goods or services that the customer has 
paid for. For example, a request might be considered in cases where the goods purchased 
by a customer are faulty  or a merchant erroneously processes a payment twice. But its 
important to remember that a chargeback request isnt a consumer right. 
A bank doesnt have to attempt one if theres little or no chance of success  for example, if 
a customer changes their mind about a purchase. And, in any case, a chargeback request 
offers no guarantee of successfully returning a customers money.
  
Here, Mr B had booked the accommodation on a non-refundable basis. And it was still 
available to him  he simply changed his mind about wanting to stay there. But because a 
change of mind isnt something thats covered under the chargeback scheme, I think its very 
unlikely that a chargeback request would have succeeded. So, it follows that I dont think it was unreasonable of Halifax not to attempt one.
   
Finally, Im aware Mr B has also said that his booking was made on a no pre-payment basis 
 so he feels he shouldve been able to cancel and receive a refund. I accept Mr B didnt 
have to pre-pay, that fits with the hotel not debiting his account immediately. But it seems the 
booking itself was non-refundable, and thats different to Mr B not having to pay anything 
upfront. In any case, if Mr B is unhappy with the terms of his booking, thats a matter that 
hell need to take up with the hotel and travel company directly  not Halifax.
To sum up, I do empathise with Mr Bs situation and I know hell be disappointed by what 
Ive set out. But, in all the circumstances, I dont think Halifax has acted unreasonably. So, 
for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman