DRN-3390387
The complaint
Mr S complains advice given by Cowley and Miller Independent Financial Services Limited 
to transfer the deferred benefits of his armed forces occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension wasnt in his best interests.
Mr S is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
What happened
Mr S had deferred benefits in the armed forces pension scheme (AFPS) from about six 
years service. The scheme had a normal retirement age of 60.
In late 2014 Mr S approached Cowley & Miller Independent Financial Services Limited 
(C&M) to discuss his pension options. In early 2015 an adviser from C&M met with Mr S 
and carried out a fact find which recorded his circumstances as follows:
He was aged 37 in good health, single but living with his partner and baby;
He was working, earning around £24,800 and received income from a war pension of 
around £520 per month;
He was making monthly contributions to his current employers pension; 
He had savings of around £10,000 and his monthly surplus income after expenditure 
was just over £1,100;
He was assessed as having a balanced attitude to risk;
The transfer value of his AFPS was recorded as £26,201;
Mr S said he hoped to retire at age 55, he wanted enhanced non-spousal death benefits, 
and was aware that if he didnt transfer then he may not be able to do so in the future.
In February 2015 C&M issued Mr S with a suitability report which explained it had just given 
restricted advice in respect of his pension. It set out three options open to Mr S  he could 
stay in the AFPS, transfer the benefits to a personal pension with provider R or transfer to 
a stakeholder pension plan. 
The report warned that if Mr S transferred his AFPS hed be giving up valuable guaranteed 
benefits. But it recommended the transfer to the personal pension with R for the following 
reasons:
Control over his pension funds allowing him the flexibility to take benefits at 55 if he 
wanted;
Enhanced death benefits compared to AFPS;
The state pension would cover his income needs in retirement, but this plan would 
subsidise his expenditure;
He could still take benefits in the same way as the AFPS if he wanted to
The R pension had annual management charges of 0.9%, and C&M advisers charge was 
5% of the transfer value. 
Mr S accepted the advice, signing the authority form on 16 February 2015, and the transfer 
to a personal pension with R went ahead, with the funds invested in line with Mr Ss 
balanced attitude to risk. 
In June 2020 Mr S via his CMC complained to C&M, saying its advice had been negligent. 
They said by transferring, Mr S had lost both his own guaranteed pension, plus a guaranteed 
spouses pension, was now liable for charges and was taking additional risk. It also made a 
number of additional points, including that Mr S hadnt been in a good place mentally at the 
time of the advice, the C&M adviser had told Mr S his AFPS was worthless, and that the R 
plan would make him better off.
C&M didnt uphold the complaint. They said the complaint contained a number of factual 
inaccuracies. And it had overlooked that Mr S had approached C&M to transfer his AFPS, 
because hed been aware the right to transfer was being withdrawn through a change in 
government legislation. They said its adviser had done a thorough review of Mr Ss 
circumstances, and ensured he was fully aware of the benefits hed be giving up. But his 
objective was to retire at 55, and benefits couldnt be taken from the AFPS before normal 
retirement age of 60, unless for reasons of ill health, and Mr S had described his health as 
good. They denied the adviser had told Mr S hed be better off, and his current financial 
adviser (who introduced Mr S to C&M) reviewed the plan performance on an annual basis. 
Mr Ss CMC brought his complaint to this service, where one of our investigators upheld it 
and set out how C&M should put things right. 
Mr S through his CMC accepted the outcome, but C&M didnt respond, despite being chased 
a number of times. As they hadnt agreed to the outcome and redress, the case was passed 
to me to issue a decision. In the meantime Mr S is now represented by a different CMC. 
Provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision on this case as although Id come to the same outcome as the 
investigator, I thought I should address some additional points. And I was minded not to 
award the additional £250 recommended by the investigator for distress and inconvenience. 
So it was fair to give both parties an opportunity to respond. 
I made the following provisional findings: 
The approach of this service when considering transfers from defined benefit pension 
schemes aligns with the FCA guidance, which is the assumption they will generally not be 
suitable. The guidance applicable at the time of the advice (COBS 5.3.29G) was as follows: 
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence 
available at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
This is known as the presumption of unsuitability and has been renumbered to COBS 
19.1.6G in the current FCA rulebook. A transfer to a defined contribution pension means the 
member loses guaranteed benefits and becomes vulnerable to investment risk, with the 
potential for their funds to run out, leaving them with inadequate provision for their 
retirement. Mr Ss pension pot was relatively modest at £26,201. So although there were still 18 years to 
his chosen retirement age of 55, it may not grow sufficiently to provide an adequate income, 
making early retirement seem quite unrealistic. And on the face of it, the critical yield looked 
reasonably high at 7.86%, to match the scheme benefits at 60. The actual investment growth 
needed is likely to be higher, based on retiring at 55. And these figures dont allow for the 
impact of charges, which Mr S wasnt responsible for paying in the AFPS. 
Mr S was aware that from April 2015 it would no longer be possible to transfer unfunded 
public sector defined benefit pension funds (including the AFPS), unless it was to another 
similar scheme. So Mr S couldnt have postponed the decision to transfer to a personal 
pension until later, as the opportunity wouldnt be available again. 
Mr S had two objectives  the flexibility to retire at 55, not available through the AFPS which 
only permitted benefits to be taken earlier than 60 on ill health grounds. And he wanted to 
ensure provision for his partner, to whom he was not married, and their son, should the 
worst happen. 
C&Ms suitability report dated 13 February 2015 showed that the AFPS would provide Mr Ss 
beneficiaries with a lump sum of £4,362.50 if he died before normal retirement age (of 60) 
increasing by CPI to a maximum of 5% each year to 60. A table provided the death benefits 
from the personal pension based on growth rates of -0.5%, 2.4% and 5.4% (allowing for 
inflation at 2.5%) from day one, and after 5, 10 and 20 years. It read assuming a 2.4% p.a. 
growth, immediately on transfer to the [R] pension portfolio your death benefits would 
worsen by 47%. But then said this wasnt applicable to Mr S as he was divorced, which I 
dont think was as clear an explanation as it couldve been.
According to the scheme information, Mr Ss pensionable service in the armed forces was 
between October 1995 and November 2001. Those service dates suggest he was a member 
of the 1975 scheme (AFPS 75), as a new scheme (AFPS 05) was introduced in 2005. The 
AFPS75 scheme documentation says a Surviving Spouse/Civil Partner may receive up to 
50% of the members pension. Pensions for eligible children may also be payable. 
Pensions for eligible partners may be payable if death is attributable to service. 
In the definitions section a spouse is defined as The partner from a legal marriage 
including a same sex marriage. This term does not apply to an unmarried partner. So its 
clear Mr Ss partner wouldnt have been eligible for any spouse benefits.
Mr Ss partner may have been an eligible partner as the definition for this is Someone with 
whom the scheme member: (1) was cohabiting, (2) in an exclusive and substantial 
relationship, (3) had financial dependence or interdependence, (4) was not prevented from 
marrying or forming a civil partnership. But any entitlement of an eligible partner was 
dependent on the member dying in service, whereas Mr S had left the service some years 
previously. 
Depending on when Mr S passed away, his son could qualify as an eligible child, if he was 
under 17 at the time of death, or under 23 in full time education. And Mr S noted in 
supplementary questionnaire he signed on 21 January 2015, he anticipated his child being in 
education until age 18/19. 
But while C&M recorded that providing for his family supported the transfer, Mr S answered 
the Lump sum death benefits question in the supplementary questionnaire by ticking box 
(2) my dependents will receive significant sums upon my death and whilst a greater amount 
might be beneficial, it is not an absolute priority for me.  
The fact-find recorded that Mr S already has life cover which [his partner] pays for and 
doesnt want any more protection. To the Spouses and dependent childrens pensions question Mr S ticked box (3) I would 
like the flexibility at retirement to control the way benefits are paid and wish to retain the 
flexibility to decide depending upon my circumstances at the time. I think this question is 
less relevant to my consideration of the complaint, as I dont think any of the four options 
properly reflected Mr Ss circumstances. Option 1 related to the spouse having significant 
pension provision their own right, option 2 was for someone who was single and anticipating 
remaining so at retirement, and option 4 was for someone who wanted to retain the same 
spouse benefits as their ex-employers scheme, and we know that Mr S didnt have a spouse 
who could benefit under the AFPS. 
While I could see that provision for his dependent child and unmarried was important to Mr S 
I wasnt persuaded this was enough to make the transfer suitable. 
Mr S was provided with three illustrations of the R plan in January 2015, the figures from 
which were reflected in the suitability report dated 13 February 2015. These were based on 
retirement at age 55, 60 and 65, based on growth rates as set out above. These show that at 
age 60 (the normal retirement age for his AFPS) Mr Ss plan could be worth £18,200, 
£36,200 or £68,900 respectively. Which would provide him with annual income of £673, 
£1,780 or £4,340, or a tax-free lump sum of £4,570, £9,050 or £17,200, and annual income 
of £505, £1,330 or £3,250. The figures for retiring at 55 as Mr S hoped to do, were even 
lower, providing a maximum annual income without tax-free cash of between £646 and 
£3,240. Based on these figures, it was unrealistic for Mr S to retire at 55, around a decade 
before he could claim the state pension. 
Mr Ss CMC said he had a low attitude to risk, but this isnt supported by his response to 
the Risk and Reward question in the supplementary questionnaire. He ticked box (2) which 
read I do not mind a reasonable degree of risk in the hope that my benefits could be higher 
in retirement. Rather than selecting (3) I do not consider it to be appropriate to expose 
myself to anything other than a minimal amount of risk. Or (4) I require no risk with 
maximum possible guarantees.
The CMC also says Mr S didnt want to take any risk with his pension due to not having any 
other pensions in place. Although C&M say they were only engaged to advise on the 
transfer from the AFPS, the way Mr S answered the Percentage of Benefits question 
suggested he had other provision. It read Most people anticipate that they need to work for 
a full 40 years to achieve the maximum level of pension benefits. Bearing this in mind, how 
do you consider the benefits under discussion? And then there were four boxes from (1) 
being a major proportion and (4) being an insignificant part. Mr S ticked (3) Whilst of 
value, these benefits do not represent a significant proportion of my potential pension at 
retirement. 
According to the fact-find, Mr S was working as a sales manager, and had been in that role 
for 3 years 6 months, making monthly pension contributions of £12.95 which his employer 
was matching. So I think C&M couldve explored what benefits Mr Ss partner might have 
been entitled to under that policy. Mr S left the armed forces in 2001 and started his current 
job 3.5 years prior to the advice, leaving about ten years unaccounted for, in which Mr S 
couldve been employed and paying into a pension, which C&M didnt question.
I understand Mr S and his partner have since married. So if he hadnt transferred, his now 
wife would be entitled to a spouse pension from the AFPS. This may not have been Mr Ss 
intention at the time of the advice, but I dont think its unreasonable for C&M to have asked 
Mr S whether hed considered resolving the spouse pension issue by marrying.I found no evidence C&M took advantage of Mr S not being in a great place mentally as it 
didnt seem they couldve known. The fact find suggested Mr S described his health at the 
time as good and didnt anticipate this changing in the future. 
I couldnt say Mr S wasnt made aware of the guaranteed benefits hed be giving up by 
transferring. The suitability report contained in bold type the warning that Mr S will be giving 
up valuable guaranteed pension benefits...  It also said I recommend you give careful 
consideration to your attitude to investment risk and capacity for loss before you consider 
transferring ..
Due to the way the suitability report was worded it wasnt clear the C&M adviser had 
recommended the transfer, or just said they would facilitate it. But either way  I thought the 
adviser should have been clearer with Mr S that based on various factors (the transfer value, 
his apparent lack of other pension provision, and the rate he was contributing to his current 
pension scheme), retirement at age 55 was somewhat unrealistic, and the transfer wasnt in 
his best interests. I understood Mr S might have wanted to transfer, knowing the opportunity 
would be lost after April 2015. But I didnt think this was enough to demonstrate on the 
evidence available at the time that it is in the customer's best interests as the presumption 
of unsuitability requires. 
So I upheld the complaint and set out how C&M should put things right. 
Responses to the provisional decision 
Mr Ss CMC had nothing further to add. C&M didnt respond, and the deadline to do so has 
now passed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence or arguments for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision. 
So I uphold the complaint and require C&M to pay redress as set out below.  
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice, which would mean Mr S would 
have remained in the armed forces occupational scheme. 
Cowley & Miller Financial Services Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in 
line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ss acceptance of the decision.Cowley & Miller may wish to consult the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ss contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date 
Cowley & Miller receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Cowley & Miller to pay Mr S. 
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Cowley & Miller independent Financial Services Limited should put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman