DRN-2675555
The complaint
Mr T complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim he made on his motor 
insurance policy after he was involved in an accident. He says Aviva took too long to 
consider the claim; were wrong to say he was 50% liable for the accident; and didnt help 
him get legal representation.    
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. He thought Avivas handling of 
Mr Ts claim couldve been better  including looking into whether there was CCTV footage 
of the accident. But he didnt think this changed the outcome Aviva reached about who was 
liable for the accident. Our investigator was also satisfied Aviva had tried to arrange legal 
representation for Mr T, in line with the terms of his policy. But because of Mr Ts 
unreasonable behaviour, this representation had stopped. 
Our investigator thought there were times Aviva couldve progressed Mr Ts claim more 
quickly. But Mr Ts reluctance to settle the claim, and problems over his legal representation, 
had also contributed to the delay. Our investigator said Aviva hadnt deducted 50% of Mr Ts 
excess from the settlement, as it was entitled to do. And so, he thought Aviva had done 
enough to put right its shortcomings.  
Mr T disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He says CCTV 
footage was available and will show he wasnt responsible for the accident. Mr T was also 
concerned hed lost two years no claims discount, rather than one. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr T feels strongly about this complaint and so this will come as a 
disappointment to him. But as Ill go on to explain, I dont think Aviva has treated him 
unfairly. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
I agree with our investigator that Aviva met its contractual obligation to arrange legal 
representation for Mr T. And that there were several factors outside Avivas control that 
delayed the claim. Mr T hasnt disputed these points and so I wont comment on them further 
in this decision. In terms of Mr Ts question around his no claims discount, I cant see hes 
raised this directly with Aviva. But in general terms, its standard practice to lose two years 
no claims discount when a claim is made, and the discount is not protected.  If Mr T thinks 
this hasnt been applied correctly in his case, then he should raise that with Aviva. 
Mr Ts main concern is the evidence used by Aviva to conclude he was 50% liable for the 
accident. He maintains the accident wasnt his fault and says CCTV footage would prove 
that. 
This service doesnt decide liability for an accident; thats a matter for the courts. But we do 
consider whether an insurer, Aviva in this case, acted in accordance with the policy terms 
and made a fair decision.
Mr Ts policy says Aviva is entitled to take over and deal with a claim on his behalf and has 
the right to decide whether to accept liability for the accident. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies. And wed expect it to be applied fairly. So, Ive considered whether 
Aviva has treated Mr T fairly and reasonably when deciding who was at fault for the 
accident. 
Its clear Mr T and the other driver had differing accounts of what caused the accident and 
where it took place. But the lack of independent evidence to substantiate those accounts is 
also clear. I cant see any reference in the information Ive seen that Mr T and Aviva 
discussed whether CCTV footage of the accident was available. This is unfortunate, 
particularly given the differing accounts of how the accident happened. But Ive seen no 
evidence CCTV footage was available and overlooked, or that it wouldve be enough to 
show exactly how the accident happened. So, whilst it mightve been helpful to have 
investigated the availability of CCTV at the time, I cant say with any degree of certainty that 
not doing so has disadvantaged Mr T in the way he believes.  
Looking specifically at Avivas decision that Mr T was 50% liable for the accident  I dont 
think, based on the available evidence, this was unreasonable. I can see Aviva engaged with 
the third-party insurer, attempting on more than one occasion to settle the claim on the basis 
Mr T wasnt liable for the accident. But the third-party insurer didnt accept this given the 
other drivers testimony. Aviva also got expert legal advice which said it was likely a court 
would find Mr T 50% liable for the accident. Based on that advice, and the differing accounts 
of what happened, I dont think its unreasonable that Aviva took the view it wasnt confident 
a court case would result in a favourable outcome for Mr T, and that settling the claim based 
on joint liability was a reasonable and sensible way forward. 
I should also add that whilst agreeing to settle the claim, Aviva hasnt legally accepted Mr T 
was responsible for the accident. This allows Mr T the option of taking the case to court if he 
so wishes, and presenting any evidence be believes supports his position. 
Taking everything into account I cant say Avivas decision to treat Mr T as 50% liable for the 
accident was unfair. So, I wont be asking it to take any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman