DRN-3584508
The complaint
Mr Cs complained that a payment he tried to make to a subscription service was declined by 
Metro Bank PLC (Metro).
What happened
Mr C subscribes to a movie service, which he pays for monthly with a recurring card 
payment from his Metro account.
In April 2022, Mr C received a text asking him to confirm the payment to the movie service 
was genuine.  He was asked to text back either Y or N.  Mr C wasnt able to do that.  So 
he visited a Metro branch to confirm the payment was genuine.  
Mr C complained to Metro that the payment had been blocked and that hed not been able to 
reply to the text hed received because his mobile phone provider wouldnt allow this.  He 
said this had happened on a number of occasions and the movie company had suspended 
his subscription as a result.
Metro investigated and wrote to Mr C with their findings.  They said their system flags certain 
transactions as high risk and requires extra checks before the payment is made.  Metro said 
this is automated and not something they can control.  They apologised for the 
inconvenience the extra check had caused Mr C.  But they said this was done to protect their 
customers from falling victim to fraud.
With regard to Mr C not being able to respond to the text they sent, Metro noted Mr Cs 
feedback but said this was based on the contract between him and his mobile phone 
provider and not something they could control.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Metros response and brought his complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded Metro didnt need to do any more to resolve Mr Cs 
complaint.  He understood that Mr C had been inconvenienced by what had happened.  But 
he said that, before he could recommend they do more to resolve the complaint, he needed 
to be satisfied that blocking the payment was unfair and not in line with Metros terms and 
conditions.
The investigator said Metro have to take steps to prevent their customers being defrauded 
which is what theyd done here.  And he was satisfied Metros terms and conditions set out 
the circumstances in which they might stop a payment  and that theyd acted within those 
terms.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I know its frustrating when a payment you want to make is stopped.  But, as our investigator 
explained, that isnt necessarily unfair.  So Ive looked at what happened to see what Metro 
was responsible for  and whether I think they should have done anything differently.  
I can see Mr C has told us the payment to the movie service was declined several times.  
But only one transaction was referred to in the complaint.  So I asked the investigator to 
contact both parties to get more information about the extent of the problem.
Unfortunately, the investigators attempts to contact Mr C werent successful.  Metro did 
respond and told us their records dont date back as far as the time in question.  But they did 
say they have no notes of a payment being declined multiple times.  So I can only base my 
findings on the one transaction that occurred in April 2022.
Ive looked at Metros terms and conditions.  They include a section called When we may 
refuse to make a payment.  The relevant part says:
We may refuse to make a payment or suspend or stop your use of a payment service. If we 
are going to refuse to make a payment or suspend or stop your use of a payment service, 
we will try to contact you. (For a card payment, the organisation, retailer or cash machine will 
also tell you that the card has been refused.) We will tell you why we are taking this action 
and, if appropriate, what you can do to put things right.

If you consider that the reasons which led us to take this action no longer apply, you can 
contact us to ask that we allow the payment.
Im satisfied thats what happened here.  Mr C was notified by text that payment had been 
requested and asked him to confirm it was genuine.  Mr C did this by going to the branch 
and the payment was made.
Ive seen Mr C told Metro he thought they were deliberately blocking the payment.  While I 
understand why he may think this, Ive seen no evidence that suggests this was the case.  
Metro have explained the system that flags particular payments is automated and not 
something they control.  All banks have a system of this type to help them fulfil their 
regulatory obligations to take steps to prevent their customers being defrauded.  So I dont 
think Metro did anything wrong here.
Nor do I think I can say Metro were responsible for the fact Mr C couldnt respond to the text 
they sent him to check the payment was genuine.  I can see that no all mobile phone 
providers allow their users to respond to texts.  So, while I appreciate Mr C was 
inconvenienced by not being able to respond by text, I cant say that was Metros fault.  
I can see that Metro have noted this is something they should look at in the future.  And Ive 
seen that, as soon as Mr C went to a branch to confirm the payment was genuine, it was 
made.  In the circumstances, I dont think Metro need to do any more to resolve his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint about Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 Helen Stacey
Ombudsman