DRN-3047452
The complaint
Miss L complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund disputed transactions she says she 
didnt make or authorise. 
What happened
Miss L had a bank account with Monzo. She also held an account with another bank, which I 
will refer to as bank B. 
In April 2020, Miss L was out of work, so she made a benefit claim via the Department of 
Work and Pensions (DWP). DWP paid Miss Ls benefit funds into her account held with bank 
B, which was the registered account with DWP.
Following this, Miss L says she fell victim to a scam. Shes said that she received several 
calls from fraudsters purporting to be from DWP. And that she was offered an advance 
benefit payment. Miss Ls explained that during the calls she provided the fraudsters with 
details of her email address, bank account, and passwords associated with her DWP 
account. But she never provided her PIN relating to her Monzo bank account.
On 14 May 2020, Miss L logged into her Monzo account and transferred her entire balance 
of just over £760 out of her account and into her account with bank B.  Within a couple of 
hours of Miss L doing this, two payments of £340 and £1,130 were paid into the account 
Miss L had with bank B from DWP.
 
Miss L says remembers receiving a text alert from bank B, and that she wanted to put the 
money aside to save. So, she moved the money shed received from DWP into her Monzo 
bank account. Soon after doing this, the funds were transferred out of her Monzo account, in 
three separate transactions. Miss L says she never made these transactions.
DWP contacted Miss L and asked her to repay the money it had given her in May 2020. 
Miss L told DWP that shed never made the claims and had been the victim of a scam. She 
checked her DWP account and discovered that two claims had been made with false 
information. DWP said it couldnt do anything and told her to contact her bank. And said she 
still had to repay the money. So, Miss L went to Monzo and asked them to investigate. 
Monzo looked into the transactions and said it thought  Miss L authorised them. So, it didnt 
refund her. In summary, Monzo said:
 the payments were authenticated using Miss Ls PIN and there was no plausible 
explanation for how an unknown third party had become aware of the PIN
 Miss Ls PIN was needed to set up and authorise the three payments on 14 May 
2020 that she disputed
 a new device, which hadnt previously been verified by Miss L, accessed her 
account on 14 May 2020 
 Email links known as magic links were sent to Miss Ls email address which were 
needed to login to Miss Ls account via the mobile banking app to make the disputed 
transactions
 Miss L didnt contact Monzo to report the fraudulent activity until 30 June 2020, 
despite logging into her account prior to this date
 Miss L moved her entire balance shortly before the DWP payments came into her 
account, which suggested the activity was planned and done with Miss Ls 
knowledge and consent
Miss L disagreed with Monzos decision. She said she didnt authorise the transactions and 
was the victim of a cruel scam. She said she is now having to repay the money to DWP, 
which is going to take her a number of years to clear. She wants Monzo to refund her the 
money so that she can return it to DWP.  So, she brought her complaint to this service where 
one of our investigators looked into the matter.
 
In summary the investigator said that:
to make the payments access via the Monzo banking app was needed which 
required a magic link to be sent to the email address registered to the account
two magic links were sent to Miss Ls email address a few minutes before the 
disputed transactions were made
a new device was used to make the disputed transactions from a different IP address 
normally associated with Miss L, was set up on Miss Ls account shortly before the 
transactions were made
Monzos security processes required Miss Ls card PIN to be entered into the 
banking app to set up new payees and authenticate them. Only then could payments 
be made
Miss L said she hadnt disclosed her PIN to anyone  including during the phone 
calls Miss L said shed had with the fraudsters. So, theres no plausible explanation 
for how an unknown third party could have set up the new payees and make the 
disputed transactions
Miss L hadnt provided any evidence of her phone calls with the alleged fraudsters 
and there was no evidence that her account with bank B was compromised
theres no explanation for how an unknown third party wouldve known Miss L 
intended to move the DWP funds from bank B into her Monzo account
Miss L hasnt provided any explanation for why she moved her entire Monzo account 
balance out of the account into her account with bank B just before the DWP 
payments credited the account and the disputed transactions were made
Overall, the investigator concluded that it was more likely than not that Miss L had 
authorised the disputed transactions.
Miss L disagreed. She said the evidence clearly showed a third party had accessed her 
account and made the transactions. She maintained that she had been the victim of fraud 
and had reported what happened to Action Fraud. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the disputed transactions, 
the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Miss L and Monzo have read the 
investigators view. So, I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of 
my decision. However, I can assure  Miss L that Ive read the file, including her comments 
and evidence. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive and contradictory, I have to make a decision 
of the balance of probabilities  on what I consider to be more likely than not to have 
happened.
Generally speaking, Monzo can hold  Miss L liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that Miss L made them or authorised them. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). The PSRs also say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of  Miss L can be 
treated as acting with apparent authority when making transactions on her account. 
Miss L says she didnt make the disputed transactions. She says shes been the victim of 
fraud and was duped into disclosing personal information during phone calls. And that she 
was tricked into believing she was entitled to receive a DWP benefit advance. So, my 
primary concern is to come to a view about whether or not I think Miss L authorised the 
transactions.
For each transaction Monzo has been able to provide evidence to show the payments were 
appropriately authenticated using Miss Ls PIN. But thats not enough to hold Miss L liable. I 
also need to consider whether the evidence suggests she consented to the transactions. or 
whether she is the victim of fraud as shes alleged.
 
Having looked at all the evidence, Im not persuaded that Miss L has been the victim of fraud 
as shes suggested. And Im satisfied that  its more likely than not that Miss L authorised  
the transactions she is disputing. I say this because:
in order to set up new payees on Miss Ls account, her PIN had to be entered and 
verified. This means that whoever made the transactions needed to be in possession 
Miss Ls PIN. And Miss L has said she never disclosed this to anyone  including 
during her alleged phone calls with the DWP fraudsters
Miss L moved the DWP payments out of the account linked to her DWP profile and 
into her Monzo account. But there is no plausible explanation for how an unknown 
third party would be aware that Miss L had done this. And would have needed to 
access another of Miss Ls account to get their hands on the cash. The only person 
who was aware of this, was Miss L. Ive also kept in mind that according to Miss L, 
the fraudsters wouldve been aware of Miss Ls account with bank B, because this 
was linked to her DWP profile. So, they already had access to the account the money 
was paid into. But theres no evidence that this account was compromised
on 14 May 2020 between 1.08pm and 1.11pm, Miss L transferred her entire Monzo 
balance of just over £760, into her bank B account. When asked for an explanation 
about why she did this, Miss L said she couldnt remember. However, of significance 
is that just after Miss L did this, the alleged fraudulent activity commenced. Between 
1.19pm and 1.51pm the DWP payments were approved. At 1.28pm and 1.31pm 
magic links were sent to Miss Ls email address. At 1.32pm an unknown device is linked to Miss Ls Monzo account. At 1.59pm Miss L transferred the two DWP 
payments into her Monzo account from her bank B account. At 2.10pm, 2.34pm and 
2.49pm the funds were transferred out to three new payees. I think the timing of 
these actions is quite telling. And shows that the series of events were planned, well-
co-ordinated and protected Miss Ls existing funds. I think its therefore unlikely this 
couldve been achieved without Miss Ls knowledge and consent
So, when I weigh everything up, I find on balance, that  Miss L made or otherwise authorised 
the disputed transactions. It follows that Monzo is entitled to hold her liable for them. I know 
Miss L will be disappointed, but for the reasons Ive given I cant ask the bank to refund her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman