DRN-3610673
The complaint
Mr D brings this complaint as an appointed administrator of the estate of Mr W. Mr D 
complains Barclays Bank UK PLC asked him to sign an indemnity in order to close the bank 
accounts of the late Mr W, which he feels isnt necessary.  
What happened
Mr D was appointed as administrator with will, to the estate of the late Mr W. Mr D says 
when he instructed Barclays to close bank accounts held in the late Mr Ws name, he was 
asked to sign amongst other documentation a personal indemnity form (PIF). Mr D says he 
wasnt prepared to sign such an indemnity and there is no formal requirement for him to do 
so. Mr D says other institutions are prepared to accept the grant issued by the court as 
sufficient authority and Barclays have refused to provide him with a credible explanation why 
this is required, apart from it being part of its procedures and process. 
Additionally, Mr D says Barclays havent returned to him the original grant of letter of 
administration he sent them. 
Mr D wants Barclays to agree to close the accounts of the estate of Mr W without the 
requirement of the PIF. 
Barclays says it required the PIF to be signed by Mr D in his capacity as administrator of the 
estate of the late Mr W, and have explained to him that this is to protect the estate of the 
deceased and their beneficiaries. Barclays says this is part of its process and procedures in 
these circumstances and it is explained on its website. Barclays says it has informed Mr D of 
this on several occasions and can only close the accounts once the indemnity is signed. 
Barclays says it did scan a copy of the original sealed letter of administration and this would 
have been returned to Mr D after that. 
Mr D wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Barclays had acted fairly when it asked Mr D to sign the PIF as this was part 
of its standard process detailed on its website. The investigator pointed out he couldnt tell 
Barclays what processes or procedures it must adopt in these circumstances. The 
investigator says while Barclays initially said it had no record of receiving the original letter of 
administration from Mr D, it had subsequently confirmed it had received it and scanned it into 
its systems in early May 2021 and returned the document shortly after. 
The investigator didnt feel Barclays had done anything wrong.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I was sorry to learn of the passing of the late Mr W and then, subsequently during the course 
of this investigation, hearing the sad news the beneficiary of his estate, the wife of the late 
Mr W, had also sadly passed away and that no doubt would be upsetting for Mr D. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr D to be told he was required to sign a 
PIF before the monies in the late Mr Ws accounts could be released. When looking at this 
complaint I will consider if Barclays acted unfairly when asking for the PIF to be signed. I will 
also consider whether or not Barclays was at fault for Mr D not receiving back the original 
sealed grant of letter of administration, he sent them in late April 2021. 
The first thing to say is both Barclays and Mr D have provided this service with 
comprehensive documentation and written opinion on this complaint and while that has 
proved helpful here, I wont be commenting on every point made by either party, as I dont 
feel its necessary to come to a full and impartial decision. Thats not to say I havent 
considered these -I have. 
There are two main aspects to Mr Ds complaint, firstly and the centre of his complaint is that 
Barclays have insisted that he as administrator to the estate of the late Mr W, signs a PIF 
and without any clear explanation why it is needed. Secondly Mr D is unhappy Barclays 
havent returned the original sealed letter of administration he sent them in late April 2021, 
after having said it hadnt received it and referred only to a will being received, which Mr D 
says he never sent them.
Mr D feels the grant of letter of administration appointing him is sufficient and there is no 
regulatory requirement for him to sign such a document, even though Barclays suggested 
there was. Mr D has also made the point other banks havent insisted on this and Barclays 
are using its process as a reason to insist on this, without any reason or valid explanation 
behind it. While I understand the points Mr D has made Im not fully persuaded by his 
argument.
I say this because while I can see Barclays perhaps were unclear when it initially suggested 
it was a regulatory requirement, I am satisfied in all probability, Barclays were talking of an 
internal regulation/ process. That said it doesnt alter the fact part of its process when 
dealing with closing deceased customers accounts, whether with or without probate, is for a 
PIF to be signed by the appointed representative of that estate. The investigator provided Mr 
D with a link to Barclays website under Documents well need to close the account and 
here it clearly states the PIF will be required. I can see Mr D has provided an extract on 
Barclays procedures when closing a savings bond, suggesting it makes no mention of a PIF 
there, but its fair to say this is a brief outline of what is needed and not the full details of 
what documents are required to meet these requirements, these are in more detail on the 
website referred to earlier. 
So while perhaps its understandable, Mr D having read the PIF wasnt willing to sign it, what 
Im being asked here is to tell Barclays it must change or remove part of its process and 
procedures  but thats not the role of this service, that would be for the regulator the 
Financial Conduct Authority to consider. While Mr D may not agree, I can only consider if he 
has been treated unfairly based on the procedures and process in place  and I cant say he 
has here, after all this process applies to all of Barclays customers. 
Mr D doesnt feel Barclays have provided a satisfactory reason why it requires the PIF to be signed, but all I can say is Barclays have stated it is there to protect the estate of the 
deceased and their beneficiaries, while Mr D may not agree, I am satisfied this does provide 
a reasonable explanation for its requirement here.  
As far as the other part of Mr Ds complaint is concerned regarding the return of the original 
sealed letter of administration he sent them, I have been provided with confirmation from 
Barclays to say it did receive this in early May 2021 and scanned it into their systems and 
would have returned it a few days later. 
I understand Mr D is of the view Barclays may have shredded this original document, but I 
have no evidence to support this and see no reason to say thats what happened here. 
There was some confusion as to whether Barclays received this document initially and from 
looking at previous notes on file, it seems in all probability it has confused this document with 
the will it originally suggested says it received around this time  while I feel Barclays should 
have been clearer on this point and its overall administration perhaps could have been 
better, I dont feel this in itself would necessarily warrant a compensation payment, as this 
isnt behind why the accounts werent closed. 
So, with all that in mind, I cant say Barclays are at fault for asking for the PIF to be signed 
and while Mr D will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of it here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman