DRN-3788986
Complaint
Miss N has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected her claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Miss N bought a solar panel system (the system) for her home in 2019. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions 
of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer 
misleading Miss N into believing that the system would be self-funding, which they werent.
Miss Ns complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the system were mis-represented to Miss N, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. 
Ikano initially accepted our adjudicators view of the complaint and made an offer. The 
redress calculation was challenged by Miss Ns representative to ensure it was calculated in 
line with our established approach to redress in these types of cases. 
In response, Ikano withdrew its offer saying it felt the documents had made it clear the 
system would not be self-funding. 
The case was then reviewed by an investigator and she agreed with our initial adjudicators 
view of the complaint and thought the complaint should be upheld in Miss Ns favour for 
much the same reasons. 
Ikano didnt agree, so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
I understand Ikano points out that there is an estimated returns document  which is only 
one page long. This sets out that Miss N could expect to receive between £55.98 and 
£111.97 in benefit annually. Her credit agreement sets out that her monthly payments was 
£79.44  so Ikano felt it would have been clear to her that the system would not be self-
funding. 
I can see the estimated benefits were made clear on the estimated returns page  but no 
where does it mention the cost of the system on this document. So, Miss N would have had 
to look at another document (her credit agreement) to figure out that the benefits would not 
be sufficient to cover the costs of the loan. I can also see Miss N was given a significant 
number of documents during the sale and, not one single document compares the cost with 
her benefit in real financial terms. Her validation sheet for example, does set out her cost but 
her annual benefit is set out as a SAP figure. 
Given her lack of experience in how solar panels worked, I dont think its fair to expect 
Miss N to navigate her way through such a significant number of documents, facts and 
figures. Instead, I think Miss N was entitled to rely on what she was being told by the installer 
and she says she was told the system would be self-funding. 
The estimated returns page sets out Miss N is only expected to receive benefit in the form of 
reduction in her energy bills. This is because the Feed in Tariff (FIT) scheme had already 
closed to new applicants before Miss Ns sale and the new Smart Export Guarantee (SEG), 
had not yet started. Miss N has since discovered she isnt able to receive SEG payments. 
Miss N has provided copies of text messages she sent to the sales representative of the 
installer from before and immediately after the installation of the system asking for further 
information and help in applying for export payments for her unused energy. She sent 
several chasers to the representatives asking for information and support  but these went 
unanswered. The nature of her text messages indicate that she believed shed receive an 
income from the system. Had the representative made it clear she wouldnt be entitled to 
these payments, or had it not been discussed, I would have expected him to have replied to 
her to clarify shed only receive benefit in the form of reduction in her bills. 
Miss N also sent an email to the installer directly explaining shed been assured she would 
receive export payments and asked it to help her obtain the certificates needed to apply for 
them. I can see Miss N also emailed her energy supplier to ask for help in applying for such 
payments. These were all sent shortly after the installation of the system so are 
contemporaneous evidence. 
Overall based on Miss Ns consistent testimony, and the evidence shes submitted, Im not 
satisfied that the estimated benefit page and credit agreement accurately reflects the full 
extent of the discussions she had with the sales representative in this case. 
I think its clear that Miss N believed she would receive income of some kind on top of the 
reduction in her bills and bought the system on that basis. She also spent a considerable 
amount of time and effort trying to sign up for it. I dont believe Miss N would have behaved 
in this way if had she been correctly told that she wouldnt be receiving any income other 
than savings on her bills (as set out by the estimated returns page). I think given the lack of 
responses from the installers representative, that its more likely, he hadnt made it clear 
shed only receive benefit in the form of reductions in her energy bills. 
I think this adds significant weight to the assertion that the documents submitted by Ikano, 
do not fully reflect the nature of the discussions Miss N had with this representative. I think 
Miss Ns testimony is reliable and find her evidence overall more persuasive. And as 
explained above, she has repeatedly said she was assured the system would be self- 
funding due to the reduction in her energy bills and payments she was to receive for the 
unused energy the system produced. 
So, having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those 
explained by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence 
supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Miss N was not given clear 
information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate 
to an additional cost for her.So, I think that Ikano didnt treat Miss N fairly and she lost out because of what Ikano did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Ikano needs to do to put things right for Miss N
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ns complaint for Ikano to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Miss N from the solar panels 
over the 10 year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Miss N is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have Ikano needs to reimburse Miss N accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Miss N by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Ikano to 
restructure Miss Ns loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Miss N in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Miss Ns monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she wouldve paid more each month than she shouldve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Usually the recalculation would include a reduction for the benefit a consumer has received
from the solar panel system including payments received from the FIT scheme or SEG 
payments. But as explained above, Miss N has not received any payments from either of 
these. So, in these circumstances, I dont think its fair that any payments are included in the 
recalculation.
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Miss N have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Miss N and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Miss N and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.If Miss N accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept
If Miss N has settled the loan, Ikano should pay Miss N the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Miss N has settled the loan by refinancing, Miss N should supply evidence of the refinance 
to Ikano, and Ikano should: 
1. Refund the extra Miss N paid each month with the Ikano loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Miss N receives her refund.
3. Refund the extra Miss N paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Miss N receives her refund.
5. Pay Miss N the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Miss N first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I can also see that Ikano 
has initially declined the claim, then made an offer and then withdrew the offer, all based on 
the same documentation. I can see Miss Ns complaint was initially raised in January 2020 
and shes suffered significant inconvenience throughout. I direct that Ikano should pay £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ns complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman