DRN-3025666
The complaint
Mr C complains about what happened when he asked American Express Services Europe
Limited (Amex) to help him get a refund for goods which had arrived damaged.
What happened
Mr C bought five bottles of alcohol at a total cost of £2,112.99 in June 2019. He paid using
his Amex charge card.
On 1 July 2019 when the bottles were delivered, Mr C said three of the five bottles were
damaged. Mr C emailed the supplier on 1 July 2019 and provided photo evidence to show
that the parcel had arrived damaged. The supplier responded on 2 July 2019 asking for
further pictures which Mr C provided. On 3 July 2019, the supplier emailed Mr C and said it
wanted to see the necks of all the three bottles that he said were broken. Mr C said that hed
already cleaned up the broken glasses and had no further evidence to provide.
Mr C then contacted Amex and asked it to raise a chargeback under goods/services not as
described or defective. Mr C said he wanted a refund of £1,267.80 for the three damaged
bottles. Amex raised a chargeback and applied a credit of £1,267.80 to Mr Cs account, but
the supplier defended the chargeback. The supplier said it still needed evidence of the
damage to the three bottles to be able to provide a refund or replacement to Mr C. Amex
contacted Mr C and explained that the chargeback had been unsuccessful, as a result of
what the supplier had provided. It removed the previous credited amount and told Mr C that
he could take this further with the supplier directly if he wanted to do so.
In October 2019, Mr C contacted Amex again and said he had further information to support
his dispute. Although Amex received further pictures from Mr C, it said he hadnt provided
this to the supplier and so it wouldnt do anything further in relation to the chargeback.
Mr C went back to the supplier, as Amex had suggested, but said he received no response.
Amex maintained its position and didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said the supplier
was willing to work with Mr C to process a refund, or provide a replacement, but Mr C hadnt
sent the required evidence to the supplier so Amex said it couldnt do any more.
Mr C remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt
think the complaint should be upheld. They said that it wasnt unreasonable for the supplier 
to ask for further evidence, or for Amex to decline to pursue the chargeback any further on
behalf of Mr C based on the available evidence.
Mr C disagreed and said he didnt think it was reasonable to expect him not to tidy up the 
broken package. He said the broken glass was dangerous and that the alcohol was causing 
a strong smell in his home. He also said it was wrong for Amex to say that the supplier 
hadnt received any proof of damage and thought the supplier was lying. Mr C said that if the
supplier was acting in good faith, then why hadnt it offered to refund even the cost of one
bottle. Mr C clarified that when he received the bottles, two of the bottles were empty and
one was damaged but not empty.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are different ways that a bank can assist customers who have had issues with goods
or services not as described or defective. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a
refund from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment
settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants. They are dealt with
under the relevant card scheme rules. In certain circumstances the process provides a way
for Amex to ask for a payment Mr C made to be refunded. Those circumstances include
where goods received are not as described or are defective.
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is some prospect of success.
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time - usually around a
month - for the supplier to reply to say whether or not it agrees to the refund. And when a
supplier does defend a chargeback, the process then allows for further representations to be
made, and if the parties still do not agree, the issue can be decided by the scheme in a
process known as arbitration.
With regard to representment and arbitration, there is again no obligation on a card issuer to
take these further steps if the initial chargeback is defended. But, if, for example, the defence
from the supplier is weak and/or the consumers evidence is very strong and there is a
reasonable prospect of success, I would consider it good practice to pursue the chargeback
further.
In considering whether AMEX did enough in respect of the chargeback process, Id usually
take into account the relevant scheme rules, but AMEX has declined to provide a complete
copy of its relevant rules and chargeback guidance.
Although it has provided the definition of one of the dispute codes, it hasnt sent me a full list
of the different dispute codes, which it can use on its customers behalf to seek refunds from
suppliers, or details of things, like relevant information requirements, for the chargeback
ground.
Amexs response here is particularly disappointing as it hampers my ability to review clearly
key information. This makes it difficult for me to assess, for example, whether another code
might have been more suitable or whether Amex could have gone on to do more for Mr C.
However, in the absence of the full chargeback rules, Ive given consideration to the
chargeback rules used by other card schemes, as I think its likely that the Amex chargeback 
rules follow a similar approach. And I will set this out as a provisional decision, inviting
comments from both sides before I reach a final decision.
I can see that when Mr C contacted Amex initially about the damaged bottles, Amex raised
the chargeback under the reason code for goods and services not as described or defective,
and I think this was likely the correct code for it to use. The issue for me to decide here 
however is whether Amex acted fairly and reasonably in choosing not to pursue the dispute
any further after the supplier had defended the chargeback.When the supplier provided information to Amex to defend the chargeback, Amex told Mr C
the chargeback was unsuccessful and left it to Mr C to contact the supplier directly to get a
refund. Whilst Mr C did ultimately go on to do this, he says the supplier didnt respond to
him. Amex also maintained its position and told Mr C that as he hadnt been able to provide
the supplier with what it required, it couldnt pursue the chargeback further. However, I dont
think that was fair, and Ill explain why.
Having looked carefully at the pictures Mr C sent to our service and considering the
documentation he supplied, I think its clear that some of the items Mr C received were
damaged. From the pictures you can see that at least one bottle was completely broken and
empty, and at least one other bottle was damaged, even though it wasnt empty. And from
the pictures, it appears that all the bottles may have also been soaked in alcohol from the
breakage and so, I am satisfied that from the outset there was clear evidence that damage
had been caused to the goods that Mr C had received.
Ive also noted that Mr C sent pictures of the damage to the supplier, but that the supplier
didnt tell Amex this. From looking through Amexs file to us, when the supplier defended the
chargeback, the supplier seemed to suggest that it had received no photo evidence from Mr
C. And that seems to be how Amex also read the response, as it went on to say to Mr C that
the merchant advised us that no proof of damage has been provided to them. I dont
consider this to be a fair representation of what had been provided, particularly as Amex had
also received photos from Mr C which clearly showed that some damage was done to at
least two of the bottles which hed received.
And even if Amex had incorrectly assumed that Mr C hadnt sent the photographic evidence
to the supplier, I think Amex had the necessary photographic evidence to challenge the
suppliers assertion that there was no proof of damage to at least some of the bottles. For 
those reasons, I think its unreasonable for Amex to have accepted the suppliers word
that no picture evidence had been sent to support the chargeback, and not to take it to the
next stage of the chargeback process, to help get some or all of Mr Cs money back for the
damaged goods.
So, I have thought about what would likely have happened, if Amex had robustly pursued the
chargeback as I think it ought to have.
Ive explained that from the evidence Ive seen, its clear Mr C didnt get five bottles in
pristine condition. I think had Amex moved to the next stage of the chargeback process, the
chargeback for the cost of at least one bottle wouldve been successful as it was clearly
damaged, broken, and empty.
I also think it wouldve been reasonable to expect some level of refund on a second bottle,
which may have been full but was still clearly damaged. I appreciate that with a luxury item
like this, considerable amount of value is likely to be in the presentation, but from what Mr C
has said, and looking at the pictures, the contents werent empty. And so, whilst he may not
be inclined to display the bottle in his home, or give it as a gift, I consider that Mr C wouldve
still been able to use the contents of the bottle as it wasnt empty. And so, for this second
bottle, I think perhaps a partial refund wouldve been likely if Amex had pursued the 
chargeback robustly and I think that would have been a fair outcome in all the
circumstances.
In terms of the third broken bottle that Mr C mentions was broken and empty, unfortunately
from looking at the pictures, its difficult for me to say with any certainty whether there was a
third broken bottle, or if it was one of the other broken bottles, which had just been
photographed from a different angle.I appreciate Mr C cant provide any further pictures now. But given what Ive already said
about the pictures not being clear, and taking into account the value of the goods, I dont
think I can fairly ask Amex to refund all three bottles without there being clear evidence that
three bottles were broken, which perhaps would have been achieved by all three broken
bottles appearing in one picture. And without any such evidence being available at the time,
Im not satisfied that a chargeback for the third bottle wouldve been successful if it had been
pursued further by Amex.
Ive also considered what the general position is in relation to returning defective or
damaged goods when a consumer is looking to their bank to raise a chargeback. Usually, it
would be necessary for the consumer to return the goods, before a dispute can be initiated. 
But in this case, based on the communication that I have seen between all parties, I am
satisfied there was agreement that the goods didnt need to be returned and which I think
was understandable given the nature of the breakage. This makes it all the more important
that the photographs were sufficient for Mr C to demonstrate the extent of the damage to the
bottles in question.
And so overall, taking everything into consideration, whilst the pictures may not have been
clear enough to confirm three bottles were damaged, I am satisfied that both the supplier
and Amex had sufficient evidence to demonstrate that at least two of the bottles arrived
damaged. I therefore think that the suppliers defence to the chargeback was weak and Mr C
had provided sufficiently strong enough evidence for Amex to have pursued matters further.
And so, I think Amex acted unfairly and unreasonably in not pursuing the chargeback further.
Its no longer possible for Amex to pursue the chargeback, because of the time thats
passed, and as a result I think Amex has unfairly deprived Mr C of the opportunity of having
his money refunded. 
Based on what I have said above, I think its more likely than not that the chargeback would 
have partially succeeded and would have resulted in a partial refund to Mr C had Amex 
robustly pursued the chargeback, based on the information Mr C had provided it with.
I accept what Mr C has said about going back to the supplier on 28 March 2020 and 6 April
2020 as suggested by Amex but still receiving no refund. And so, I consider a fair resolution
now would be for Amex to pay £633.90 to Mr C to cover the cost of one and a half bottles,
plus 8% simple yearly interest. Interest is to be applied from the date Amex declined the
chargeback until the date of settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Amex accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr C responded and in summary explained:
For luxury goods that were of high value, discontinued and could also be seen in 
a public auction, that an ordinary person would be more likely to preserve such 
an item unopened and in a sealed condition as opposed to consuming it as a 
beverage.
The authenticity of a product would be questionable to third parties once the 
security seal had been broken like in the case of his whiskey bottle and that an 
empty bottle in a good condition could be resold but the same could not be said 
for a broken bottle. 
As the packaging was a significant driver of the price of the whiskey bottle, it was 
unfair that Amex would only need to pay 50% for the broken bottle. Mr C 
considered 75-80% compensation to be fairer, and said he was willing to offer the bottle of whisky back to Amex in exchange for a 100% compensation plus 
interest.
Even though the chargeback was not guaranteed to succeed, there were many 
times that Amex decided to ignore the evidence he had presented. He felt the 
supplier took advantage of this bias treatment and this was the reason for why it 
no longer replied to his emails. 
Amex treated him unfairly, had given him misinformation about the solution to his 
dispute with the supplier, and the whole process was time-consuming causing 
him a lot of stress. To compensate for the poor service, he thought Amex should 
pay £100 and a link to a case study from the Ombudsman Services website was 
also provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Cs further comments, but I wont be departing from my original findings from 
my provisional decision. I have explained why below. 
Mr C has mentioned why he feels for one of the damaged bottles the compensation of 50% 
doesnt seem fair and it should be more around the region of 75-80% given that it was going 
to be potentially used as a collectors item and/or be resold at an auction later. 
I keep in mind that I am considering what Mr C would reasonably have been able to recover 
via the chargeback process here. And this is narrower in scope than say a claim for breach 
of contract under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 where the range of remedies 
is wider. Mr C says the majority of the value of the whiskey he purchased is in its packaging 
and presentation. I also have to take into account however that the whiskey in the bottle was 
preserved despite the damage and this also has value too. Without evidence to suggest 
otherwise I still find that 50% is a reasonable representation of the defective part of the 
broken bottle Mr C was supplied with.
In terms of the poor service, which Mr C has detailed, firstly I must say I can only consider 
the conduct between Amex and Mr C. I wont be able to consider or comment on the service 
Mr C received from the supplier. 
In terms of how Amex dealt with his complaint, it raised the chargeback when Mr C first 
approached it and I cant say it did anything incorrect when raising this for Mr C. Whilst I 
appreciate Mr C is unhappy that the chargeback was declined, and he was subsequently 
told to contact the supplier directly, its important to note that the chargeback scheme is a 
voluntary scheme and there is no legal requirement to take things further, when a 
chargeback is declined. And even when pursued there is still no guarantee that a claim will 
be successful. And so simply declining to take a chargeback further, after it had been 
defended, wouldnt be a reason to provide compensation for poor service. 
In Mr Cs case, whilst I did agree that Amex shouldve taken the chargeback claim further, 
given the evidence Mr C had provided, I did also award 8% interest in my provisional 
decision from the date Amex declined the claim until it settles it. And so, I am satisfied that 
this would cover any loss Mr C would have incurred as a result of Amex not pursuing the 
chargeback sooner. 
Mr C also mentioned other service failings from Amex, in his response to my provisional 
decision, and whilst I accept Amex could have done more with the chargeback, I havent 
seen any persuasive evidence to demonstrate poor service overall from Amex which would warrant any compensation. I appreciate Mr C also provided a case study link, taken from our 
website, but its important to note that we look at each case on its own individual merits and 
in Mr Cs case, I dont consider any further compensation is due for the service he received 
from Amex.
My final decision
I uphold this decision and I direct American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mr C 
£633.90 plus 8% simple yearly interest from the date it declined the chargeback until the 
date of settlement.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Farhana Akhtar
Ombudsman