DRN-3746853
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) has offered them higher interest
rates on their mortgage unfairly.
What happened
In 2008 Mr and Mrs M took a two-year fixed rate mortgage deal with BoI. Their rate was
fixed at 5.99% until December 2010. They borrowed around £380,500 over 20 years on
interest only terms. Mr and Mrs M self-certified their income. No proof of income was
required by BoI to approve the loan. In December 2010 their mortgage reverted to BoIs
standard variable rate (SVR).
Mr and Mrs M say that over the years theyve been unable to switch from the SVR to a lower
interest rate because they didnt meet BoIs affordability criteria. They complained to BoI
about being trapped on the SVR since their fixed rate expired in 2010 and not being given
access to BoIs lower prime rates.
BoI didnt uphold the complaint. It said the first record it had of Mr and Mrs M calling to
discuss a rate switch was in August 2016. To switch from a self-certified rate to a prime rate,
any application would be subject to affordability and underwriting checks. And, having
assessed Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances in 2016, they werent eligible for the prime
products. BoI didnt think Mr and Mrs M had been treated unfairly because they were offered
new interest rates from the self-certified range, albeit not as competitive as theyd like.
BoI says no further contact was made until Mid-2017. Another affordability assessment was
carried out. This time Mr and Mrs M provided additional income information from their rental
properties. This income information wasnt previously provided in 2016 and significantly
increased their joint income by around £80,000. As such they now passed BoIs affordability
assessment. To proceed with the switch to a prime rate, BoI asked for further evidence to
confirm their income. Mr and Mrs M didnt proceed with their application. Instead they
redeemed their mortgage with BoI in late 2017 and remortgaged with a different lender.
Unhappy with BoIs response, Mr and Mrs M used a representative to bring their complaint
to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Mr and Mrs M had
been treated fairly and the same as other self-certified customers in 2016 and 2017 when
they enquired about new rates. He said there was no evidence to suggest any earlier rate
switch applications were made with BoI and fair affordability assessments were carried out
to accommodate a potential switch to prime products.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. They say they did try switching their rate before 2016 and that
BoI is deliberately concealing earlier call records to make the outcome of this case go in its
favour. They say that during earlier calls BoI told them it couldnt offer them a new rate and
referred them to a broker instead. The broker told them theyd unlikely meet eligibility outside
of BoI either, so their options were limited.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ms response but explained why his opinion
remained unchanged. Because an agreement wasnt reached, the case was
passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was satisfied part of this complaint had been 
brought out of time when considering the relevant rules. Our service does have the power to 
consider the events that occurred in the six years leading up to the complaint being made. 
An extract of my provisional findings on this part of the complaint is below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The earliest evidence BoI has of Mr and Mrs M calling to discuss switching their 
interest rate is August 2016. Its from this date Ive focused my decision as Mr and 
Mrs M havent told our service of any other attempts to switch rates in the six years 
leading up to their complaint.
As such, to date, Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr and Mr M were unfairly 
declined a lower interest rate before 2016 or that their mortgage remained on the 
SVR as a result of unfair treatment by BoI. So, Ive considered the events from 2016 
onwards and whether Mr and Mrs M were treated fairly at the time of this application 
and subsequently in 2017.
BoI has shared with us its criteria for dealing with new interest rate applications from
existing borrowers. BoI says that if a self-certified borrower wanted to later convert 
their mortgage to a prime product, that would be treated as a new borrower 
application. As the borrowers income would need to be verified for the first time. The 
applicant(s) would need to meet BoIs standard lending criteria and go through a full 
affordability assessment for its prime mortgages as of the time of the application.
When Mrs M enquired about switching rates in 2016 and 2017, Im satisfied BoI 
clearly explained the process. On both occasions the difference between prime rates 
and self-certified interest rates were discussed and Mr and Mrs M were told they 
could technically apply for prime rates on the basis that theyd both been employed 
for some years.
In line with BoIs process, income and expenditure information was taken on both 
occasions to assess eligibility and affordability for the prime products. BoI says that 
Mr and Mrs M provided different income information in 2016 and 2017 which made a 
difference to its lending decisions (subject to income verification) at the time. But Im 
not satisfied Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances were properly considered in 2016 which 
led to the declined application to switch to a prime rate. Ill explain why.
In October 2016 during the pre-advice call BoI asked Mrs M for some initial income 
and expenditure information. Mrs M said both her and Mr M were employed earning a 
gross salary of £24,000 and £65,000 respectively. BoI asked Mrs M if she had any 
other income, to which she replied no. Mrs M said that Mr M did at time receive 
bonus and overtime payments, but she couldnt confirm the amounts.
It was agreed that Mrs M would gather any necessary missing information in 
preparation for the fact find appointment arranged for later that day. BoIs records 
show that it was noted Mrs M has several other properties but she did not have the 
details, she hopefully will have them when the advisor calls.
During the fact find appointment later that day, the self-certification interest rates werediscussed further. Mrs M expressed her surprise at how high they were. She asked 
what the prime interest rates were and if they could switch to a lower rate from that 
product range.
Quite soon into the conversation the advisor told Mrs M that shed already put the 
previously provided income and expenditure information through an affordability 
calculator, and they didnt meet eligibility to switch to anything other than an interest 
rate from the self-certified range. As such Mrs M chose to end the call and an 
application didnt proceed.
Its unclear to me why a lending decision was made without a full affordability 
assessment being carried out. At the very least BoI knew that Mrs M didnt have all 
the necessary information available at the time of the pre-advice call, so it relied on 
partial information when providing a lending decision. In any event the purpose of the 
fact find is to carry out a more thorough affordability assessment. Im satisfied this 
didnt happen.
BoI says Mrs M wasnt forthcoming with the information about their rental income. But 
upon listening to the pre-advice call its clear Mrs M misunderstood the question when 
she was asked about other income. She thought the question to mean other income 
from her employer, as she responded to say as she works for a charity, shes not in 
receipt of any additional pay on top of her basic salary.
Im persuaded that had a full fact find been carried out its more likely Mr and Mrs Ms 
rental income would be disclosed. BoI knew Mr and Mrs M had several other 
investment properties. BoI as the professional party here should have asked the 
direct question about rental income which I think would have prompted Mrs M to 
provide that information.
BoI agrees the rental properties werent discussed further with Mrs M. Had this 
income been taken into account I think its likely theyd have passed affordability, as 
they did in 2017, as their circumstances remained largely the same.
I appreciate the application to switch to a prime rate and any subsequent mortgage 
offer would still be subject to full underwriting. Mr and Mrs M didnt proceed with their 
application to switch to a prime rate with BoI in 2017 so I cant say for certain theyd 
be accepted. But when considering everything I think its more likely theyd be 
approved as they were able to remortgage with a different lender on prime terms at 
that time.
So, when considering everything I dont think BoI treated Mr and Mrs M fairly in 2016. 
Im persuaded if theyd been given a fair chance to apply for a prime rate they would 
have done so to reduce their monthly contractual payments as intended. Instead, as a 
result of being given unclear and misleading information they remained on a higher 
SVR rate until their mortgage was redeemed in late 2017.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, BoI didnt make its prime rates fully accessible to Mr 
and Mrs M in 2016.
To account for the overpayments made whilst remaining on the SVR From October 
2016 to the date of redemption, BoI should:Confirm the lowest prime rates available to Mr and Mrs M in October 2016  with 
and without a product fee.
Depending on Mr and Mrs Ms rate of choice (taking into account any product fee 
applicable of the relevant rate opted for), Pay Mr and Mrs M the relevant 
overpayment amount back in cash, as well as a payment of 8% simple interest* 
calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement; and
Pay Mr and Mrs M £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused of having to pay a higher mortgage payment for 12 months and the 
trouble of having to remortgage with another lender unnecessarily.
Any ERC that would have been retrospectively applied due to the re-mortgage 
should be waived as Mr and Mrs M werent able to make an informed choice 
about the timing of their move given the unfair treatment by BoI.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If BoI considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs 
M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing this 
if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold part of this complaint and direct Bank 
of Ireland (UK) Plc to respond to my query about the available prime interest rates in 
2016 by the deadline of 6 October 2022 and put things right thereafter as set out 
above.
Both parties provided their responses to my provisional decision. In summary:
Mr and Mrs M mainly agreed with the provisional findings, but they thought they should be 
awarded more compensation in the circumstances. They asked me to reconsider the 
information theyve given about the several attempts they say they made to switch rates with 
BoI over the years, which supplements what, they refer to as, the limited information BoI can 
provide prior to 2016. Mr and Mrs M say that the information theyve provided, albeit limited, 
should be taken into account when deciding a compensation award for distress and 
inconvenience suffered.
BoI didnt agree with the provisional findings including the redress award. 
It said that that whilst a full fact-find wasnt carried out during the call with Mrs M in 2016, she 
could have proactively offered information about their additional income herself. If unhappy 
with the interest rates offered at that time, Mr and Mrs M had the option of refinancing with a 
different lender without incurring an ERC. BoI didnt agree that it should pay Mr and Mrs M 
the difference in mortgage payments following a retrospective rate adjustment, or that in any 
event, it would reasonably be able to reconstruct a hypothetical scenario due to the several 
variables that applied within its product range at that time.
BoI doesnt agree that it should pay compensation to Mr and Mrs M for moving their 
mortgage to a different lender. BoI says they were offered a prime interest rate (subject to 
application) in 2017. They would have needed to follow the same process whether internally 
or externally to secure a new prime interest rate. It was their choice to remortgage with a 
different lender in the circumstances. No additional distress or inconvenience was caused to 
them.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my 
decision, including those in response to the provisional decision.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. Ill now address the specific points raised in response to the 
provisional decision.
I can assure Mr and Mrs M that Ive already considered the call log information that they 
provided as part of their initial submissions. As explained in my provisional decision, our 
service does not have the power to consider anything that happened before May 2012. Ive 
already considered everything that happened after that date when reaching my provisional 
findings and making a compensation award. This centres round everything that happened 
in 2016 and 2017. Neither party has any record of any other calls taking place between 
May 2012 and August 2016. Therefore, I see no reason to reconsider the redress award for 
the reasons presented by Mr and Mrs M. 
BoI accepts it got things wrong in 2016 by not completing a full fact find before telling Mr 
and Mrs M that they didnt qualify for a prime interest rate. As a result, Mrs M was given 
wrong information and advice from Bol. Ive already explained in my provisional decision 
what the implications of BoIs failing were and why its not fair or reasonable to hold Mr and 
Mrs M responsible in the circumstances. 
Ive considered BoIs point about Mr and Mrs M being free to explore options with other 
lenders instead of remaining on BoIs SVR. Whilst in theory, I dont disagree, the main 
issue here is that BoI didnt give Mr and Mrs M a fair chance to apply for a prime interest 
rate in 2016. Had they received the right information and advice at that time, Mr and Mrs M 
would have been able to make an informed decision about whether to remain with BoI or 
not. Again, Im not prepared to decide that BoI shouldnt be held accountable for its failing 
because of something Mr and Mrs M did or didnt do off the back of the wrong advice they 
received. I dont accept that the redress direction is something BoI cant do, as its not an 
unusual expectation or one that lenders, including BoI havent done in the past. 
I except an internal and external application to switch to a prime interest rate would require 
broadly the same process, but do feel Mr and Mrs M should be compensated to account for 
the fact that, had they been treated fairly in 2016, they would have been able to sort their 
financial affairs at that time without needing to revisit their options again the following year 
 taking both more time and effort. During that period they continued to make higher 
payments on the SVR and had to make further enquiries again both with BoI and externally 
with an independent broker, unnecessarily. 
As such, my decision on how to put things right remains the same.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, BoI didnt make its prime rates fully accessible to Mr and 
Mrs M in 2016.
To account for the overpayments made whilst remaining on the SVR From October 2016 
to the date of redemption, BoI should:Confirm the lowest prime rates available to Mr and Mrs M in October 2016  with 
and without a product fee.
Depending on Mr and Mrs Ms rate of choice (taking into account any product fee 
applicable of the relevant rate opted for), Pay Mr and Mrs M the relevant 
overpayment amount back in cash, as well as a payment of 8% simple interest* 
calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement; and
Pay Mr and Mrs M £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused of having to pay a higher mortgage payment for 12 months and the 
trouble of having to remortgage with another lender unnecessarily.
Any ERC that would have been retrospectively applied due to the re-mortgage 
should be waived as Mr and Mrs M werent able to make an informed choice 
about the timing of their move given the unfair treatment by BoI.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If BoI considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs M 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing this if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman