DRN-3869293
The complaint
Mr O says the advice given and the arrangements made by St. Jamess Place Wealth 
Management PLC (SJP) to switch his two occupational money purchase plans and a 
personal pension into a Retirement Account were unsuitable.
What happened
The advice Mr O complains about was provided by the firm William John Peoples which is 
an Appointed Representative (AR) of SJP. As the principle firm, SJP is responsible for any 
acts and omissions of its AR. For simplicity, I will refer to SJP in my decision.
Mr and Mrs O had been a client of their adviser for many years, both when he was with a 
previous firm and later when he joined SJP. Records suggest their involvement with SJP 
began around 2015. They received advice in respect of their joint and individual financial 
interests. They received advice across a range of different financial products including on 
savings, investments, protection policies and pensions.
Mr and Mrs O brought a complaint to this Service which encompassed all advice theyd 
received from SJP since the beginning of their relationship with the firm. Where appropriate, 
separate cases have been set up for each discreet episode of recommendations they were 
provided with, and according to who was being provided with that advice. So, to be clear, 
this decision only covers the advice Mr O received from SJP in 2019 about his retirement 
planning.
Its recorded that Mr O had meetings with SJP in March, July and August 2019 at which his 
retirement provision was discussed. Information about his circumstances, objectives and 
attitude to risk were captured.
According to the fact find, Mr O was 57, married with two financially dependent children. He 
was employed as an engineer earning £25,000 a year. Total monthly net household income 
was recorded as £2,530. Total monthly household essential and discretionary expenditure 
was recorded as £1,500. He and his wife also had life assurance and critical illness cover.
Mr and Mrs O owned their home, which was said to be worth £200,000. They had no 
liabilities. Mrs O was said to have investments of around £185,000. And they held around 
£67,000 in cash deposits, some of which its recorded they anticipated might be required to 
help with their sons education and housing costs.
Its recorded Mr O expected to retire when he was 65. He had two paid up occupational 
money purchase plans and a paid up personal pension. He was also a member of his then 
employers group stakeholder plan. SJPs advice focussed on his paid-up funds. His 
Standard Life pension had a transfer value of around £45,400, his Aviva plan had a transfer 
value of about £7,700 and his Scottish Widows plan had a transfer value of approximately 
£2,900. Aside from any state pension entitlement, Mr O had no other provision for 
retirement.
Mr Os objectives were recorded in the following terms:
During our discussions, we spoke in depth around your objectives regarding our retirement 
planning. We agreed your overall objectives were to:
-Invest for your retirement.
-Access ongoing service and advice.
-Utilise the St. Jamess Place Investment Management Approach. 
-Consolidate your pension arrangements.
SJP produced a suitability report for Mr O dated 17 September 2019. It recommended 
he switch his three paid up pensions into an SJP Retirement Account. And that he 
should make net monthly contributions to it of £280. It set out its rationale in the 
following terms:
You did not wish to fund for a specific target income but preferred to make 
contributions that you consider to be affordable. In making a personal monthly 
contribution of £280 will result in a gross contribution of £350 per month once the 20% 
Income tax relief from the Government is added.
Allowing for your other arrangements, the recommended level of contribution is unlikely 
to be sufficient to meet your needs in retirement and so we need to regularly review the 
level of your funds and the contributions you can make
My recommendation is based on your needs and objectivesThe St. James's Place 
Retirement Account will allow you to accumulate funds for future benefits. In line with 
your plans for retirement you are able to access these funds at age 65.
You will receive the service and ongoing advice that I am able to offer. I believe this will 
be of benefit to you in the future because in line with your objectives, you will be able to 
direct any queries and receive ongoing advice from myself of which is important to you 
for reassurance and confidence in my trusted advice.
By utilising a St. James's Place Retirement Account, you will have access to the St. 
Jamess Place Approach to Investment Management. This forms a central part of my 
recommendation because this will provide regular ongoing management, monitoring 
and changing of the fund managers if necessary. The St Jamess place Approach to 
Investment Management is appropriate for you because you like the hands-on 
monitoring of our fund managers and believe that this coupled with the ongoing regular 
advice and service should help generate greater return within your pension plan.
As a result of my recommendation the number of providers your paid-up pension 
arrangements are held with will reduce from three to one. This will achieve your 
objective of consolidation and be of benefit to you because you really want to pull your 
funds together for potential better capital growth over the long term. You also want to be 
able to understand better where your funds are invested through regular face to face 
reviews as you feel this can only benefit you when the time comes to take the benefits 
so you will have a good understanding of all the available options to you.
In summary the potential improvements in flexibility of your investments, service, and 
investment performance are your key reasons for looking at alternatives.
Mr O signed a declaration on 3 October 2019 to say that he accepted the 
recommendations. Subsequently the funds from his paid up pensions were switched 
into his new arrangement with SJP and he started making monthly contributions to it.
On 29 July 2021 Mr and Mrs O complained to SJP about the suitability of the advice it had 
provided since they had engaged it. In respect of the recommendations it made to Mr O 
about his retirement planning, he identified several concerns, including that SJP had:-Failed to act in his best interest, instead being more concerned with generating fees.
-Failed to make him aware that he would be subject to an Early Withdrawal Charge 
(EWC) when taking his pension benefits.
-Failed to investigate whether his pension funds could be rebalanced with his existing 
providers. 
-Charged higher fees than wouldve been applied by his former providers.
-Switched him into an arrangement with less fund choice and a restricted fund 
management team.
-Switched him to an arrangement which meant he lost valuable return guarantees that 
were attached to his Standard Life policy, which was the largest of his former 
pensions.
-Recommended he make additional contributions to his new pension account when it 
knew this was unaffordable.
-Failed to provide him with a suitability report or explain its contents.
-Failed to make him aware of the fees applicable to his new pension account, and in 
particular the EWC.
Mr O went on to make various allegations about SJPs practices. And he asserted that he 
wouldve been better off today had he not switched his pensions.
SJP responded to Mr and Mrs Os complaint on 4 February 2022. In respect of Mr Os 
complaint about what had happened to his pension arrangements. In rejecting his complaint 
it summarised its position as follows:
I am satisfied [our AR] undertook the relevant comparisons to ensure that the potential 
benefits of transferring your pensions to SJP to meet your objectives, including that of 
consolidating your arrangements into one plan for the administrative benefits of doing so 
were not outweighed by the potential disadvantages, and as such the advice was suitable. I 
am also satisfied that [our ARs] recommendation was explained to you including the 
potential drawbacks, and as such you were in the position to make an informed decision to 
proceed with the consolidation of your Aviva, Standard Life and [Scottish Widows] pensions 
into a single plan with SJP.
Mr O wasnt satisfied with SJPs response and brought his case to this Service. An 
Investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He found that the higher 
charges he was exposed to couldnt be justified by the prospects being offered in the new 
arrangement. SJP disagreed.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Os complaint was passed to 
me to review afresh and to provide a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, 
my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Os case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by SJP for Mr O. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G 
in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of it s 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at 
the relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like SJP. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Os complaint.
When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at 
their circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those 
wants or needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the 
switch?
Each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in Mr Os best interests to make the 
advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made between 
his former pensions and the recommended new arrangement.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial Services Authority, 
published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted 
four key issues it thought should be focussed on:
-Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive 
than their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good 
reason? This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a 
guaranteed annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their 
recorded attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a 
need for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in 
place.
Did SJP meet the regulatory obligations it was bound by when advising Mr O?
I dont think SJP met the requirements placed on it in this case. Ill explain why.There are several documents relating to SJPs transaction with Mr O that are important 
to my consideration, these include the fact-find and the suitability report.
SJP recorded the following about Mr Os retirement requirements:
You stated that youre not really sure at this stage exactly how much retirement income 
you will need to support you and [your wife] in retirement however, you would like to 
continue living comfortably in retirement as you do now and your objective is to concentrate 
on building as much as you can towards your retirement over the next 8 or so years. You 
recognise that your expenses in retirement could be a lot less than they are now, that said 
you would like to build up as much of a pension pot as possible within your affordability so 
you are able to enjoy and make the most of your spare time.
As the purpose of SJPs advice was retirement planning, I think it needed to probe a little 
more about what level of income in retirement would be acceptable to Mr O. I cant see 
evidence of modelling carried out which shows how the advice it gave him in 2019, came 
together to deliver his requirements.
SJPs role wasnt simply to facilitate what Mr O was said to have wanted. Indeed, I think 
it knew his retirement income aspirations couldnt be delivered by his existing provision. 
Thats why in the suitability report it produced it said:
Allowing for your other arrangements, the recommended level of contribution is unlikely 
to be sufficient to meet your needs in retirement and so we need to regularly review the 
level of your funds and the contributions you can make. Generally, I would recommend 
you maximise your personal contributions otherwise you may have a shortfall in your 
retirement planning when you come to retire in the future.
SJPs role was to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr O about what was 
in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew about his circumstances and what 
was realistic. It knew pension pots built up over many years are to provide for a 
retirement income.
So, I think theres a weakness in the approach SJP took with Mr O in its retirement 
planning. Ill now consider the relevant specific aspects of pension switching that the 
FCA has previously highlighted as worthy of particular focus.
In responding to the Investigators view, SJP acknowledged the new arrangements it put in 
place were more expensive than Mr Os former arrangements. It told this Service:
We accept the SJP plan had higher charges and less funds & fund management teams, 
compared to the ceding schemes, and this was detailed in the suitability letter. However, 
once the Partner applied special terms to bring the case within acceptable limits (in line with 
our own internal advice guidance) it had the effect of reducing outperformance to 0.66% p.a. 
The outperformance result factors in all our charges (inclusive of the ongoing advice charge 
of 0.5% p.a.). The client did not have access to advice where he was, so can only see this 
as a benefit for him at that time, when he is nearing retirement and needs to ensure he is on 
track with his retirement plans.
If we take out the 0.5% p.a. ongoing advice charge from the equation (which would make it 
more of a like for like comparison  i.e. pensions with no access to ongoing advice) the 
overall outperformance of 0.66% p.a. would reduce to 0.16% p.a. The difference in charges 
is therefore minimal and I can understand the benefit to the client to accept a slightly higher 
charge for the benefit of the SJP Approach to investment and consolidation of 3 pension 
plans. As the transfers were estimated to total £56,067.22, the 0.16% p.a. charge differential 
would equate to £89.70 in the first year. I dont see this as significant enough to make the client change his mind about transferring. I dont believe a term of 8 years is considered 
short investment horizon to make up additional growth of 0.16% p.a.
Even if I accept SJPs analysis of the various fees and charges it was making and the 
comparison with what Mr O previously had in place - and Id observe that these werent as 
clear in the suitability report as they might have been - the inescapable fact is that the new 
arrangement was more expensive.
I accept what SJP says about the advantage of having ongoing advice to ensure Mr O 
remained on track with his retirement plans. Unfortunately for it, as Ive already identified its 
unclear from the available evidence what that plan was. And had he remained with his 
former providers he wouldnt have incurred adviser costs.
In order to exceed the drag of increased costs and then provide an improved return on 
investment, there needed to be a reasonable prospect of performance improvement under 
the new arrangements. Remember, a significant element of Mr Os provision had 
previously benefitted from a guarantee of 4% annual growth.
I cant see that Mr O was effectively informed by SJP about how his former personal 
pensions had been invested and the fit with his risk appetite. Theres nothing about the 
performance of his pensions over different time horizons. Further, Ive not seen he was 
provided with information about the yield being targeted by its new arrangements. And it 
follows theres no effective comparison between the pensions.
So, SJP hasnt done enough to satisfy me there was a clear potential for Mr O to be better 
off in his new arrangement compared to his previous personal pensions. It seems part of 
SJPs strategy was for him to take on more risk in order to achieve higher growth. Ill now 
consider this aspect of its advice.
SJP said the following of Mr Os attitude to risk:
we agreed you are a Medium Risk investor on our risk spectrum. You want your capital to 
keep pace with inflation and are investing for at least five years. You want the potential to 
achieve better long-term returns and are comfortable with most of your capital being 
invested in equities and property, some of it overseas. You realise there may be significant 
falls in the value of your investments.
On the face of it, SJPs assessment appears reasonable, given the moderated risk 
assessment process it had been through with Mr O. It seems he wasnt without some 
knowledge and experience of investment.
Nevertheless, when I consider risk appetite I also think about a customers capacity for loss. 
Its unfortunate that we dont know what level of income Mr O was aiming for in retirement, 
which at the time was about 8 years away. But I think we have a sense from commentary 
that he wanted to maintain a comfortable existence and make the most of his life after work.
Mr O had a relatively small pension pot. As SJP itself had identified, this was insufficient to 
meet his needs in retirement. While he and his wife had other savings and investments, 
these were relatively modest and it seems they were preparing to give their sons some 
financial support. 
Taking these matters together, its reasonable to conclude Mr O had low capacity for loss. 
Yet SJP was advising him to increase the exposure of his whole pot to risk. On balance, I 
dont think this was appropriate, especially given the valuable guarantees attached to a 
significant element of his Standard Life pension. Broadly, the risk profile of the personal pensions hed switched out of were cautious/medium risk, and I think that was appropriate 
for his circumstances.
There were three main advantages indicated by SJP for Mr O switching his three paid up 
pensions.
The first was so that he could consolidate his retirement funds into one account, with the 
potential for better capital growth over the long-term. But we know the new regime was more 
costly, so it had to perform better than his previous plans. It didnt provide an effective 
projection showing whether this was realistic. I agree with the Investigator when he 
concluded the remaining argument about easier administration didnt justify the switch on its 
own.
Secondly, SJP noted Mr O would have access to its approach to investment management. 
This involved, regular ongoing management, monitoring and changing of the fund managers 
if necessary. However, his existing pensions wouldve benefitted from ongoing management. 
While the investment philosophy of each provider mayve been different, as it noted there 
was no guarantee the new arrangements would deliver better performance.
Thirdly, SJP noted the importance on ongoing advice. Ive already mentioned the modest 
size of Mr Os pension pot. Although, I note that he has since put in place alternative adviser 
services. That would suggest he desired some input to his pension arrangements.
SJPs recommendation for Mr O to switch his three paid up pensions into a Retirement 
Account was a marginal call. The problem it has is that it needed to demonstrably show the 
transaction was in his best interests, and it hasnt managed to do that. Indeed, in its own 
suitability report it listed several disadvantages, including:
-Higher charges
-Fewer funds to invest in
-Fewer fund management teams
-Loss of smoothed returns for with profits funds (with Standard Life)
-Early withdrawal charges
-Loss of guarantees (with Standard Life)
-Loss of life styling strategy (with Aviva)
Given the proposal to switch Mr Os pension was at best marginal, Ive concluded SJP 
shouldve advised him to remain with his existing pension providers.
Part of Mr Os complaint related to the additional contributions he was advised to make to his 
pension. He says it was unaffordable and had to cease payments after just six months. SJP 
says the advice was given in good faith, based on information he had provided about his 
circumstances.
I think there were some deficiencies in the fact-find SJP completed, for example it didnt 
secure a detailed breakdown of Mr and Mrs Os expenditure. However, Ive no reason to 
believe the recorded monthly disposable income was so wrong as to mean the proposed 
pension contribution was unaffordable. They appear to have had a reasonable level of 
headroom in the household budget and substantial savings (albeit some of these appear to 
have been earmarked for the support of their sons).In most circumstances it is good advice to maximise pension contributions. We know Mr O 
had a small pension pot. He was heading for a position where it seemed likely based on 
available evidence hed have insufficient provision in retirement. And making pension 
contributions is a tax efficient way of using available funds. Ive not seen anything that 
makes me think SJPs advice in this regard was unsuitable. Im not upholding this element of 
Mr Os complaint.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Os case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been 
in now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I 
hold St. Jamess Place Wealth Management PLC responsible for.
If St. Jamess Place Wealth Management PLC had provided suitable advice, I think its 
more likely than not Mr O wouldnt have switched his two occupational money purchase 
and his personal pension into the SJP Retirement Account.
Mr O switched from his SJP Retirement Account to another provider in May 2021. I 
understand he made around 6 monthly contributions to his SJP pension when it was in 
place. I think he would more likely than not still have made these payments to a personal 
pension. These matters need to be borne in mind when calculating redress.
So, St. Jamess Place Wealth Management PLC needs to provide redress as follows:
- Compare the performance of Mr O's SJP pension with the notional values if benefits 
had remained with Standard Life, Aviva & Scottish Widows up until the date he 
transferred his pension to another provider.
- Mr O has made further contributions to his pension. Im not aware if hes taken any 
benefits. After confirming the detailed position, then the value SJP obtains or the 
calculations it makes should assume these adjustments would still have occurred 
and on the same dates.
- The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Mr 
Os former personal pensions and the actual value of his SJP Retirement Account 
will be his basic financial loss that needs to be redressed.
- If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no compensation is payable. If 
the notional value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation 
is payable.
- If it isnt possible to obtain information in relation to the notional value of Mr Os 
previous plans, it should use a hybrid benchmark to reflect his cautious/medium risk 
profile. To do this, SJP should use a 50/50 split of (i) the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index and (ii) the average rate from fixed rate bonds. To arrive 
at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, it should use the 
monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
And apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
- Im satisfied this is a reasonable proxy for the type of return that couldve been 
achieved if Mr Os pension funds had they remained with his former providers. I 
consider he was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment 
objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr O into that position. It 
does not mean he wouldve invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% 
in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return he couldve obtained from 
investments suited to his risk outlook. - If there is a loss, SJP should add 8% simple annual interest to this from the date he 
transferred his funds in May 2021 until the date it settles.
- If there is a loss SJP should pay into Mr Os pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. Its payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt pay the compensation into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
- If SJP cant pay the compensation into Mr Os existing pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr O wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
- The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Os actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that Mr 
O is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction 
would equal 20%. However, if Mr O would have been able to take a tax-free lump 
sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an 
overall reduction of 15%.
- Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If SJP considers it is required by 
HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax from that interest, it should 
tell Mr O how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate in 
respect of interest if Mr O asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from 
HMRC. 
- SJP should provide the details of the calculation to Mr O in a clear, simple format.
In addition, St. Jamess Place Wealth Management PLC should pay Mr O £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman