DRN-3352940
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance, wont compensate her for the consequential losses that shes claimed as a result of 
some faulty kitchen furniture being supplied to her. Her husband is also involved with her 
complaint.
What happened
Mrs J used a fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays Partner Finance, that she 
electronically signed in April 2021, to pay for some kitchen furniture. The price of the 
furniture was £8,986.79 and she paid a deposit of £472.98 so the loan was for £8,513.81 
which she agreed to repay by 83 monthly instalments of £101.35 and a final payment of 
£101.76. Some of the furniture was damaged when it was delivered in May 2021 so Mrs J 
complained to the supplier. She said that shed had to cancel the fitter who shed already 
paid £200 to and that her husband had taken time off work for the delivery and installation.
She then said that she was cancelling the contract and had made a claim to Barclays 
Partner Finance under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She also said that she 
expected to be paid compensation for her losses. The supplier replied seven days later and 
offered Mrs J two options: to replace the damaged items and a refund of £1,600; and to 
collect the furniture, refund the deposit paid and end the finance agreement. Mrs J chose the 
second option but the supplier said that it was in full and final settlement of all matters which 
wasnt acceptable to Mrs J. Emails were exchanged between the supplier and Mrs J and, 
three weeks after it had given Mrs J the options, the supplier offered to pay her £200 as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Barclays Partner Finance said that the supplier had given two reasonable resolutions and 
Mrs J had accepted the return of the kitchen so it was closing her claim, but it credited £25 to 
her account as a gesture due to the inconvenience of contacting it. Mrs J wasnt satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
supplier had given two options of remedies which he thought were fair and reasonable. He 
wasnt persuaded that the consequential losses that Mrs J had incurred were a direct result 
of the contract breach because, if shed accepted either of the offers, she wouldnt have 
needed to place any items in storage. He said that the customer service issues were 
between Mrs J and the supplier and he didnt think that Barclays Partner Finance was 
responsible for paying any more compensation to her.
Mrs J has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She has responded 
in detail and says, in summary, that she had the right to cancel the contract within 14 days 
and should be given a full refund, and the furniture should have been collected without any 
conditions. She says that the suppliers offer was in full and final settlement so she wouldn't 
have been able to raise a court case against it after the furniture collection. She says that the 
collection of the furniture and the refund should have been unconditional so she should be 
paid the compensation and receive the refund of costs that shes claimed due to the 
suppliers, and Barclays Partner Finances, unethical and unlawful behaviour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Mrs Js complaint about Barclays Partner Finance, I must be 
satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
and that Barclays Partner Finances response to her claim under section 75 wasnt 
fair or reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of Mrs Js claim under 
section 75 as only a court would be able to do that;
theres no dispute that there was a breach of contract as some of the furniture was 
damaged when it was delivered  and the supplier gave Mrs J two options which I 
consider were fair and reasonable remedies for the breach of contract;
she chose to cancel the order and for the supplier to collect the furniture, refund the 
deposit and end the finance agreement but the supplier then asked her to accept that 
offer in full and final settlement of her claims;
she didnt want to do so because she wanted to make a claim against the supplier for 
her consequential losses which I understand were the £200 that shed paid to the 
fitter and compensation for the time that her husband had taken off work;
the supplier offered to pay her £200 in June 2021 as a gesture of goodwill but Mrs J 
didnt accept that offer and then paid for the furniture to be transported and stored;
at that time the only outstanding consequential loss that I understand that she was 
claiming was for her husbands time  but I wouldnt award compensation for her 
husbands time off work in these circumstances and Im not persuaded that its likely 
that any other claim that she might make for such compensation would be 
successful;
the furniture was then transported to the suppliers store in June 2021 and Mrs Js 
deposit was refunded to her and the finance agreement was cancelled;
it was Mrs Js decision to not accept the suppliers offer and to pay for transportation 
and storage of the furniture  and Im not persuaded that those costs are a direct 
result of the breach of contract so I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to require Barclays Partner Finance to reimburse her for them;
I dont consider that the supplier should have required Mrs J to accept its offer to 
collect the furniture, refund the deposit and end the finance agreement in full and 
final settlement of her claims  but, at the time that she put the furniture into storage, 
it had also offered to pay her £200 and I consider that that was a fair and reasonable 
offer for it to have made at that time;
I dont consider that Barclays Partner Finance responded properly to Mrs Js section 
75 claim  if it had properly investigated her claims it would have understood that she 
was claiming for consequential losses which werent addressed in its response to her 
 but it credited £25 to her account because of the inconvenience of having to 
contact it  and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require it to pay her more compensation than that for its 
failure to properly respond to her claim;
Barclays Partner Finance isnt liable under section 75 for any issues with the 
customer service that Mrs J received from the supplier  and Im not persuaded that 
the supplier or Barclays Partner Finance has acted unlawfully or unethically in its 
dealings with Mrs J; and
I sympathise with Mrs J for the issues that shes had with the kitchen furniture and 
the inconvenience that she was caused when the furniture was in her home, but I find 
that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Barclays Partner Finance to reimburse Mrs J for any of the consequential losses that 
shes claimed, to pay her any further compensation or to take any other action in 
response to her complaint.
If the supplier hasnt paid the £200 compensation to Mrs J, I suggest that Mrs J now contacts 
the supplier to see if its offer of compensation remains available to her.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman