DRN-2015239
The complaint
Ms T is complaining that Think Money Limited wont refund transactions she didnt authorise. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision: 
On 9 August 2019, Ms T received a call from someone claiming to be from 
Think Money. They said they suspected fraudulent activity on her account. Because 
Ms T sounded worried, they said theyd send her message with a code for her to put 
into her phone  to confirm it was Think Money. Following this, they went through 
security questions with Ms T and highlighted two suspicious transactions. When she 
confirmed this wasnt her, they said theyd block her account and send her a new 
card. 
On 9 and 10 August 2019, several payments were made from Ms Ts account. I 
understand this amounted to £2,878.91, and that £766.81 has since been recovered 
from receiving banks. That would make the total loss for which Ms T seeks 
compensation to be £2,112.10.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, Ms T isnt liable for payments she 
didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe. 
Its agreed Ms T didnt authorise the transactions, because she didnt complete the 
agreed steps to make the payments. Instead, it seems the fraudster registered her 
online banking on a new device and made payments. They did this with the 
information they convinced Ms T to share by falsely saying they were from Think 
Money and there had been suspicious activity on her account. 
I dont think Ms T failed with intent to keep her details safe  she genuinely believed 
what she was doing was to check she was speaking with her genuine bank and to 
stop fraudulent activity. 
Im also not satisfied she failed with gross negligence. Ms T explained the call came 
through as Think Money on her phone  so it seems the fraudster spoofed her banks 
genuine number. 
They said there was suspicious activity on her account and asked Ms T some 
questions. Because Ms T sounded worried, they said theyd send a text that would 
come through from her bank, with a code for her to put in her phone. 
This was a genuine message from Think Money, which allowed the fraudster to 
register Ms Ts online banking on a new device. Ive reviewed an example of this 
message: Never share this code  hang up if anyone asks for it, including 
thinkmoney or the Police. If you did not request this text BLOCK to [X] & call [X]. Your 
thinkmoney Authentication Code is . 
Think Money highlight that Ms T shared this when it explicitly said not to. Ive 
considered this alongside the circumstances of the scam. Ms Ts phone identified her 
bank as the caller. And the fraudster coached her to expect a text, as a means of 
proving who they were. So I can understand that when the message came through 
as expected, Ms T felt reassured  I think lots of people wouldve have done. 
Ms T went on to share the code. But as this point, she trusted she was speaking with 
her genuine bank, and shed been cleverly deceived into believing this was 
something for her benefit  an extra layer of security so she knew who she was 
dealing with. Im also mindful that shed been presented with a worrying scenario  
that there was fraudulent activity. And she wouldve still been on the phone when she 
received the message  making it more likely that she wouldve have focussed on the 
code to share, as opposed to having the time to fully digest what the message said.  
In this light, I dont think that Ms Ts actions in the heat of the moment fell so far 
below what a reasonable person wouldve done that she failed with gross negligence. 
Ms T was then asked security questions, which she believed were in line with what 
her bank usually asks. So I can see how this didnt ring alarm bells or cause her to 
doubt who she was talking to  and why she answered their questions. 
When the fraudsters had accessed Ms Ts online banking, they changed her mobile 
number as well as her email address. Think Money said alerts wouldve been sent to 
her old details to say theyd been updated  but its not provided us with evidence to 
support this. Either way, Im not convinced that Ms Ts failure to respond to these, 
when she had been duped into believing that shed just protected her account from 
fraud, meant she seriously disregarded an obvious risk. So this doesnt change my 
mind. 
On this basis, I dont think Ms T acted with a significant degree of carelessness such 
that she failed with gross negligence. So I conclude that she isnt liable for the 
transactions and Think Money need to put things right  by refunding Ms Ts losses 
from these unauthorised transactions alongside interest to compensate her for the 
time shes been out of pocket.
Ms T said she incurred fees because her direct debits were cancelled by the 
fraudster. The investigator recommended for these to be refunded if she provided 
evidence. I note from Ms Ts statements that it seems she wouldve have time after 
she found out about the scam to reinstate her direct debits before they were due 
again. In any event, Ms T hasnt come forward with evidence, and I think the interest 
above would fairly encompass such losses. So I dont award anything further for this. 
Think Money ought to have refunded this much sooner  and thats meant Ms T 
hasnt been able to put this behind her, causing her prolonged stress and anxiety. So 
I also award £250, which I think fairly reflects these non-financial losses here. 
  
My final decisionFor these reasons, my decision is to uphold Ms Ts complaint and I order Think Money 
Limited to:
Pay Ms T the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount already 
returned. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay Ms T £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman