DRN-1756905
The complaint
Mr S complained because Revolut Ltd blocked his incoming payment for 14 days. He said 
that meant that he lost money on the exchange rate, and he also had to find funds 
elsewhere.
What happened
Mr S had funds in US dollars which he wanted to use to pay for a deposit on a property 
purchase in sterling. He decided to send the money to his Revolut account, because he said 
Revolut had attractive exchange rates.
Mr S sent $280,000 to his Revolut account on 29 August 2019.
The next day, Mr Ss account was triggered by Revoluts security system for a routine 
security check. He was asked to verify the source of the funds, and he uploaded documents 
to prove this.
Between 1 and 6 September, Mr S tried several times to contact Revolut. The only way to do 
this was by Chat on Revoluts app, and Mr S asked for a live agent on several occasions, but 
this didnt happen.
On 6 September, Revolut apologised for the length of time Mr S had been waiting. It asked 
Mr S for more information. Mr S asked for clarification of exactly what Revolut wanted. The 
agent said she would escalate this to the relevant team. 
Despite Mr S chasing several more times, he heard nothing until 14 September when 
Revolut specified what further documents it wanted. Mr S sent them promptly, and answered 
further questions about the money the same day. Revolut then confirmed that Mr Ss 
account was fully operational.
Mr S complained, telling Revolut that he was claiming £600 because it had blocked his 
account for more than two weeks. 
In its final response, Revolut apologised for Mr Ss wait. It said it was working as fast as it 
could to ensure that all users got a response quickly. It said the checks were there for 
security, and it had had an unusual amount of chats at the time. It gave him the value of two 
months of the Premium subscription. According to figures on Revoluts website, this was 
worth about £14 in total.
Mr S complained to this service. He said that if the funds had been released promptly, theyd 
have been converted into £3,000 more. Hed also had to find funds elsewhere, and the 
experience had been stressful and time-consuming. Mr S wasnt satisfied with Revoluts 
offer of two months of an upselling service. He said he wanted £600 compensation.
The investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. She said that Revolut had a regulatory duty to 
carry out necessary security checks. And the website, and terms and conditions, made it 
clear that transfers in usually took up to 5 working days, and that it might have to carry out 
further security checks. But there had been times when Mr S had asked to speak to a live 
agent, and this hadnt happened. The investigator pointed out that, even though Revolut had 
said it had a lot of requests at the time, someone could have responded to him, even if this 
had just been to say there was no update available. So the investigator considered that 
Revolut should pay Mr S £100 compensation.
Revolut didnt reply to the investigators view. But Mr S wasnt satisfied with £100, which he 
said was nominal. He said that the money had been low risk, because hed sent it from a UK 
bank account where it would already have been vetted.  It had become trapped in Revoluts 
system for a number of weeks, and Revolut hadnt responded to his contact, and hadnt 
provided an adequate service. Mr S also pointed out that Revoluts website didnt provide 
ready access to the small print, but focused on the ability to send money easily.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two elements to consider about Mr Ss complaint: whether Revolut was justified in 
requesting extra security information; and its customer service. 
Extra security information requested
I find that Revolut was entitled to request extra information from Mr S, in order to verify 
security details for the incoming payment, and in particular to verify the source of funds. 
Financial organisations have a duty to satisfy themselves about security matters, and it 
doesnt make any difference what checks Mr Ss sending bank had done. Having looked at 
the information requested, I consider the content of Revoluts requests was reasonable.  
Mr S has pointed out that the terms and conditions werent readily accessible. Ive looked at 
the website, and I agree that the main message is a selling one. But thats not uncommon, 
and new accounts, with all financial organisations, require customers to agree to terms and 
conditions. Its customers responsibility to make sure they are satisfied with what theyre 
signing up to.
Section 20 of the terms and conditions for Mr Ss account sets out When we will refuse or 
delay a payment and says:
We must refuse to make a payment, or delay a payment, in the following circumstances:
-If legal or regulatory requirements prevent us from making the payment or mean that 
we need to carry out further checks.
It goes on to say:
We wont be responsible for any losses you suffer as a result of us refusing or delaying a 
payment.
Mr S was bound by these terms and conditions, and I accept that the reason for Revoluts 
checks was to fulfil the regulatory requirements concerning security. It follows that the fact 
that the exchange rate moved against Mr S during the period of delay, is not something that 
Revolut has to reimburse. The exchange rate might, of course, have moved the other way, 
benefitting Mr S.
Customer serviceIve looked at the Chat records. These show that on 30 August Mr S promptly uploaded the 
documents which Revolut requested. Mr S didnt hear back and chased Revolut, asking for a 
live agent, on 1 September, 2 September, and 3 September. Revolut didnt get back to him 
until 6 September, when Mr S again promptly provided the bank statement which Revolut 
requested.
Mr S asked for a live agent again on 8, 11 and 13 September. Revolut didnt get back to him 
until 14 September, again asking for more information, which Mr S again provided 
straightaway.
So there were at least six occasions when Mr S tried to contact Revolut, and didnt get a 
reply. 
And there were three separate requests for information: on 30 August, 6 September and 14 
September.  I appreciate that Revoluts 14 September queries arose from the earlier 
documents. But I note that Revolut didnt ask for the bank statement, requested on 6 
September, with the first batch of information. If it had done so, the final batch of queries 
could have been raised about a week earlier.
Mr S has also pointed out that the only way he could communicate with Revolut was by 
using Chat on the app. I appreciate that having no other way of contacting Revolut would 
have added to Mr Ss frustration when he couldnt get a reply through the app.
But this is a feature of an app-based service, and the terms and conditions do say Well 
normally communicate with you through the Revolut app. 
I agree with Mr S that he had poor customer service from Revolut. And from the figures on 
Revoluts website, its offer of compensation was worth at the most around £14. I can 
understand why this would have added to Mr Ss annoyance. But taking into account the 
general level of our awards, I find that £100 is a fair and reasonable amount for Revolut to 
pay Mr S for its poor service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I order Revolut Ltd to pay Mr S £100 compensation for its poor 
service. For the avoidance of doubt, this is in addition to the value of Revoluts two month 
Premium subscription.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman