DRN-3739536
The complaint
Miss P complains about the way Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Hitachi Personal 
Finance (Hitachi) administered her fixed sum loan.
 
Miss P has used a representative during her complaint but to keep things simple Ill mainly 
refer to Miss P. 
What happened
In July 2019 Miss P ordered a kitchen from a supplier Ill call W. The contract included the 
supply and fit of the kitchen. Miss P paid for the kitchen using a fixed sum loan from Hitachi. 
The kitchen cost around £8,700 and the amount of credit provided by Hitachi was £7,850.
The loan agreement set out that Miss Ps first repayment was deferred by 12 months until 
July 2020. And if she repaid the amount of credit in full before this, she wouldnt have to pay 
any interest on the loan.
 
Miss P said that during pre-contract negotiations with W she was promised that she wouldnt 
have to pay for the kitchen until she was completely satisfied with it and had signed 
something to this effect.
There were some problems with the installation around October 2019 which were not put 
right until June/July 2020. 
Due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on Miss P, Hitachi agreed to extend the 
deferment period until October 2020 and then again until January 2021. Miss P settled the 
loan in January 2021. 
Miss P complained to Hitachi. She said based on what shed been told by W about not 
having to pay for the kitchen until she was completely satisfied with it, the deferment period 
should not have come to an end in January 2021 because there were unresolved issues with 
both W and Hitachi in respect of the way they had treated her. She was also unhappy with 
how long it had taken to resolve the problems with the installation. 
Hitachi said Miss Ps loan agreement made clear the first repayment would be deferred for 
12 months from the date the agreement was signed but this had nevertheless been 
extended. It said the kitchen had been supplied and fitted as agreed by June 2020 so 
payment was due. It nevertheless paid Miss P £70 in recognition of the trouble the shed 
been caused by the items that needed repairing or replacing.  
 
Dissatisfied Miss P referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think Miss Ps complaint should be upheld. He said Hitachi had 
treated her fairly as the terms of the loan agreement supported its position that repayment 
was due. 
Miss P disagreed with the investigator and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I do not intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Miss P 
and Hitachi that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I do not comment on something, its 
not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the 
key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Miss P said she was told by a representative of W at least three times that she wouldnt have 
to pay for the kitchen until she was completely satisfied with it and had signed something to 
this effect.  She thinks she shouldnt have been asked to pay for the kitchen in January 2021 
because the installation of the kitchen had not been carried out to her complete satisfaction. 
The reason for this being her complaints about customer service were unresolved and she 
hadnt signed anything to say she was happy with the kitchen. 
Relevant legislation (including Section 75 and Section 56 Consumer Credit Act 1974) means 
Hitachi could be held responsible in this case for certain things W may have said to Miss P 
before she agreed to buy the kitchen. However, even if I were to accept Miss Ps 
recollections of what she was told, I still need to consider what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
 
Hitachi said that W issued a completion certificate for the kitchen in June 2020. And although 
Miss P said she didnt sign anything to say she was happy with the work it appears from 
what shes told us, and from Hitachis contact notes, that she agreed the kitchen had been 
supplied and fitted by then. 
Miss Ps responses to the investigators questions do not indicate to me that there was 
anything wrong with the kitchen after this either  save for a couple of relatively minor issues 
with a filter on the cooker hood and some lightbulbs in the ceiling which did not match 
colours. But it looks like W sorted these out not long after this by making a payment to Miss 
P. 
So, even if there had been a requirement that Miss P sign a satisfaction note, it seems at 
this point the only reason shed have refused to sign one would have been that she had 
unresolved issues in respect of customer service. 
 
Even by Miss Ps recollections of what she was told by W, it is a stretch to say complete 
satisfaction was likely to have included matters such as customer service complaints. By 
that logic Miss P could have held up payment for all manner of issues not related to the 
supply and installation of the kitchen, even if it was complete. That seems very unlikely to 
have been the intention behind Ws statement given these implications. 
I note also that Miss Ps recollections are that W told her she wouldnt have to pay for the 
kitchen until she was satisfied with it, not that the deferment period would only begin once 
this was the case. Looking to the loan agreement that Miss P signed, this set out that 
repayments would commence on 12 July 2020, 12 months after the start date of the 
agreement, unless Miss P repaid the amount of credit in full before this date  although this 
was of course later extended by Hitachi to January 2021. It made no mention that the start or 
end date of the deferment period were linked to the completion of the work. And it set out 
that Miss P authorised Hitachi to pay W as soon as the goods/services had been supplied  
which they had. 
So, with all of the above considered and thinking about what is fair and reasonable here, 
even if I accept Miss Ps recollections of what she was told by W as true, I do not find Hitachi 
treated Miss P unfairly by asking her to start making the monthly repayments (or repay the 
amount of credit in full if she wished to avoid paying interest) in January 2021. By then the 
kitchen had been fully installed without issue for nearly six months, Hitachi had paid the 
money to W and the deferment period on the loan had come to an end in accordance with 
the terms agreed in the finance agreement  having been extended by almost six months. 
So, payment was fairly due. 
Miss P is also unhappy with what she feels is the disgraceful way she was treated by W 
and Hitachi. So, Ive given careful thought to this. 
As the investigator explained, Hitachi would not be responsible for customer service issues 
Miss P experienced with W  such as the way its staff treated her. And as Miss P has 
pointed out, she has been in her own negotiations with W about compensation for such 
matters in any event.
 
I do recognise that Miss P was put to some inconvenience in having to arrange for the 
cooker hood to be fixed and eventually replaced. Under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 Hitachi is only liable to Miss P for the kind of claim she couldve brought against W 
in respect of a breach of contract or misrepresentation. And generally, courts do not make 
awards for things like distress and inconvenience in respect of such claims other than in very 
exceptional circumstances. 
Those circumstances do sometimes include cases about building work where for example 
significant disruption to the home has caused material discomfort. But it seems unlikely to 
me that what happened in this case would warrant such an award. I say this given that what 
actually needed to be repaired or replaced was a cooker hood, some lights and some filters 
among other fairly minor issues and did not significantly affect the functionality of the kitchen. 
So, I do not find that Hitachi needs to pay any compensation in respect of the things W had 
to put right with the kitchen or the time it took W to do this. 
Miss P is of course unhappy with Hitachi also and feels she was bullied into paying for the 
kitchen. Ive already concluded that the first payment was fairly due when Hitachi asked for 
it. And I do not find Hitachis reminders that payment needed to be made to have been 
excessive or unreasonable. 
Thinking also about what Miss P has said about the course of events and looking at Hitachis 
records of contact with Miss P, I do not find it acted unreasonably towards her. W had 
resolved most of the issues with the kitchen installation within a few weeks of Miss P making 
her concerns known to Hitachi in June 2020. But in any event, it appears it got in touch with 
W almost straight away to attempt to resolve matters. And when Miss P told Hitachi she 
didnt think she should be asked to make payment it investigated her concerns promptly. 
What happened after this relates to the way Hitachi administered Miss Ps complaint which 
generally speaking is not an activity this service could look at. 
Overall, I do not find Hitachi treated Miss P unfairly and so I do not require it to do anything 
in respect of her complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I do not uphold Miss Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman