DRN-3433409
The complaint
Miss I complains about AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) for its decision not to pursue recovery 
from another person. She wants to be compensated for her losses and her inconvenience.
What happened
Miss I held home insurance with AXA. 
In May 2021 Miss I experienced a leak into her home from the flat above. This leak caused 
damage to her carpets and furnishings. The cause of the leak was investigated and it was 
found that squirrels had been in the room space above of the upper flat and had chewed 
through a PVC water pipe, causing the escape of water into the upper flat, which in turn 
leaked through to Miss Is home. 
Miss I submitted a claim to AXA. This was processed and she received a settlement of her 
costs, minus her policy excess. 
During the course of the claim Miss I became aware that a warning had been sent to the 
managing agent of the upstairs flat several weeks before the leak occurred, and this had 
warned of suspected pests being in the roof space. 
Miss I thought that the fact that this warning did not appear to have been acted upon 
suggested that the owner of the above flat had been negligent. 
She asked AXA to seek to recover the costs. 
AXAs agents made a number of attempts to contact the tenant and owner of the upper flat 
and, when no response was received, AXA accepted its agents advice to take no further 
action. 
Miss I was unhappy with this and contacted us. She feels that it is unfair that she has had to 
pay an excess and potentially higher premiums going forward due to an effect from another 
persons home, and through no fault of her own. 
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Is complaint. He considered that AXA had done what it 
needed to do under the policy, and had taken a reasonable decision not to purse recovery of 
the costs. He considered that it was entitled to take this decision and had done nothing 
wrong. 
Miss I did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I understand Miss Is upset and frustration at what has happened. She has 
encountered substantial disruption and expense due to a leak which happened outside of 
her home, and which was not her fault. 
Learning that the owners of the above flat might have been able to prevent that damage 
from occurring must be very frustrating. 
As my colleague set out, our remit at this service is to look at the relationship between a 
consumer and a financial business and to decide whether, in the particular circumstances, 
the business has treated the consumer fairly. This will often involve reference to the 
agreement between the parties.
I have reviewed the policy wording and, as my colleague concluded, AXA appears to have 
settled the claim in line with the wording of Miss Is policy. I cannot see that this sets out 
specifically how AXA approaches recovery of costs, but the wording is clear that in any legal 
action AXA pursues on behalf of the policy holder, AXA is entitled to decide how best to 
pursue, or not pursue, that action.
AXA has explained that in Miss Is case it made some attempts to contact the owner of the 
above flat and their insurer but received no response. AXA states that it makes attempts to 
recover costs in every case, but that where liability is not accepted by another party then 
AXA will take a view about whether to proceed. 
In this instance, AXA has decided that it is not proportionate to continue pursuing the insurer 
of the upper flat. AXA is entitled to make this decision, and I cannot say it has done this 
unfairly. 
I appreciate that this does leave Miss I to bear some costs of her claim, and she feels that 
this is unfair. I understand that view, but here Miss Is insurance appears to have worked 
properly, and her having the insurance in place has prevented her from incurring the full 
costs of the water leak and damage. I cannot say that AXA has acted wrongly and so I agree 
with my colleagues view and do not uphold Miss Is complaint. 
If Miss I wishes to pursue the upstairs flat owner directly for the remaining costs she has 
incurred, she should seek independent legal advice about this.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Miss Is complaint and do not ask AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman