The complaint
Mrs J complains that charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited trading as 
Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBF) were unfair. She would like the charges to either be justified 
or waived. And compensation for the distress caused.
What happened
Mrs J says she took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with MBF n 2015. She says when the 
agreement ended in 2018 MBF charged her £1,905 for damage including a charge  for 
missing service a service. She says MBF waived the charges for damage. But there's an 
outstanding charge of £750 as there was no evidence she had the car serviced.
Mrs J said there was no evidence the car had devalued since she had it. She felt this final 
charge should be waived.
MBF said it had waived all charges for damage.However, it felt the charge for an incomplete 
service history was reasonable as there was no evidence that Mrs J serviced the car whilst 
she had it. It said the inspection report showed that a service was due. It confirmed that the 
vehicle had to be service either after 12 months or after 15,000 whichever was the sooner.
Our investigator didn't uphold Mrs J's complaint. He found it fair that MBF had waived the 
charges for damage even though he felt some damage would have been chargeable. But it 
was reasonable to charge for the missing service.
MBF accepted this view but Mrs J didn't. She said that MBF hadn't been able to give her a 
copy of the service history. So she didn't feel it was reasonable to charge for something it 
couldn't evidence she hadn't done. She said the dealership told her a service was typically 
due every 12 months from the pre delivery date (PDI) or after 15,000 whichever was the 
sooner. She thought the PDI was the 23 February each month. And in her view the service 
was due after she returned the car on 22 February not before.
She added that she had looked at British Vehicle Leasing and Rental Association( BVRLA) 
guidelines which didn't cover how a business should charge for servicing.
Our investigator considered these points but didn't change his view. He felt the 
BVRLA guidelines were clear that it was the hirer's responsibility to service the car. And for 
the hirer to provide evidence of servicing.
Although he couldn't confirm the PDI he felt it was likely to have been on or before the 
delivery date of 23 February 2015. So on that basis Mrs J was still liable to have the car 
serviced before the end of her contract.
DRN-1521445Mrs J didn't accept this further view. She maintained the service was due after she had 
returned the car not before
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the charge for not servicing the car is a significant amount of money. So I 
understand that  Mrs J is going to be disappointed as I've reached the same conclusion as 
our investigator.
I am not going to go into the detail of the damage charges that MBF originally applied. It has 
agreed to waive all of these so I think its fair to say that part of Ms J's complaint has been 
resolved.
The outstanding charge is for servicing of the car. MBF says that Mrs J hasn't given any 
evidence to show the car was serviced. It has referred us to the contract Mrs J signed . I've 
read this contract which states that the vehicle has to be serviced and maintained in 
accordance with Mercedes-Benz published service intervals.
MBF has confirmed that the service intervals are after twelve months or 15,000 miles 
whichever was the sooner.I haven't actually seen  the specific service intervals either within 
the contract or the vehicle returns standards document that MBF gave us. But from the 
contract Mrs J signed its clear she had to maintain and service the vehicle. And if she wasn't 
sure of the published service intervals she could have asked what these were.
The charges for an incomplete service history were attached to the contract Mrs J signed. 
So Mrs J was aware there would be a charge, and roughly what this would be,in the event 
services were missed.
Mrs J hasn't given us any evidence or told us she had the vehicle serviced whilst she had it 
Her main point seems to refer to the service due on return of the car  So I am not sure if she 
had other services carried out or not.
Mrs J  said as MBF has no service record it shouldn't be able to charge her for services it 
can't prove she didn't do. But  Mrs J hasn't given us any evidence or told us she had the car 
serviced so I think it was reasonable of MBF to conclude no services were carried out even if 
it didn't have the service history.
Mrs J's main point seems to be her understanding that an annual service would be due on 
the date of PDI and this would have been after she returned the car.
We don't know when the PDI was . As i understand it the car was a brand new one  
registered on 12 February 2015,  Mrs J signed the finance agreement on 11 February 2015, 
the car was delivered on 23 February 2015, Mrs J's agreement started on 24 February 2015 
and Mrs J's car was inspected on 22 February 2019.
As the PDI must have been before Mrs J got the car - I think its likely it would have been 
when the car was registered or at the very least it must have been before Mrs J got the car. 
That means that the inspection MBF charged for must have been due before the car was 
inspected on 22 February 2019. I appreciate that this is only a matter of a few days. But I do 
feel that MBF were entitled to charge for that service.
I appreciate Mrs J has told us this matter has caused her a degree of stress. And has asked to be compensated for this. I do appreciate there is inevitably a degree of stress when 
complaints are made. 
In this case I don't think its appropriate to ask MBF to pay any compensation for two 
reasons. Firstly I haven't concluded that it has done anything wrong. And secondly it has 
already waived a significant sum of money for damage charges - some of which I think it 
would have been entitled to charge. So I think it has acted reasonably in dealing with Mrs J's 
complaint and I don't think it needs to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2020.
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman