DRN-2750664
The complaint
Mr I and Mrs M complain about the way Santander UK Plc treated them when their fixed 
interest rate expired on their mortgage account.
What happened
Mr I and Mrs Ms fixed interest rate on their mortgage expired in June 2020. In April 2020 
Mr I phoned Santander to ask about taking out a new rate. He explained that following 
extensive work hed completed on his property, it had increased in value. And so he wanted 
access to the interest rates offered to those borrowers with lower loan to value ratios (LTVs) 
than Santander currently had recorded for his mortgage. He wasnt happy with the interest 
rates offered for his propertys existing recorded LTV.
Santander explained that, due to the Covid 19 pandemic, physical valuations werent taking 
place at the time so they couldnt re-assess the value of the property. But they agreed Mr I 
and Mrs M could select a product from the next LTV band down as a concession.
In May 2020 Mr I and Mrs M successfully applied online for a variable interest rate product 
that tracked the Bank of England base rate for two years. This gave a rate payable at the 
time of 1.69%. This product was available to borrowers within Mr I and Mrs Ms existing LTV 
band.
Mr I complained. He didnt think it was reasonable that he should have to pay a higher 
interest rate than he felt he was eligible for, especially with the Bank of England base rate at 
an all time low. He asked Santander if they would extend his existing interest rate for a 
period of six months when he would hopefully be able to get his house re-valued. Or 
alternatively, he said he could take out a new rate, or revert to the standard variable rate 
(SVR) but Santander would have to pay the difference monthly in what he could have been 
paying had he been in a lower LTV band.
Santander explained that as they werent able to instruct a physical valuation of Mr I and 
Mrs Ms property due to government restrictions, they had offered them rates in the next 
band as a concession. They didnt agree to any of Mr Is proposals as there were interest 
rates available to him and Mrs M that they could choose to take out. If they didnt want to 
take out any of Santanders interest rates offered at the time, they could re-mortgage to 
another lender if they wanted. They didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr I and Mrs M brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into things but 
didnt uphold the complaint. She said Santander had acted reasonably by offering the rates 
in the next band to Mr I and Mrs M as they were unable to instruct a physical valuation. She 
didnt think Santander had been unreasonable when declining Mr Is proposals for an 
extension of his existing rate.
Mr I disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said that surveyors were still allowed to 
work during the lockdown as per government guidance so he should have been able to get 
his property re-valued. He didnt agree that he and Mrs M should have to bear the loss 
created by the pandemic whilst Santander increased their profits. He felt they should have 
done more to help him at the time.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the complaints been passed to 
me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, I think its important to acknowledge that during the time Mr I was asking 
Santander about new interest rates, the global pandemic had caused a significant impact to 
the operation of the mortgage industry. And the government guidance at the time advised 
everyone to stay at home. But whilst I appreciate those circumstances were out of 
Santanders and Mr I and Mrs Ms control, Santander still had a duty to treat Mr I and Mrs M 
fairly in relation to their mortgage, and so Ive thought about whether they did that 
considering the wider circumstances.
When Mr I called Santander in April 2020, they explained they couldnt instruct a valuation 
on his property as Mr I wanted. I appreciate Mr I disputes that surveyors werent able to work 
during that time, and Ive thought carefully about what hes said. Government guidance was 
regularly changing at that time, and was at times interpreted differently by different 
organisations. But whether or not surveying properties for valuation purposes was 
specifically prohibited by the government at that time  the guidance was quite clearly that 
everybody should stay at home where possible. Im aware from my knowledge of the 
mortgage industry and how lenders were operating at that time that lenders were not 
instructing valuations, and surveyors were not working. As a result, Im satisfied it was 
reasonable of Santander not to instruct a valuation as Mr I requested.
Obtaining an up to date valuation of the property was not a requirement in order for Mr I and 
Mrs M to get a new interest rate product on their mortgage. Mr I and Mrs M wanted an up to 
date valuation as they thought it would make them eligible for cheaper rates than Santander 
were offering in their existing LTV band. I can appreciate the reasons why Mr I wanted that 
to happen, but for the reasons Ive explained I dont think Santander were unfair not to 
instruct the valuation.
 
Santander had interest rates available for Mr I and Mrs M to take out if they wanted to fix 
another rate. And as a concession, they offered them rates in the next LTV band. Im 
satisfied that was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr I is also unhappy Santander didnt accept his proposals to extend his existing interest 
rate or pay him the difference between a rate he was able to take and the rate he thought he 
should have been paying had his LTV been reduced. I dont think Santander unfairly rejected 
those proposals. Mr I and Mrs Ms existing fixed rate was ending in June 2020. It was then 
for Mr I and Mrs M to make an informed choice about whether they wanted to take out one of 
Santanders rates they were eligible for at the time, revert to the SVR, or re-mortgage 
elsewhere. As I dont think Santander unfairly declined Mr Is request for a valuation, Im not 
persuaded they should have offered any other concessions to Mr I because he didnt like the 
rates available. Thats not something they were doing for other customers at the time, and 
not something I would have expected them to do.
There isnt an obligation for a lender to revalue a property once a product comes to an end  
thats a decision a lender is entitled to make. Whilst Santander do normally offer this, theyre not obligated to, so I dont think they were required to make any further concessions in 
regard to Mr I and Mrs Ms interest rate because of their inability to instruct a valuation.
I appreciate that Mr I is unhappy that the interest rate products Santander were offering at 
the time had not fallen in line with the reduction in the Bank of England base rate. It is 
ultimately up to lenders how they price their mortgage products, and the base rate is only 
one of the many things they take into account when they do so. Having said that, I note 
Santanders interest rate products were not significantly out of line with those charged by 
other lenders at the time.
Overall whilst I do understand Mr I and Mrs Ms frustrations, Im not satisfied Santander 
treated them unfairly. 
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman