DRN-4133154
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain about how Target Servicing Limited has administered their 
HomeBuy Direct shared equity loan, leading to problems when they wanted to redeem. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs N have a HomeBuy Direct loan, taken out in 2009. HomeBuy Direct loans are a 
form of shared equity loan, part of a government programme to support home ownership. It 
was a predecessor scheme to the help to buy scheme. In addition to their main mortgage, 
the borrower borrows a portion of the propertys purchase price. And when the loan is 
repaid, they must pay back the same percentage of the propertys then value as they 
originally borrowed. The repayment sum is determined by an independent valuation at the 
time of a redemption request. And while the loan remains outstanding it is interest free for 
the first five years  but interest is charged from year six onwards.
HomeBuy Direct loans are not regulated products, and the lender  Homes England, a 
government body  is not a regulated firm. But the lender has appointed Target to manage 
the loans on its behalf. Target is a regulated firm, and is carrying on the regulated activity of 
debt administration. Target is therefore responsible for answering this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs N decided to redeem their loan and contacted Target. They obtained a valuation 
for their property and asked Target for a redemption statement. They say Target told them 
their loan was in arrears because they hadnt been paying the interest and the arrears would 
need to be cleared first. 
Target agreed that the arrears could be included in the redemption amount. Mr and Mrs N 
say they were unaware of any arrears and complain that Target wrongly accused them of 
letting out their property. But in fact, the arrears had arisen because Target had been writing 
to the wrong address, and as a result Mr and Mrs N say werent aware they needed to make 
payment. Mr and Mrs N therefore want Target to write off the arrears.
Mr and Mrs N complain that Target was writing to the wrong address, that it wouldnt agree 
to write the arrears off, that it didnt respond promptly to them, and that as a result their 
valuation expired. 
Target agreed it had been writing to the wrong address. It offered £75 compensation, but 
didnt agree to write off the arrears. And it didnt think it had failed to respond promptly to 
Mr and Mrs N.
Our investigator said that the confusion with the address dated from before Targets 
involvement, and Target wrote to the address it had been given when it took over 
administration of the loan. She said that interest was payable under the terms of the 
agreement, and Mr and Mrs N would have known they were liable to pay interest, but they 
hadnt contacted Target or the lender either. So she didnt think it would be fair to write off 
the arrears. But she said Target ought to have agreed to include the arrears in the 
redemption sum and issued a redemption statement so Mr and Mrs N could apply to their 
mortgage lender. She said it should pay them £550 compensation.
Target didnt respond to the investigators view. Mr and Mrs N didnt agree with the 
investigator. They said the correct address was in place from when the loan completed in 
2009. So Target should have been using the correct address all along. And they said theyd 
had to pay more interest in the meantime because theyd been unable to redeem their loan. 
Theyd also not been able to take a new fixed interest rate with their mortgage lender. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case comes to me for a final decision to be made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a regulated entity, in administering the loan on behalf of the lender Target is carrying out 
the regulated activities of debt administration and debt collection.
Under the regulated activities, Target is performing the lenders duties, and exercising the 
lenders rights, under the terms of the credit agreement, as well as collecting payments the 
lender is entitled to. In my view this means that Target must do what the lender is required to 
do, and only take steps the lender is entitled to take, while acting on the lenders behalf. And 
as a regulated firm it has wider obligations to act fairly.
Although the lender is Homes England, it has appointed Target to act on its behalf. Mr and 
Mrs N have been told to deal with Target at all times since it took over administration of their 
loan.
Im satisfied that these are matters I can take into account in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In my view, as the appointed administrator and as the 
regulated entity carrying out regulated activities in its own right, Target is the appropriate firm 
to respond to this complaint. As a regulated entity carrying out a regulated activity, it has an 
obligation to act fairly and reasonably in performing the lenders duties.
Weve asked Target to provide a copy of the loan terms and conditions. It hasnt done so  
the terms and conditions it has provided relate to the later help to buy scheme, in place from 
2014, not the earlier HomeBuy Direct scheme Mr and Mrs N are part of.
However, I dont think its in dispute that interest is payable from five years after the loan is 
taken out. And its not in dispute that a valuation is required for redemption  with the 
valuation expiring if the loan is not redeemed within three months. So in the rest of this 
decision Ill proceed on that basis.
Mr and Mrs N bought their property in 2009. It was a new build at the time, and they say that 
the local authority only confirmed the final postal address after the property was completed, 
and after they had started the loan application process. Their property is on a corner plot, 
and it was initially intended its address would be on street B, but ended up on street C. By 
the time their purchase was completed, that was confirmed, and street C is the address Mr 
and Mrs N have always used. 
However, it seems Mr and Mrs Ns account was set up with their address being recorded as 
street B. It's unfortunate that the wrong address was recorded on Mr and Mrs Ns account. 
Thats not something I can hold Target responsible for, since the address was wrongly 
recorded before Target was appointed to administer the loan, and it inherited the customer 
information it was given when it took over. To start with at least, Target had no reason to 
know the wrong address was recorded on Mr and Mrs Ns account.When it was appointed, Target noted that the account was in arrears. It wrote to 
Mr and Mrs N  at street B  but the mail was returned undelivered. According to its notes, it 
tried to trace Mr and Mrs N by looking them up in the phone book, but without success. It 
doesnt appear to have made any other efforts to trace them between 2017 when it took over 
and when the redemption request was submitted in 2021. Although Mr and Mrs N were in 
contact with Target in 2020, theres no note of an issue with the address  possibly because 
Mr and Mrs N were able to pass security with just their postcode. 
When its letters were returned undelivered in 2017 and later, I think Target ought to have 
taken more steps to try and contact Mr and Mrs N. They had been living in the property 
throughout. As far as I can see from the contact notes, the only step Target took was to look 
them up in the local phonebook, without success. There are many other ways of tracing a 
customer it could have tried, but theres no evidence it did so. It just continued to send letters 
to the wrong address. 
However, I dont think Mr and Mrs N were unaware of their obligations. It was made clear 
when the loan was taken out that interest was payable after five years, and they would have 
known they werent making any payment. 
I think Mr and Mrs N were aware of the loan agreement, and the need to make payments, 
even before the issue with the address came to light in 2021. I say that not just because of 
the information they were given when taking out the loan, but also because Mrs N contacted 
Target in June 2020 to explain that shed been furloughed and to discuss the arrears on the 
account. At that time, Target had only been writing to the incorrect address and hadnt 
contacted Mr and Mrs N in any other way. So either Mr and Mrs N had been receiving at 
least some of Targets letters (possibly because they had been re-directed from street B, 
which was the next street), or they contacted Target because they were generally aware 
they should have been making payment. Either way, it doesnt seem Targets failure to trace 
the right address prevented Mr and Mrs N making contact in 2020, and so its likely that 
wasnt the sole reason Mr and Mrs N didnt get in touch sooner. 
I dont think it would be fair to write the arrears off or to direct Target not to collect the 
arrears. Interest is properly chargeable on Mr and Mrs Ns loan. And while Target could have 
done more to trace them to their correct address, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs N were 
unaware they were incurring  but not paying  the interest. So I think its reasonable that 
Target collects the outstanding interest when the loan is paid off. 
In July 2021, after theyd obtained a valuation, Mr and Mrs N asked Target to add the 
remaining arrears to the redemption balance, but Target told them the arrears would need to 
be repaid before a redemption request could be processed. However, it then agreed it could 
consider adding the outstanding arrears to the redemption balance.
At this point, a further issue arose. Mr and Mrs N wanted a redemption statement they could 
show their mortgage adviser, as theyd been told their mortgage lender would want to see 
the redemption statement before agreeing to lend them further funds to repay the loan. 
Target issued a redemption quotation showing the amount needed to redeem based on the 
loan balance. But it didnt include the outstanding arrears  and said it would only consider 
adding the outstanding arrears to the loan balance if Mr and Mrs N first provided a mortgage 
offer, showing they had the funds available to repay the loan. 
If this was satisfactory, Target would then include the arrears in a separate document known 
as the authority to complete  which is sent to Mr and Mrs Ns solicitor telling them how 
much is needed to be repaid to clear the loan balance. Mr and Mrs N say this wasnt good enough, because they needed to show their mortgage 
lender evidence of the full amount  loan balance and arrears  before it would issue a 
mortgage offer. This left them in something of a catch-22; they couldnt get a mortgage offer 
without a notice from Target including the full redemption amount, and they couldnt get the 
notice without a mortgage offer.
In the circumstances, I think it would have been fair for Target to have issued confirmation of 
the full outstanding amount. Even if it wasnt willing to issue an authority to complete until it 
had seen a mortgage offer covering the full outstanding balance, it could  for example  
have issued a redemption quotation for the repayment balance plus a letter showing the 
arrears. And Mr and Mrs N could then have shown these to their mortgage lender to confirm 
the full amount they needed to borrow. 
However, I dont think this is what prevented Mr and Mrs N proceeding with their 
re-mortgage. Target issued the redemption quotation  without the arrears  on 20 July 
2021. On 22 July, Mrs N complained about the outstanding arrears and said she expected 
them to be written off, not repaid, and had been advised that she was not liable for them. 
Ive already said that I dont think its fair and reasonable to expect Target to write off the 
arrears. As Mr and Mrs N disputed this, and made clear they expected the arrears to be 
written off, I dont think Mr and Mrs N would have applied for a mortgage offer to borrow an 
amount including the arrears even if Target had included that amount in the redemption 
quotation  since they did not think they were liable for that amount. Rather, I think they 
would have continued to dispute whether they were liable to pay the arrears at all, as in fact 
they did do.
As a result, they may well still not have been in a position to complete on their new 
mortgage, or repay their help to buy loan, until the question of whether they were liable for 
the arrears had been resolved. And by that time, the valuation would have expired and 
Mr and Mrs N would need to obtain an updated one before they could redeem their loan. A 
valuation is only valid for three months. 
Mr and Mrs N could also have paid or reduced the arrears  either in lump sums, or by 
increasing their monthly payments  since learning about them and before their redemption 
request. This would also have mitigated the problem at redemption.
Putting things right
I think it would have been fair and reasonable for Target to have given Mr and Mrs N 
complete information  either as part of, or alongside, the redemption quotation  of the total, 
including arrears, needed to redeem their loan. If Mr and Mrs N apply again to redeem their 
loan and there are still outstanding arrears, Target should give them full information about 
the total amount needing to be repaid, including any arrears.
But because I dont think its more likely than not that the redemption would have gone 
through in any case, I dont think it would be fair to ask Target to repay the additional interest 
Mr and Mrs N have paid in the meantime. 
While I cant hold Target responsible for causing the problem with their address  since that 
happened before Targets involvement  it should have resolved it sooner. I also think there 
is more it could have done to trace Mr and Mrs Ns correct address, which might have 
contributed to the arrears not building up to the level they did. And it didnt give them 
complete information about what theyd need to pay, which made it more difficult for them to 
have applied for their re-mortgage. Taking all that into account, I agree with the investigators 
recommendation that £550 compensation is fair to recognise the upset these failings caused Mr and Mrs N. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Target 
Servicing Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs N £550 compensation (including the £75 it has previously offered); 
and
Give Mr and Mrs N full information about the total amount needed to repay their loan, 
including any remaining arrears, should they make a further redemption request. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman