DRN-4183618
The complaint
Ms K complains about what happened when she asked Barclays Bank UK PLC for a 
mortgage. She said its delays meant her offer didnt last long enough for her to complete her 
purchase, and it refused to extend the offer until after her purchase fell through.
What happened
Ms K wanted to buy the property she was then renting. Her landlord had it valued, and they
agreed a price, then Ms K approached her bank, Barclays, for a mortgage. Ms K told us that
this didnt go at all well. She set out a timeline, with some brief commentary.
10 Feb  mortgage agreement in principle received
23 Feb - initial telephone appointment
25 Feb  email confirmation that valuation had been instructed but not arranged
3 March  physical inspection of the property for valuation
22 March  valuation received - property down valued by £45,000
23 March - appeal requested
24 March - request for evidence of sellers recent valuation by Barclays
25 March  evidence provided
28 March - additional evidence of recent sales requested by Barclays
31 March - additional evidence provided
13 April  valuation appeal refused, no similar properties sold recently
13 April  revised mortgage rates (based on new valuation) requested from Barclays, and
further information requested by Ms K the same day
30 April  another information request to Barclays
6 May - application completed, based on the revised deposit amount
16 June - confirmation of the mortgage offer  which expired on 23 August
Ms K said she asked for an extension to her offer in early August, but was only offered two
weeks. By 18 August, she had made a complaint, asking for an extension of around three
months. Ms K said she heard nothing substantive on this until 29 September, when Barclays
rang to say it wouldnt grant the extension, it was against its policy. This was confirmed in a
further call on 7 October, and a letter of the same date. The sale then fell through.
Ms K said that with the subsequent increase in mortgage rates, shes been unable to buy the
property. Shed had a very bitter falling out with her landlord, and initially feared she would
no longer be able to live in the property.
Ms K said she had lost £1,251.60 in lawyers fees, and shed spent an additional six months
of rent, which was £4,050, when she should have bought the property. Ms K also said she
wanted compensation for just how stressful this had been. Barclays had offered £100, but
she thought paying that for each day this had been ongoing would be more reasonable, so
she wanted £100 a day, which added up to £23,900. Ms K said she hoped that paying this
would mean that Barclays wouldnt do the same thing to other people in future.
Barclays accepted it had caused some delays here. It said that there was a delay in
processing due to the absence of its mortgage advisor from 11 April 4 May. And although
the mortgage advisor had processed the application on 6 May, the underwriters then caused
further delays, and the offer wasnt issued until 16 June.
Barclays had offered Ms K a two-week extension, but she didnt want this. Barclays said its
policy isnt to offer three month extensions on mortgage offers. It had initially replied on 7
October 2022 to Ms K to tell her that, and offer £100. But then shortly after this it decided to
grant the three months extension. Barclays said Ms K didnt then want to take this up.
Ms K then provided some more detail on her complaint. She said after her sale fell through,
she had completely lost trust in the bank, and couldnt put herself through this again. But she
also said that she had no credibility left with the seller, who had paid legal fees and was
asking her to cover these.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld in part. He said Barclays had
offered a two week extension, which Ms K declined. He said Barclays wasnt under any
obligation to extend its mortgage offers. When it initially extended the offer by two weeks, to
6 September 2022, that gave Ms K approximately 12 weeks from the date of offer, to
exchange contracts. He thought Barclays had caused around five weeks of delays to Ms Ks
offer being issued, and he said Barclays should pay Ms K £300 in compensation. But he said
Barclays wasnt responsible for Miss K not continuing with her property purchase.
Our investigator explained that our service isnt a regulator, and we cant require Barclays to
change how it deals with customers in future.
Ms K contacted our service to say she wasnt happy with this. She said we hadnt noted that
she was never told Barclays was considering a three month extension, until after the sale fell
through. She just got letters saying Barclays was still investigating. Then she got a letter
saying her complaint had been turned down, with an offer of £100.
Ms K explained how difficult it was to tell this to the seller, also her landlord. They simply
didnt believe that such extensive problems were caused by the lender, they thought she
was lying to cover up that she wanted to back out of the purchase.
Ms K then told Barclays that the deal had fallen through, and she stressed that it was only
then that Barclays said it would extend after all. Ms K said if Barclays had just told her that it
was still considering things, then things could have been very different for her.
Finally Ms K said she just didnt understand why Barclays process was so slow, or why her
property hadnt changed in value over the last ten years. Because no agreement was
reached, this case then came to me for a final decision. And I then reached my provisional 
decision on this case.My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
This case isnt about requiring Barclays to give a specific duration for all its mortgage 
offers. What I am looking at here is the specific circumstances of this case. And in 
circumstances where Ms K could be expected to have engaged solicitors and incurred 
costs for her purchase, I think it would be unreasonable if Barclays had caused delays in 
issuing a mortgage offer, those delays then shortened the usual time for its mortgage 
offer, and didnt allow Ms K sufficient time to complete her purchase.
So now I need to think about whether thats what has happened here. Ill look at the 
delays Ms K experienced, and the reasons for them.
Barclays instructed valuers on 25 February, but the report wasnt received until 22 
March. I dont think this delay is Barclays fault. It relies on professionals to provide this 
report for it, and unfortunately, when those professionals are particularly busy, this can 
take longer to provide than either the lender or the borrower would like.
I also dont think Barclays is responsible for the lower valuation of Ms Ks property. That 
wasnt Barclays conclusion, and it is entitled to rely on the professional advice it 
receives.
But I do think Barclays is responsible for not giving Ms K the right information on a 
valuation appeal right away. She was told initially to send through a valuation her 
landlord had instructed, on 24 March. It wasnt until late in the day on 29 March that she 
was told she would need to provide evidence of three comparable properties, close by, 
that had sold very recently. I think Ms K should have been given this advice when she 
first asked about an appeal.
Ms K couldnt provide the evidence Barclays wanted, as there were no such properties. I
think it would have been helpful if shed been advised by Barclays to consider 
alternative lending then, rather than just pursuing an appeal which was extremely 
unlikely to succeed, and which took another two weeks to resolve.
Once Ms Ks appeal was refused, she sought to change the basis of her borrowing, 
based on the new valuation. I can see this took some time, and Barclays accepted that 
the absence of its mortgage advisor between 11 April and 4 May caused delays in 
amending Ms Ks mortgage application. I think that Ms K should have been able to 
make this revised application within a few days of her valuation appeal being refused, 
on 13 April.
Barclays then accepted it caused further delays, because its underwriters received this
application on 6 May, but Barclays didnt make an offer until 16 June.
When Ms K received her offer on 16 June, it had an expiry date of 23 August. Ms K then 
had less than ten weeks to complete her purchase, at a time when all those working in 
the property market were extremely busy.
I think Ms Ks offer ought to have been issued around the end of April, not in mid-June. 
That would have given Ms K an additional six weeks, giving her a total of a little over 16 
weeks to complete her sale, which would be a more realistic timescale to complete a purchase such as hers. But this purchase could still have stayed on track, if Barclays 
had then offered an extension which would allow Ms K to complete her transaction.
Barclays later offered Ms K an extension of two weeks. Whilst I dont think Barclays had 
to agree to an extension of a little over three months, as Ms K requested, I dont think an
extension of two weeks was sufficient to make up for the delays that Barclays had 
caused in this case. Nor was it likely to be long enough to get Ms Ks purchase back on 
track. I think a longer extension should have been offered at this point.
Ms Ks longer extension request was finally refused in October  some months after her 
offer had expired. Ms K said her sale then completely fell through. And, in an indication 
of how bad relations had got between herself and her landlord, I can see that at the time 
she feared she would also have to move out.
Barclays said it did then grant the extension she wanted. Its internal emails say that this 
was offered in recognition of Barclays delays. Its emails suggest Barclays started to 
consider this in late September, over a month after Ms K had complained. And although 
the evidence isnt entirely clear on this point, it seems likely that the extension it offered 
on 11 October was only three months from the expiry date of her original offer, so until 
23 November. Its not clear that Ms K could have revived her purchase in this time, or 
indeed that it would still have been possible for Ms K to persuade the seller to engage 
with her at all, even if a longer extension had been given.
I dont think that Barclays carries all the responsibility for Ms Ks sale falling through, and 
the consequent poor relations between her and her landlord. However, I do think it 
carries a significant part of the responsibility for that.
I dont think its reasonable to ask Barclays to pay Ms Ks rent for the period in question. 
Ms K would have faced living expenses of either rent or a mortgage during this period, 
whether her purchase was successful or not. And I dont think a payment of £100 per 
day would be fair and reasonable, or in line with the published information our service 
offers on awards. 
But I do think its reasonable to ask Barclays to pay the legal costs of £1,251.60 that Ms 
K told us about, providing Ms K can supply invoices for this amount, and show she has 
paid them. (I would ask her to supply this evidence in reply to my provisional decision.)
And, whether or not Ms K can supply that evidence of legal costs, I would still say that 
what has gone wrong here has had a serious effect on her. It has affected her ongoing
relationship with her landlord, and it has put paid, for the moment at least, to her dreams 
of owning her own home.
I dont think that means Barclays has to pay Ms K £100 per day, as shes suggested. I 
dont think that amount of compensation would be in line with our services overall 
approach to awards. But I do think Barclays should pay more than the £100 it has 
offered. For the reasons set out above, I would ask Barclays to pay £600 in 
compensation. Ill allow Barclays to count any previous payment it has made towards 
that total, in case it has already paid the amount of £100 it offered.
On the evidence Ive seen to date. I think that would provide a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays said it would accept the provisional decision, but it would need a breakdown of the 
solicitors charges to evidence exactly what the fee comprises of. It said it thought solicitors 
usually cant start any work until the offer is received, so Barclays wasnt clear what the 
charges would be for.
Ms K wrote to supply the requested evidence. She sent us the invoice from her solicitors, 
and proof of two payments, an advance of £300, and then a further closing payment of 
£951.60. So Im satisfied that the amount I mentioned in my provisional decision is 
appropriate to be included in this award. 
Ms K also said that she wanted to add some additional points. She said she did end up 
having to move out of the property, the landlord had remained quite bitter over her refusal to 
pay his legal fees. She showed us that her address had changed. 
Ms K clarified that she hadnt accepted the offer of £100 from Barclays. My decision below 
only allows Barclays to deduct an amount it can show it has already paid to Ms K for this 
complaint. So if, as Ms K says, no payment has been made, then Barclays will need to pay 
in full.
Ms K also wanted me to know that Barclays had never confirmed the two week extension 
was granted, and even if it had, that wasnt what shed requested. Its my understanding that 
Ms K had already said she was opposed to this, before Barclays could confirm whether or 
not it would be available.
Ms K said she understood she would still have had to make payments either towards a 
mortgage or rent, but she said the amounts were significantly different. She set out the 
comparable figures for renting or paying a mortgage, to illustrate that mortgage costs were 
far lower for the flat she had been hoping to purchase, and she said given the increases in 
monthly rent in the current market, this situation was only likely to continue. 
I understand Ms Ks point that rent costs alone may be more than the cost of a mortgage, 
however, I think there are two points to make in response to that. The first is that the cost of 
a mortgage alone doesnt represent the true monthly cost of property ownership. So the 
difference in actual costs overall is perhaps not as stark as Ms K suggests. And the second 
is that, although I did think Barclays carried a significant part of the responsibility for what 
went wrong here, I didnt find it was solely responsible for Ms Ks purchase falling through. 
I think the compensation awarded here does take account of the role Barclays has played. 
Im sorry to have to tell Ms K that I dont think it would be fair and reasonable, in the 
circumstances of this case, to ask Barclays to contribute to ongoing costs that she has 
described. 
For those reasons, I havent changed my mind about the appropriate award in this case. Ill 
now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Ms K £1,251.60 in solicitors costs, 
and £600 in compensation. Barclays Bank UK PLC can count towards that total any amount 
it has already paid Ms K for this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman