DRN-3614283
The complaint
Ms A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt fully refunded her for her losses after she 
fell victim to a scam in 2021.
What happened
Ms A holds a current account with Barclays. In April 2021, she says shed seen a post on a 
celebritys social media page which she responded to. Ms A then contacted this individual on 
a messaging platform. Ms A didnt realise at the time that she was messaging a scammer 
rather than the celebrity.
After exchanging some messages, Ms A was told she could arrange VIP tickets to meet the 
celebrity in person. She was told she needed to pay the celebritys agent for this. 
Ms A wasnt sure. She had significant doubts that it really was the celebrity she was dealing 
with and thought it could be someone pretending to be them. She found the messages were 
convincing though  similar to what shed expect the celebrity to write. 
Ms A questioned how she could know who she was dealing with. She requested a video 
chat to establish their identity, but this didnt happen. She also questioned why the email 
address of the supposed agent didnt look like it was connected to a legitimate business. 
She initially refused to send any money.
However, a few days later Ms A changed her mind and decided to send the payment 
requested. She made a single payment of £10,000 to the account details shed been 
provided with  supposedly those of the celebritys agent.
Ms A was then asked to send more money and to buy gift vouchers, being promised shed 
be given a large sum of money in return. She realised this wasnt likely to be true. She asked 
to have her original payment refunded but this didnt happen.
Ms A contacted Barclays and reported her loss. Barclays tried to recover the money Ms A 
had sent to the scammer, but no money remained in the recipient account to be recovered. 
Barclays offered Ms A support from a victim support charity, but Ms A declined.
Barclays looked into what had happened as an Authorised Push Payment scam (APP scam) 
under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM 
Code). The CRM Code provides additional protection when customers fall victim to APP 
scams such as this. 
Barclays didnt think it was liable to fully reimburse Ms A under the CRM Code. It didnt think 
Ms A had taken enough care to check this was a legitimate transaction before shed sent the 
payment. However, Barclays accepted it hadnt met all its requirements under the CRM 
Code, because it thought it could have done more to intervene and warn Ms A. 
It said it equally shared liability for the resulting loss with Ms A and so reimbursed Ms A half 
of what shed lost. 
Ms A didnt accept this. She referred her complaint to our service for an impartial review. 
Our Investigator looked into what had happened. She thought Barclays had treated Ms A 
fairly in refunding half of the money lost. She thought Ms A had concerns about several 
aspects of what happened, and that this should have prompted her to take a more cautious 
approach before sending the payment. The Investigator didnt think Ms A had a reasonable 
basis for believing she was making the payment to who she thought she was, or that it was 
for the legitimate purchase of a ticket. So, while Barclays had accepted a share of the blame 
the Investigator thought it fair for Ms A to share equal liability.
Ms A didnt accept the investigators view on the matter. In light of this disagreement, I have 
been asked to reach a final decision on her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as those of the Investigator and for 
similar reasons.
Im extremely sorry to hear about what happened to Ms A. I can understand entirely why she 
wants Barclays to give her the money she lost, and why she doesnt accept the bank neednt 
take full responsibility.
But while I have sympathy for Ms A in what happened, I have to recognise that the principal 
cause of her losses here were the scammers who deceived her. Even though this was a 
scam and Ms A lost money to this scam, Barclays does not necessarily have a responsibility 
to refund her in these circumstances. As a starting point, because Ms A authorised the 
payment, she is presumed liable for it. 
However, the CRM Code exists to provide additional protection for the victims of APP 
scams. Im satisfied this payment was the result of an APP scam and is one that falls within 
the scope of the CRM Code.
Barclays has accepted it could have done more here. It accepts it fell short of the required 
standards under the CRM Code, by not taking better steps to intervene and warn Ms A. So, 
it has accepted a share of liability for the loss under the terms of the code.
With Barclays having already accepted it shares the blame in this transaction, the CRM 
Code says Ms A should be reimbursed at least in part.
In these circumstances, the CRM Code says the extent of reimbursement is based on 
whether the bank has established that its customer made the payment without taking 
sufficient care. Barclays says it has established that here, and so says it is entitled to only 
reimburse Ms A with half of her loss. 
Specifically, Barclays says Ms A made the payment without holding a reasonable basis for 
believing that the person with whom she was transacting was legitimate or that the payee 
was the person she was expecting to pay.So, the issue I need to determine here is whether Barclays has established this exception 
can be fairly applied  in other words, that Ms A made the payment without that reasonable 
basis for belief. In determining this point, I have carefully considered everything Ms A has 
submitted as well as the evidence submitted by the bank. 
Looking over the chat messages from the time, it seems to me that Ms A knew something 
wasnt right. More than once she expressed serious doubts about who she was dealing with 
and identified risk factors when what she was being told didnt match the facts. Ms As 
instincts on this were correct. 
Taking everything into account, and looking at the discussion she had with the scammer, I 
think ultimately Ms A decided to go ahead and send the payment in awareness of the risk 
she was taking - that this might not be a legitimate transaction and further that she couldnt 
really be sure who she was dealing with. That means I cant fairly conclude she made the 
payment with a reasonable basis for believing it was legitimate. So, I agree that Barclays has 
been able to establish it can fairly apply the exception to full reimbursement under the CRM 
Code.
Id note that the CRM Code contains provisions to the effect that, if it would unreasonable to 
have expected the victim to have protected themselves from the scam, then they should be 
refunded in full regardless of the above. Barclays doesnt consider Ms A was unable to 
protect herself at the time the scam took place. I agree. Reading the chat history 
demonstrates that Ms A identified the risks she was taking in making the payment and 
identified the signs that all was not right. I have seen nothing to make me think she was 
unable to have taken appropriate steps in response. Rather, I think she chose to proceed 
knowing those risks.
The CRM Code does not represent the full extent of the obligations on Barclays. It exists to 
provide additional protection where it is relevant. Nonetheless I have also considered 
whether Ms A might be entitled to a greater level of reimbursement outside the provisions of 
the CRM Code. But for similar reasons to those Ive set out in relation to the CRM Code, I 
think it is fair and reasonable that both Ms A and Barclays share blame equally for the losses 
that resulted from this scam  I find both contributed to this loss.
In saying all of this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear that Ms A was the victim of 
this scam. The actions of those behind the scam are wholly cynical and Ms A was the victim 
of a crime. She paid a considerable sum in the hope shed receive a VIP ticket to meet this 
celebrity and has received nothing at all in return. 
But I can only look at Barclays actions here. I cannot hold the bank liable for the actions of 
those who have tricked and deceived Ms A  except to the extent that the bank should share 
the blame for the impact this had on Ms A, and what the CRM Code requires of it now.
With that in mind, and based on what Ive seen, I dont consider that Barclays needs to do 
more than it has already done. It does not need to refund more than the 50% it already has 
paid to Ms A. I understand that this is not the outcome Ms A wants and I recognise the 
impact all of this has had on her. But I can reassure Ms A that Ive carefully considered all 
the circumstances of her complaint before reaching what I consider to be the fair and 
reasonable decision in all of the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms As complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman