DRN-3542676
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy about the early repayment charge (ERC) they incurred when 
they redeemed their mortgage with Santander UK Plc. 
They say they wanted to stay with Santander, but it wasnt willing to lend them the money 
they wanted to buy their new property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had an existing Santander mortgage, and in February 2021 they took a new 
fixed rate product through a mortgage broker. The new rate was fixed until 2 May 2023 and, 
if redeemed before then, an ERC of 3% of the amount repaid would be charged.
Mr and Mrs C already had their house on the market when they took the new rate but had 
been struggling to sell it due to some building works being undertaken by a neighbour. 
In March 2021 they accepted an offer to sell their property and they applied  through their 
mortgage broker  to port their Santander mortgage to the new property, plus borrow around 
an additional £6,000.
After carrying out an affordability check, Santander declined the application. It told the 
mortgage broker that it would be able to consider an application for the same amount of 
borrowing as the existing mortgage (ie without the additional £6,000), but the broker instead 
opted to put the application to a different lender.
The mortgage was redeemed in June 2021 and an ERC of around £4,000 was charged.
Mr and Mrs C complained to Santander, and Santander didnt uphold the complaint.
Our investigator looked at everything that had been provided and said Santander hadnt 
done anything wrong. He said Santander gave the broker an alternative option so the 
mortgage could potentially have stayed with Santander without the ERC being incurred, and 
the ERC was correctly charged in line with the mortgage offer. 
Mr and Mrs C requested a decision from an ombudsman, saying they didnt think theyd 
been treated fairly. The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
A mortgage loan and a mortgage product are two different things. A loan is the underlying 
transaction in which money is lent; the product is the terms that sit on top. For example, an 
agreement to borrow £100,000 over 25 years is a mortgage loan; an agreement that for the 
first two years a fixed interest rate rather than the standard variable rate will apply is the 
mortgage product that sits on top. 
In moving house, a borrower pays off their old mortgage with the proceeds of the sale. They 
also, and separately, apply for a new mortgage to fund buying the new property. A lender will 
consider the new application on its own merits. If its prepared to grant a new mortgage, it 
will then consider whether to port across the old product  if the terms of the old product 
allow it. These are two separate decisions. 
If a lender isnt prepared to grant a new loan, then porting cant happen, and so the 
mortgage product ends with the old loan; depending on the product terms, an ERC may be 
payable. 
Looking at the mortgage offer I think it was made sufficiently clear that while porting was a 
feature of the mortgage product there were conditions attached. 
I understand Mr and Mrs C feel that Santander hasnt treated them fairly. But in my view the 
decision not to lend as much as Mr and Mrs C requested (that is, an increase in the 
mortgage debt) was one that Santander was entitled to make as a matter of its commercial 
discretion. The fact they could get a mortgage elsewhere doesnt mean that Santander did 
anything wrong. Different lenders have their own policies, which is only right. 
Santander gave the broker the option to reduce the requested amount to the same amount 
as was currently outstanding, so in effect port the mortgage on a like-for-like basis, but the 
broker chose not to do so.
It is unfortunate that Mr and Mrs C had only just taken out a new fixed rate product, but thats 
not something I can hold Santander liable for as the advice for that was given by the 
mortgage broker, not by Santander.
If Mr and Mrs C didnt want to incur an ERC they had the option to amend their Santander 
application so they would only be borrowing the same amount as they currently had 
outstanding (and from the notes on file it seems that was achievable). I cant hold Santander 
liable for the decision to do otherwise as the broker placed the application elsewhere 
instead, in the knowledge Mr and Mrs C would incur the ERC. 
The ERC was clearly set out in the paperwork Santander provided before Mr and Mrs C took 
out the product. 
For the reasons given above I dont consider it appropriate to order Santander to refund all, 
or part, of that ERC.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman