DRN-1837083
The complaint
Miss S complains about the repairs carried out at her home by AXA Insurance UK Plc 
following her home insurance claim for damage caused by an escape of water. 
What happened
Around September 2018, there was an escape of water in Miss Ss bathroom so she made a 
claim under her AXA home insurance policy. The claim was accepted and the repair scoped. 
It was decided that the best way to access the leak was through the kitchen ceiling. AXAs 
contractors tested a sample of the ceiling for the presence of asbestos and the test was 
returned positive. 
AXA appointed its specialist asbestos contractor to attend and remove the ceiling which took 
place around the end of October 2018. 
In the coming months Miss S noticed debris falling from behind her kitchen wall units onto 
her work tops. About six months after the repair it occurred to her that the debris might be 
plaster from the removed ceiling. She was worried that it could contain asbestos so Miss S 
contacted AXA in April 2019.  
Miss S told AXA that she didnt think its contractor had sealed the top of the wall units to the 
wall so debris was able to get behind them. AXA told Miss S that it would arrange for its 
contractor return to the property to inspect what might have happened. The following day, 
Miss S called AXA to say shed received legal advice which said she shouldnt allow the 
contractor that had conducted the original repair back into her home to carry out a visual 
inspection. Miss S told AXA that she would arrange to get the debris tested herself. AXA 
said that it was only fair that it be given the opportunity to rectify any issue that couldve 
occurred. 
Miss S told AXA she had no confidence in its contractor and said it should pay for an 
independent test to be done. She said she would take legal action and wanted to escalate 
the matter as a complaint as no-one from AXA had returned her call from 4 days previously. 
Miss S remained adamant that AXAs contractor should not return and she said shed now 
had her own test done on the debris and that it had come back positive for asbestos. AXA 
reimbursed Miss S for the cost of the test. Miss S said she now wanted an air test done. 
This was arranged with the same company that had tested the debris and AXA agreed to 
meet the cost for doing so of £225 plus VAT. 
Miss S said she thought her kitchen units needed to be removed and that she would speak 
to the testing company about arranging for another company to do so. AXA said to Miss S 
that she could arrange do this but depending on what the testing company and kitchen fitter 
said it may need to appoint a loss adjuster to assess if the units did actually need removing. 
AXA spoke to the testing company Miss S had used and it said the asbestos identified in the 
debris was low risk. It said it had no concerns about Miss S or her family continuing to live in 
the property and there was no real health risk either. 
Miss S said to AXA that low risk was not the same as no risk and it could take 20-30 years 
for a health issue to arise. She maintained that AXAs contractor had been negligent in 
failing to tape between the back of the wall units and the wall so she was going to bring legal 
action against it. AXA said that both its contractor and the testing company had said the risk 
to health was insignificant so it wouldnt, at this stage, be taking matters any further. But it 
said if the results of Miss Ss air test came back positive it would of course advise on what 
would be the best way to proceed. AXA said that it understood that she wouldnt want its 
contractor to carry out any further works should any prove necessary, but it repeated that it 
was only fair it be allowed the opportunity to reattend, inspect and respond to the 
accusations. 
AXA said if Miss S wouldnt allow its contractor to reattend then it would need photos of the 
debris. Miss S said she was unhappy AXA hadnt resolved her complaint yet.
The air test confirmed there was no risk to health and the presence of any airborne asbestos 
didnt exceed the control limit of 0.1f/ml. Miss S told AXA that the testing company said that if 
itd carried out a brush test (creating dust from the debris into the air) the test would likely 
have failed. So, Miss S remained concerned about the future health of herself and her 
family.
Miss S approached a specialist asbestos removal company which quoted to remove the wall 
units and environmentally clean the kitchen (at a cost of £2,400 plus VAT). It said it was 
unlikely the wall units could be reused as irreparable damage was likely to occur when being 
dismantled. So, Miss S contacted two companies to provide quotes to provide a replacement 
kitchen (at a cost of approximately £20,000) which she sent to AXA to consider. She said 
she wouldnt accept any kitchen contractor proposed by AXA. And she said she was 
suffering from stress and inconvenience. 
Having reviewed the quotes the surveyor said it was unable to approve them without first 
inspecting the damage. 
Miss S told AXA she was unhappy it wouldnt pay her contractors fee (£2,400) to clean the 
kitchen. And she said she was still unwilling to let any of AXAs contractors or surveyors 
come out. The surveyor tried to contact Miss S to arrange a visit. Miss S raised further 
issues with AXA but it replied to say that it was unable to move the matter forward unless 
she could consent to it attending to validate the alleged damage. Miss S continued to say to 
AXA that she remained unhappy that it wouldnt validate her claim based on her reports and 
quotes.  
Miss S eventually consented to AXAs surveyor visiting in June 2019. The surveyor reported 
to AXA that debris on top of and behind the wall units looked like stripped lining wallpaper or 
something similar rather than plaster (from the ceiling). The surveyor said it was unable to 
confirm where the debris may have come from but that it didnt appear to be a material that 
would contain asbestos. 
AXA told Miss S that it was prepared to pay for the kitchen to be cleaned. It said as her air 
test was negative there was no need for the entire kitchen to be replaced. 
AXA issued its final response to Miss Ss complaint in July 2019. It said there was no 
evidence that its contractor had been negligent when removing the ceiling. It said it was 
confident the debris came from the redecoration of the kitchen not the removal of the ceiling. 
So, it said it couldnt offer to replace the kitchen but was prepared to arrange to have it 
cleaned and to remove any debris left. It paid Miss S compensation of £100 for the stress 
she was caused whilst waiting for the test results. Miss S told AXA she would issue legal proceedings against it. AXA instructed solicitors and 
told Miss S that they would now be investigating her accusations and corresponding directly 
with her from here on. AXA paid Miss S a further £150 in compensation.
 
In September 2019 AXAs solicitors wrote to Miss S. They said AXAs contractor had carried 
out the ceiling removal in full compliance with the required regulations. They said there was 
no evidence that the gaps between the wall units and the wall hadnt been sealed. And they 
said theyd contacted the testing company used by Miss S and itd said a brush test was 
typically carried out before the asbestos work enclosure was removed. Consequently, such a 
test wasnt an appropriate one for after the clearance works were completed. Finally, they 
said it was difficult to reconcile how the debris Miss S reported as falling could be associated 
with the removal of the ceiling. It said the air test results supported this  and that there was 
no risk to health - as did the surveyors observations that the debris was likely connected to 
the replacement ceiling and redecoration works carried out. As a gesture of goodwill, the 
offer of a further air test after the kitchen was cleaned was made. 
Miss S replied to say she didnt accept the solicitors findings. She said she wanted her 
kitchen environmentally cleaned and the backs of her wall units tested. And she said shed 
need to be placed in alternative accommodation whilst this was being done. 
AXAs solicitors responded again. They said the contractor confirmed hed sheeted up the 
kitchen correctly before starting to remove the ceiling. They said there was no evidence that 
the debris Miss S reported as falling was asbestos material from the ceiling. And they 
pointed out that the type of material used on the ceiling was low hazard such that no 
airborne fibre levels were expected to exceed the control limit of 0.1 f/ml. AXAs solicitors 
repeated that AXAs contractor had not been negligent and that there was no risk to health. 
They also queried why Miss S had taken 6 months to raise the matter with AXA if, as she 
claimed, she was removing bags of debris daily. The offer to clean the kitchen (whilst leaving 
the units in situ) and carry out a further air test was repeated but Miss Ss claim for a new 
kitchen, alternative accommodation and compensation was rejected. 
Miss S didnt accept the solicitors findings. She made a data subject access request to AXA. 
On receiving its file she said it had clearly accepted liability but was now seeking to change 
its mind. She also made a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Ss complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He 
didnt think that AXA had treated Miss S unfairly or unreasonably. Miss S, in response, 
repeated the points she had made before about AXAs alleged negligence and the way it 
had treated her. She said AXAs surveyor had made a voice recording of his visit. She said 
hed also make some off the record comments to her that he could see how debris had 
dropped from the ceiling behind the units. She said it was suspicious that the surveyors 
written report differed from what he told her during her visit. Miss S said our investigator 
should obtain the recordings and listen to them.
Our investigator obtained the recordings and listened to them but they didnt make him 
change his mind about the complaint. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive set out the facts of this case in some detail above. Its my role to decide whether or not 
AXA has treated Miss S fairly and reasonably in the way it handled the post-repair concerns 
she referred to it in April 2019. I have to say I think it has. And whilst I appreciate Miss Ss 
strength of feeling about the negligence she attributes to AXAs contractor, the evidence Ive 
seen doesnt allow me to reasonably conclude that AXA has been unfair in the way its 
addressed the concerns Miss S has raised. So, Im not going to ask AXA to do any more 
than its already done here. 
Miss Ss kitchen ceiling was covered in a textured coating. Ceiling coatings which contain 
asbestos are low hazard materials such that any ceiling that collapses presents very little 
health risk to the occupants or those sent to clean up. Asbestos fibres (which could become 
airborne) arent readily generated by textured coatings. Any debris and dust is mainly non-
asbestos. 
AXAs response to the concern Miss S drew to its attention in April 2019 was, I think, a 
reasonable one; it offered to arrange for its contractor return to the property to inspect what 
might have happened. Repairs can, of course, fail. But if a policyholder alleges they have, it 
is only fair that the insurer, in the first instance, be permitted to assess what might have 
happened. I can see that Miss S told AXA the day after it offered to attend that she wasnt 
prepared to allow it to do so.
Miss S said she intended to get the debris tested herself and that AXA should pay for it. AXA 
did so. When the test on the debris was done it was found to contain asbestos. Miss S then 
said she needed an air test done which she wanted AXA to pay for, which it did. The air 
test confirmed there was no risk to health and the presence of any airborne asbestos didnt 
exceed the control limit of 0.1f/ml. 
I can see that AXA contacted the testing company to discuss the levels of asbestos present 
in the sample Miss S had sent it for testing and that itd said it was low risk. Miss S is, of 
course, correct that low risk isnt the same as no risk but the specialist company she 
engaged has said on more than one occasion that the one piece of debris it tested 
presented no risk to health. The air test confirmed the same. 
I think AXA treated Miss S reasonably by paying for the independent testing she requested. 
And having done so, and received the results, I think it was reasonable for it to reiterate its 
offer to reattend and inspect what was going on. I appreciate that Miss S was told by the 
company that gave her the quote to carry out the environmental clean of her kitchen that the 
wall units would need to come off and in all likelihood they would not be able to be reinstated 
(although its not clear from the quote why this is the case). In any event Miss S obtained two 
quotes to replace her kitchen for about £20,000 and told AXA she wouldnt accept its 
contractors carrying out the works. 
I dont think its reasonable to require an insurer to settle for alleged damage or to make 
good potential failed repairs without first permitting it to assess its liability. So, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for AXA to decline to settle Miss Ss claim based on the quotes shed 
obtained. Nor for it to say it could take Miss Ss concerns no further unless it was allowed to 
visit. 
Ive seen the surveyors report and Ive listened to the recordings he took of his visit to Miss 
S. Its the surveyors opinion that the debris on top of and behind the wall units looked like 
stripped lining wallpaper or something similar rather than plaster (from the ceiling). The 
surveyor said it was unable to confirm where the debris may have come from but that it 
didnt appear to be a material that would contain asbestos (I understand the kitchen was 
redecorated after the new ceiling was installed). Unfortunately for Miss S the recordings the surveyor took dont state that he thought the debris had fallen from the ceiling behind the 
units or that the kitchen should be replaced. 
Since the surveyors visit AXA has offered on several occasions to pay for the kitchen to be 
cleaned and remove any debris. It has also offered to arrange for a further air test to be 
carried out after the clean. It hasnt offered to remove the wall units when doing so but given 
the test results, I dont think thats unreasonable. 
Miss S is certain that AXAs contractor failed to properly seal the top and back of the wall 
units. The contractor says he did. There are no photographs to prove either way so Im 
unable to make a definitive finding even if I needed to. I dont need to because all I have to 
decide is whether AXA, when presented by Miss Ss concern that its contractor had acted 
negligently responded to that concern in a fair and reasonable way and, for the reasons Ive 
given above, I think it did. 
AXA has paid Miss S compensation of £250 for any inconvenience she was caused. This 
service is able to award compensation where an insurer, through its words or deeds, causes 
distress and/or inconvenience to a consumer. Having thought about the way AXA handled 
Miss Ss concerns I think the amount of compensation is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Indeed, if this complaint had passed across my desk without any 
compensation having already been awarded, Im unlikely to have awarded any more than 
this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman