DRN-3728076
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is about a help-to-buy (HTB) loan they have, and which is 
administered by Target Servicing Limited. They are unhappy that they are unable to make 
monthly payment to reduce the loan balance as they would a repayment mortgage.
What happened
In 2016 Mr and Mrs H took out a HTB loan to assist them to buy their home. The loan is set 
up to run alongside a mortgage and has a term of 25 years. For the first five years, no 
payments were required, and no interest was charged on the balance. After that, interest 
was charged and monthly payments to cover it had to be made by Mr and Mrs H. 
Mr and Mrs H borrowed 20% of the purchase price of the property and had to repay 20% of 
the value of the property at the time either the loan was repaid (in full or in part) or at the end 
of the 25-year term. The minimum amount that could be made as a partial payment is 10% 
of the then current value of the property. 
The Help to Buy Buyers Guide for loans such as the one that Mr and Mrs H took out states:
You cannot make regular monthly payments towards paying off the equity loan. However, 
you can pay off all of your equity loan, or make part payments, at any time.
Mr and Mrs H complained about not being able to pay the loan off as they wanted to. Target 
responded to the complaint in a letter dated 16 June 2021. It pointed out that the loan would 
have been sold to them by either the developer from which they bought their home, a HTB 
agent or their solicitor. It went on to confirm that there was no way to pay the capital by 
monthly instalments.
Mr and Mrs H werent satisfied with the response and referred their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She confirmed that we could only 
consider how Target had administered the loan, not what had happened during the sale of 
the loan, or the loan terms and conditions set by the lender. She was satisfied that Target 
had administered the loan in line with the terms and conditions and so she didnt recommend 
the complaint be upheld.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with the investigators conclusions. They said that they hadnt 
received any paperwork that explained the repayment arrangements and werent given a 
copy of the guide referred to above. They said this was the point of their complaint. 
The investigator considered Mr and Mrs Hs comments, but they didnt change her view of 
the complaint. She pointed out that the documentation Mr and Mrs H had signed at the time 
of the sale confirmed they had received the guide for buyers. Mr and Mrs H remained 
unhappy and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, Target simply administers the loan account in line with the 
terms and conditions set by the lender. As such, I cant consider the concerns Mr and Mrs H 
have about the advice they were given to take out the loan, including the description of how 
it worked or whether or not they received the documentation they should have been given, in 
this decision, as Target is not responsible for those issues. Any concerns they have about 
what they were told about the loan when it was sold to them would need to be referred to the 
agent that sold it.
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Target wont allow them to pay anything toward the capital 
balance of the loan on a monthly basis. Unfortunately for them, that isnt how an equity loan 
works. They were lent 20% of the value of the property and so have to repay 20% of the 
value of the property, but that value will change over time. As such, each time a payment is 
made, the value of the property has to be established. That simply isnt practical on a 
monthly basis and the cost of doing so would be prohibitive, especially as the cost has to be 
paid by the borrower. In light of this, the contract Mr and Mrs H signed up to requires that 
any partial payment is equal to at least 10% of the property value. 
When Mr and Mrs H asked Target to be allowed to pay more than the interest each month, 
Target explained that this wasnt possible as per the terms and conditions. I cant find that it 
was wrong or that it acted unreasonably when it did so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision 
before 2 March 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman