DRN-1643553
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr R took out the PPI in 1998 at the same time as applying for the credit card by post. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Rs application form. There is a separate section for PPI with two 
boxes that could be signed in to either accept or decline the PPI. Mr R has signed in the 
Yes box. He could have signed in the No box if he hadnt wanted the PPI. Mr R says he 
took out the PPI to increase his chances of getting the credit card. But there is nothing on 
the form to suggest that an applicant is more likely to be accepted for the credit card if they 
choose PPI.
I have no doubt that Mr R has provided his honest recollection of events. But the sale was a 
long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if his memory of the sale has faded. Overall, I 
consider that Mr R would have known from the wording and layout of the form that the PPI 
was optional. It seems to me that he decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to.
Mr R completed the form on his own at home before returned it by post. So there was no 
input from any BoS adviser. As it was a non-advised sale, BoS didnt have to ensure that the 
policy met Mr Rs needs. But it did need to provide enough information for Mr R to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him.
Mr R would have received some sick pay from his job. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to this and potentially for longer than Mr R would have received full pay for. And Mr 
R hasnt mentioned any other means, such as savings, that he could fall back on. Hes said 
that his parents would have helped. But presumably that would have been a last resort and 
other people cant always be relied upon as their circumstances can change. Based on the 
available evidence, I consider that Mr R had a need for the cover and could have benefitted 
from it at what would have been a difficult time.
BoS has only been able to provide us with a policy document that post dates the sale. 
However, the terms of such policies tended to be broadly similar in what they covered. There 
could be differences in relation to exclusions. But there is nothing about Mr Rs circumstances at the time that would lead me to conclude that he might not be able to make 
a successful claim on the policy  for instance he wasnt self employed and didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions.
I think Mr R would have known something about the PPI  that it would have covered his 
credit card payments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  
because I dont think hed have decided to take it out without knowing anything at all about it.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr R wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I think that Mr R had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused him to change his mind. So he is no worse off as 
a result of anything BoS may have done wrong, so theres nothing that BoS needs to do to 
put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman