DRN-2811005
The complaint
Mr C says Quilter Cheviot Limited (QCL) didnt actively manage his pension portfolio and 
conducted transactions that exposed his funds to exchange rate risk, which he wasnt aware 
of and which were unsuitable for him.
What happened
Mr C first met with QCL in 2012 at the office of Portal Financial Management (Portal), which 
was his independent financial adviser. The meeting notes indicate he wanted to move his 
Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) portfolio away from his then discretionary 
management arrangement because he thought his portfolio manager had neglected his 
interests and he was disappointed with investment performance.
Mr C signed an investment management application form in August 2012. He had three 
options in terms of service provision: a discretionary management service (DMS); an 
advisory management service; or an execution only service. He chose a DMS.
The assets held in his Deutsche Bank portfolio were transferred in-specie to the portfolio 
managed by QCL. A notional portfolio document was produced, setting out details of the 
investments to be held based on his objectives and risk profile. The defensive model 
portfolio recommended included a 21% allocation to UK equities, 13% allocation to overseas 
equities and 16.5% allocation to alternative investments.
In February 2016 Mr C began to raise concerns about market volatility. He indicated to 
Portal he felt he had experienced market drops, but not the subsequent recoveries. A 
meeting was arranged between Mr C, Portal and QCL to discuss the situation. One outcome 
was an agreement to reduce his portfolios exposure to equites from 46% to around 38%, 
with a corresponding increase in cash and property holdings.
In July 2016 Portal contacted QCL informing it that Mr C continued to have concerns about 
market volatility and had decided to fully liquidate the equity portion of his portfolio, retaining 
the fixed interest and alternative investments. A letter of authority was received the same 
day instructing the sale of all equity holdings. The proceeds increased the cash exposure of 
the portfolio to 43%.
On 19 October 2018 Portal sent a letter to QCL, informing it of Mr Cs intention to liquidate 
all assets held within his portfolio. The instruction to liquidate was received in an email on 7 
February 2019. Sell instructions were placed for all assets, except his Deutsche Bank Sicav 
Absolute Diversified Fund.
On 13 February 2019 Portal asked for an update on the progress of the sales. In response 
they were advised funds of around £927,000 had settled. Portal responded with concerns 
this figure was about £10,000 lower than the values quoted when the sales were instructed. 
QCL responded with a breakdown of the factors accounting for the difference in values.
Mr C complained to QCL in September 2019 saying he was unhappy with the way his 
investments had overseen, specifically a lack of active management. He also noted some 
investments had exposed him to exchange rate risk and this hadnt been disclosed. He said 
this had resulted in a financial loss.
QCL issued its final response on November 2019. In summary it said:
Having investigated your complaint and based on the information available I am unable to 
uphold your complaint. My investigation has identified that [our fund manager] has actively 
managed your funds and the performance of your portfolio was affected by a number of 
decisions made by you to have the equity proportion of your portfolio liquidated and 
reinvested in a piecemeal fashion. You have argued that the non-GBP denominated 
investments within the portfolio would not have been suitable for your low to medium risk 
profile but this forms part of our defensive models in order to achieve a degree of 
diversification and your concerns with such exposure is something you or Portal could have 
raised with Nigel during the course of your investment with QC
The Investigator considered Mr Cs case and didnt uphold it. He disagreed and so his 
complaint has been passed to me for review and to provide a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wheres theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, 
my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
I agree with the main findings and conclusions of the Investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. It follows that Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. Theres little value in repeating 
his view verbatim, so Ill summarise why Ive reached the decision I have.
Its useful to set out initially the respective roles of Portal, Mr Cs financial adviser, and QCL, 
his portfolio fund manager.
Portals role was to establish Mr Cs needs and objectives, assess his financial situation and 
attitude to risk, and make suitable recommendations based on that assessment. In relation 
to his retirement plans, it found Mr C had a low to medium attitude to risk and an objective of 
capital growth and income. It also identified QCLs DMS as a suitable arrangement to 
manage his funds.
QCLs role was to manage a portfolio of investments which has been designed to achieve Mr 
Cs objectives, while maintaining the agreed risk exposure. It had to do this by adhering to a 
mandate it had agreed with Mr C and the trustees of his pensions.
Ill now address Mr Cs three main complaint points.
A failure by QCL to actively manage his pension portfolioMr C says there was a lack of active management of his funds in the final few years with 
QCL. The Investigator considered the evidence of the interaction between the parties over 
the period in question. He helpfully summarised some of the communications:
2013-15 letter to Mr C setting out the proactive action it was taking in response to 
market conditions.
22/02/2016 email from Portal to QCL expressing Mr Cs view he was experiencing market 
falls but not the recovery of value.
22/02/2016 QCL respond with full explanation and proposal to meet.
07/03/2016 review between Mr C, Portal and QCL. Agreement reached to reduce equity 
holding to around 38%.
10/03/2016 letter from QCL to Mr C summarising the review meeting.
11/07/2016 email from Portal indicating Mr C wanted to sell all equities.
15/07/2016 confirmation to Mr C that all equities had been sold.
Sept 2016 Mr C agrees to gradually reintroduce exposure to equities
04/10/2017 QCL email to Portal  discussing reinvesting when the opportunity presents 
itself 
cash levels remain highbut a chunk of this remains earmarked to rebuild the equity 
content which I continue to arrange gradually and will do so more progressively if weakness 
in markets materialises.
05/12/2017 confirmation of change in Mr Cs risk profile to low  3-year time horizon.
18/12/2017 Portal instruction to withdraw £150k from Mr Cs investments to cash.
19/10/2018 QCL receive notice of Mr Cs intention to fully liquidate when Portal gives 
notice.
Feb 2019 QCL acts on Portal instruction to fully liquidate Mr Cs portfolio.
Id observe there appears to have been a reasonable level of liaison between Portal and 
QCL. Thats what I would expect because it would be important that any changes in Mr Cs 
circumstances, objectives and risk appetite needed to be effectively communicated between 
the parties.
I think the pattern here indicates QCL were actively managing Mr Cs portfolio, within the 
constraints he was setting. Much of the later activity was driven by his instructions, to which 
it was responsive.
From February 2016, there was a move to reduce Mr Cs equity exposure, and by July 2016 
to fully exit all these holdings. As he was left with cash and other more stable assets, the 
scope for active management was necessarily reduced. From September 2016 Mr C agreed 
to move back into equities. And we can see from communications, QCL were seeking to 
reintroduce them, but were trying to time acquisitions favourably.
By early December 2017 Mr C had agreed a reduced risk appetite and a 3-year investment 
horizon, which wouldve made equity investments trickier. Thats because holdings are 
intended for the medium to long term. Mr Cs risk on/risk off decisions inhibited QCLs ability 
to make long term investment decisions. And once an indication of the intention to fully 
liquidate was given in October 2018 it wouldve been difficult for it to justify placing any funds 
at risk.I agree with the Investigator when he concluded:
The decisions to initially reduce and subsequently liquidate [Mr Cs] positions in equities, 
during a period of high volatility, limited QCLs ability to manage the portfolio in the normal 
way. Any risk asset moved to cash during a downturn is at risk of not participating in any 
subsequent recovery. Its likely this contributed to [his] perception that the portfolio was 
being managed ineffectively.
Undisclosed exposure of Mr Cs portfolio to exchange rate fluctuations which were 
inappropriate for his risk appetite
The DMS was described to Mr C in summary at the front of his application as follows:
[DMS] is where the trustees/directors give [QCL] authority to manage the SIPP investments 
by exercising our discretion based on the information contained in this document and subject 
to any limitations the trustees/directors or member may impose.
There were some specific instructions given to QCL about managing Mr Cs pension 
portfolio. It wasnt to invest in the Off-Exchange, unquoted equities or unregulated products. 
All stock had to be held on recognised exchanges. And his funds werent to be involved in 
underwriting. These restrictions applied unless prior agreement with the trustees was 
provided. Mr C chose not to add to these restrictions.
Mr C noted on the application hed been in a discretionary portfolio since 2004 and had held 
investments for 20 years. His objective was to grow his capital over a 3 to 5 year time 
horizon. And he expected to retire in the following 5-10 years. Mr Cs risk tolerance was 
recorded as low to medium which meant he accepted equity exposure in the range of 25 to 
50% of the value of his portfolio.
The risk appendix which accompanied Mr Cs application specifically states:
currency movements can impact positively on investments, but they can also have a 
serious negative effect. Fluctuations in exchange rates may impact the value of, and the 
income derived from, investments. Profits can also be eroded by a fall in the value of a 
particular currency. 
While it was appropriate for QCL to have disclosed this risk, it was Portals responsibility to 
ensure Mr C understood any risks associated with the service it had recommended.
Mr C has told this Service he specifically wanted to exclude assets priced in overseas 
currency from his portfolio, having had a poor experience with his previous asset manager. 
But theres no evidence this requirement was communicated to QCL at the outset or at any 
point subsequently. Had it been, Ive no reason to think it wouldnt have acted accordingly.
Further, information contemporaneous with the events complained about, such as the 
application form, portfolio statements and meeting notes, suggest Mr C and his adviser 
should reasonably have been aware of his exposure to exchange rate risks.
In managing funds, its possible to offset higher risk against lower risk investments in order 
to achieve a balanced portfolio. This approach enables a fund manager to bring diversity to 
a portfolio, which is an important safeguard against volatility in one particular asset type or 
market. Different markets in different parts of the world dont always move in the same 
direction, so it can be appropriate for a medium or even a low risk portfolio to have some 
exposure to overseas investments.Ive thought about whether the exposure of part of Mr Cs portfolio to overseas investments 
was appropriate given his low to medium risk appetite. I dont think his exposure to some 
currency risk within his overall portfolio was unsuitable.
Finally, I note Mr C expressed concerns in his original complaint to QCL about his Deutsche 
Bank Sicav Absolute Diversified Fund, as it was showing a value of £600 on his statements, 
but this did not reflect its actual value. It had been in liquidation for several years and was 
difficult to accurately value. I have nothing to add to the Investigators findings when he said:
Ultimately, QCL must base its valuation on information received from third parties and 
cannot be held responsible for any inaccuracies. In any case I cant see the overvaluation of 
this asset has led to any material detriment.
Having reviewed the available evidence and arguments about Mr Cs case, I think Quilter 
Cheviot Limited has acted fairly and reasonably. It follows that I dont require it to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman