DRN-1975125
The complaint
Miss J has complained about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2001 in connection with a catalogue shopping account.
What happened
This complaint was considered by our adjudicator, who explained that we have no power to 
look at this complaint as Grattan wasnt regulated at the time of sale.
Miss J disagrees with the adjudicators view so the case has come to me to make a 
jurisdiction decision.
My decision will only be considering whether we have the power to look at Miss Js case. I 
wont be looking at whether or not the complaint should be upheld.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can only consider a complaint if it falls within certain criteria laid down in our case-handling
rules, which are found in the DISP section of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook
(available online).
The event that Miss J has complained about is insurance intermediation, that is, the 
marketing, advising and selling of insurance, etc. This did not become a regulated activity 
until 14 January 2005. 
This sale took place in 2001 and Grattan was not subject to our compulsory jurisdiction at 
this time. 
The rules do allow me to consider some complaints about the sale of insurance
before January 2005 where the business was subject to a former scheme at the relevant
time. But Grattan was not a member of any of these schemes at the time the policy was sold 
(and it did not need to be because they were mostly voluntary). So it follows that I cannot 
consider this complaint against Grattan.
I can only consider complaints which fall within my jurisdiction under the case-handling rules
which I must apply. Therefore this service cannot look into Miss Js complaint.
I know Miss J will be disappointed that Im reaching this conclusion. Im sorry we cant help 
her on this occasion.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Grattan has given me information that shows that Miss J did not make any payments for PPI 
on her catalogue shopping account  after April 2007. So based on what Ive said above, I 
dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court 
judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of 
commission apply here.
So Grattan doesnt need to refund any of the commission Miss J paid for the PPI she had 
with her catalogue shopping account.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I dont have any power to help with Miss Js 
complaint about her PPI policy because it does not fall within my jurisdiction.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman