DRN-3091673
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs B complain about how Mortgage Express (ME) has dealt with their buy-to-let 
mortgages. They say it stole a number of properties by taking possession without a court 
order, and then sold the properties for less than they were worth. They also say they have 
been charged around £1,000 for each letter solicitors acting on MEs behalf have sent to 
them. 
What happened
Mr K and Mrs B have a portfolio of buy-to-let properties, many of which are mortgaged to 
ME. After some of the ME mortgages came to the end of their terms in around 2015 and Mr 
K and Mrs B didnt repay the mortgages, ME appointed receivers under the Law of Property 
Act to deal with the properties. 
The properties were sold, but the proceeds werent enough to repay the mortgages. Mr K 
and Mrs B were left with a shortfall of around £400,000. They complained to ME, and later to 
the Financial Ombudsman, about MEs handling of their mortgages. Amongst other things, 
they said ME had taken possession and sold their properties illegally, and the sales hadnt 
been carried out appropriately.
In September 2019, an ombudsman here issued a final decision on Mr Ks and Mrs Bs 
complaint. She didnt uphold it.
In early 2021, Mr K and Mrs B complained again about the repossessions, sales, and the 
shortfall they had been left with. They also complained about the cost of the letters they were 
receiving. 
ME said it, and the Financial Ombudsman, had already looked at most of the points Mr K 
and Mrs B were complaining about. But it said they werent being charged for the letters its 
solicitors were sending; the letters were simply to inform Mr K and Mrs B of legal costs which 
were being added to their debt.
Our investigator agreed with ME. He said we wouldnt reconsider a complaint about which 
an ombudsman had already made a decision. He considered the letters Mr K and Mrs B 
were unhappy with, alongside invoices provided by ME, and was satisfied that the letters 
were notifying Mr K and Mrs B of costs which ME had incurred and which were being passed 
on to them, in line with the mortgage terms.
Mr K and Mrs B didnt accept that, so the complaint has come to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn that Mr K and Mrs B have been unwell, and that Mr K in particular has 
had a number of health difficulties. I recognise that this will have made dealing with their 
complaint more challenging than it would otherwise have been. Nonetheless, we cant put 
complaints on hold indefinitely, and Im satisfied that I have enough information to make a 
fair decision in this case.
First of all, I agree with our investigator that its not appropriate for me to reconsider 
complaints which another ombudsman has already considered. The rules which the 
Financial Ombudsman applies to every case provide for me to dismiss a complaint without 
further consideration in these circumstances. 
The relevant rules are the Dispute Resolution rules (known as DISP), and are set out in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook, which is available online. DISP 3.3.4A says I may 
dismiss a complaint without further consideration where: 
dealing with such a type of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the effective
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
DISP 3.3.4B sets out examples of the types of complaint that would seriously impair our 
effective operation. One of these is:
where the subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or excluded
under the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless material new evidence which the
Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently become available to
the complainant).
Im satisfied that Mr Ks and Mrs Bs complaint about MEs repossession and sale of their 
properties, leaving them with a significant shortfall, is the same complaint we considered in 
2019. Mr and Mrs B have also mentioned the original property valuations which, again, my 
ombudsman colleague considered in 2019. I find nothing to indicate that Mr K and Mrs B 
have evidence which wasnt available to them in 2019 and which would be material to the 
outcome. While they may not have been happy with my ombudsman colleagues decision, 
that isnt grounds for me to reconsider the matter now. The 2019 decision was final.
Mr Ks and Mrs Bs complaint about the letters they have received from solicitors acting for 
ME and setting out various charges is a matter it is appropriate for me to consider. However, 
having done so, I dont find that ME has done anything wrong. It hasnt charged Mr K and 
Mrs B for these letters. The letters were sent to tell Mr K and Mrs B about legal costs which 
were being added to their debt, in connection with recovery of the shortfall debt. The 
mortgage terms provide for that, and Ive seen copies of invoices from MEs solicitors which 
reflect the charges in the letters, and which show the legal work that was done. There is no 
basis on which I can fairly tell ME to refund these charges. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman