DRN-2763921
The complaint
Mr M complains that Parmenion Capital Partners LLPs processes and actions delayed the 
transfer of his ISA from his previous provider, Aberdeen, and that this resulted in a 
significant fall in its value  in 2020.
What happened
Mr M received a pamphlet from Aberdeen saying he would no longer be able to use its 
online services due to a centralisation exercise but its sister business Parmenion could 
facilitate this and so could transfer his ISA to it.
Mr M admitted he was totally confused by the pamphlet and didnt know what Aberdeen
wanted him to do. He thought this was an instruction to transfer his ISA and that he didnt
have any choice given the following paragraph:
Transfer your account to Parmenion to maintain online trading. 'As a valued client who
currently utilises this service, we wanted to invite you to transfer your account to Parmenion
in order to maintain access to online trading and save money at the same time.
He said he felt backed into a corner and had no other options available; having a deadline in
place caused further worry.
Believing he had no choice, he signed to agree to the transfer but there were several delays 
which caused him a loss.
An investigator at this service dealt separately with his complaints about both businesses. 
This complaint solely concerns whether Parmenion did something wrong. In her view, this 
complaint did not warrant being upheld. She said:
Parmenion advise that the request was received on 1 April at 11:30. The terms and 
conditions state: We will use reasonable endeavours to ensure withdrawal requests 
received before the close of business on a Working Day are actioned within 24 hours 
of an acceptable instruction being received, but do not guarantee that the timescales 
will always be typically be issued to you within 6-8 Working Days of your request 
being received.
Parmenion admits that the trades were intended to be placed on 2 April 2020, in line 
with their terms and conditions, but due to an oversight one of the trades wasnt 
placed until 3 April 2020. It reviewed the calculations and found that due to the delay 
there had been a gain of £15.27 to the value of the investment
She was satisfied that this calculation was right, demonstrating that the delay didnt 
cause any detriment to Mr M. She also noted that the withdrawal was completed by 9 
April 2020, within the timescales given in the terms and conditions
Mr M said he wasnt aware of the details of the Parmenion investment and asked 
several times about this but hadnt received anything from it. However, Parmenion 
confirmed that as part of the online transfer process clients have to read a 
confirmation page which lists nine important points, including cancellation rights 
within 14 days of the transfer. At the end of the page the client has to click to confirm 
they have read the My Investments Key Features Document and Client Terms
This suggests Parmenion gave Mr M access to all the information required and that 
the transfer couldnt have proceeded unless the above box was ticked and accepted
Mr M said he was under the impression that he couldnt sell his account without 
selling his wifes at the same time but she said there was no indication that Mr M tried 
to sell his investment before 1 April 2020
As such, it was the timing of the withdrawal of the funds, at the start of the pandemic, 
which impacted the value of Mr Ms investment; not a mistake of Parmenions making
Mr M and his daughter disagreed with the investigator, jointly saying: 
Can you please show us where you have responded, to the numerous regulatory 
breaches, rules and points we raised, in our previous correspondence?
If Aberdeen and Parmenion had carried out due diligence, this situation would not 
have occurred. Remember, during this crash, through no fault of our own, we were 
not able to sell
The regulator requires businesses to act with Skill, care and diligence including due 
diligence testing of their systems to ensure they are capable of dealing with the 
transfers/merger, and no client will be disadvantaged
As this is a regulatory requirement, they would like a copy of the scripts, which would 
have been used by the Aberdeen and Parmenion project/testing teams, prior to the 
merger
They would also like to know what criteria was used for testing, e.g., name, address, 
national insurance number, email address, etc.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons.
Its firstly important to explain that my role is to decide if there is sufficient, persuasive
evidence to safely conclude that a business did something wrong; not merely whether it
might have done things differently.
In this context, I dont agree with Mr Ms interpretation of Parmenions regulatory 
responsibility when agreeing to accept transfers from Aberdeen. From what Ive read, it 
offered a clear and transparent option to do this and adhered to its own terms and 
conditions. It wasnt required to offer the same service as Aberdeen, such as allowing 
married couples to use the same email address; overall, it was fully entitled to set its own 
terms and conditions.
I am also satisfied that Mr M did not suffer a financial loss as a result of the very short delay 
due to Parmenion, and that this delay did not result in it exceeding its declared timescale 
commitments. 
Finally, I should explain that my role, and that of this service, is to provide an informal
resolution service, assessing all the evidence and considering all the possible grounds forupholding a complaint. It is not, however, necessary for an investigator or ombudsman to
address every single point raised by a complainant or business, merely to explain the
grounds on which they have reached his or her overall decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman