DRN-2386528
The complaint
Mr N and Ms N are unhappy with the quality of repairs to their property, following an escape 
of water (EOW) claim on their home insurance policy with UK Insurance Limited (UKI).  
What happened
On 25 September 2017 Mr N discovered his whole flat flooded with approximately 6 inches 
of water. UKIs loss adjusters attended and arranged the drying of the property and the 
reinstatement work.  Subcontractors carried out the repairs which they felt were completed in 
June 2018. Mr N had queries regarding some of the repairs but there was no agreement 
about these with UKIs agents.
Mr N complained to UKI, but UKI felt that the issues Mr N had raised had already been 
addressed. UKI felt that there was no evidence that the subcontractors had broken anything 
and didnt agree they should provide replacements. UKI also said that there were pre-
existing imperfections to the walls in the property which meant that the finished look of the 
re-decoration wouldnt be perfect. UKI did however offer to pay for the replacement tap. Mr N 
didnt agree with UKI so he and Ms N brought their claim to this service.
In his initial view, our investigator partially upheld Mr Ns complaint. He felt UKIs offer for 
the tap fitting was fair. But said UKI hadnt provided enough evidence that the snagging 
issues had been addressed. Our investigator said that from the photos hed seen of the 
wallpaper in the living room, it hadnt been applied properly as it showed imperfections. He 
thought UKI should arrange for this this work to be rectified. He made the same point about 
the decoration in bedroom two and the bathroom.
Our investigator also said UKI should reinstate the wardrobe in bedroom two and replace the 
bathroom cabinet. But he didnt uphold Mr N and Ms Ns complaint for a replacement light 
fitting or curtain poles as he felt there was no evidence showing the subcontractors were 
responsible. 
Our investigator did uphold Mr N and Ms Ns request for repayment for incurred costs for a 
light switch replacement and for cleaning costs. He said UKI should reimburse this if 
evidence of an invoice is provided.
Mr N said that the ceiling in the kitchen and hallway didnt have lumps in them prior to the 
EOW and asked if these would be addressed. He asked again for the broken light to be 
replaced, as he said hed provided photographic evidence that it was broken. He also 
mentioned a damaged double plug socket behind the fridge. Mr N said that he cant find 
receipts for the cleaning, tap or light switch. But that he hoped a nominal amount could be 
paid to him to reflect his expense.
Our investigator sent another view saying that it wasnt fair to ask UKI to pay for cleaning 
costs as it had cleaned as agreed, or the tap and light switch, without any evidence of 
payment. But he felt UKI should replace a plug socket in an area affected by the EOW.
UKI agreed to cover the following work:
- Reinstatement of plug socket behind freezer
- Redecoration of living room wall paper
- Poor paint work in bedroom 2
- Poor paint work in the bathroom
- Reinstatement of the wardrobe
- Replacement bathroom cabinet 
UKI requested that Mr N get estimates for the works required. 
Mr N asked us to consider the state of the ceilings at his property. He said some issues 
hadnt been investigated and requested an Ombudsman review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to comment on every point Mr N made, although I have read everything both 
he and UKI sent us. Instead Ill focus on the key issues he raised.
The loss adjusters preliminary report, states: 
All rooms have been damaged which include the lounge, kitchen, two bedrooms, 
bathroom and entrance hall. And further; Ceiling and wall lining paper and wall paper 
have been damaged and will require stripping, re-lining and re-painting.
The kitchen ceiling is mentioned again in an e-mail from the Loss Adjuster to Mr N: I 
mentioned the crack to the kitchen ceiling and one of the contractors advised they would 
remedy this.
I havent found the quality of the ceiling decoration being mentioned by any party. Mr N didnt 
mention the ceiling decoration in his complaint to UKI, or to this service. So I think that the 
ceilings have been decorated. Ive seen the photos Mr N has provided showing light cracking 
in the ceiling. But I cant say that this was caused by poor workmanship by the contractors. I 
appreciate this will disappoint Mr N and Ms N, but I havent seen evidence that UKI didnt do 
what it said it would do for the ceilings. Our investigator may have suggested reinstatement 
of the ceilings, but I think Ive reached a fair outcome on this.
Mr N has also asked me to revisit our investigators view on the following items:
- Broken curtain poles  Mr N says these should be replaced
- Wardrobe in bedroom  Mr N says these should be replaced, not rebuilt
- Broken light in bedroom  Mr N says this should be replaced
- Light switch in bedroom  Mr N says he should be paid back for the cost of repair
- Damaged light in bedroom 1  Mr N says this should be replaced
I dont uphold Mr N and Ms Ns claim for replacement curtain poles or the lights as Ive not 
seen any evidence that the subcontractors broke these. 
For the wardrobe, the subcontractors said As you know they need to be removed to enable 
the remaining flooring to be installed
We are programmed to install the flooring on Friday.  Please confirm you are happy for them 
to be dismantled and cleared from site.Our investigator said that UKI should arrange for the wardrobe to be reinstalled as it was 
prior to the claim. I agree that this should be attempted. However, if this isnt possible, given 
the above, UKI should replace the wardrobe.
For the bedroom light switch, Mr N has said he cant provide an invoice. So I dont think its 
fair to ask UKI to pay for this. For the damaged light in bedroom 1, Mr N cant provide 
evidence of its pre-claim state. So I dont think its fair to ask UKI to pay for this.
This claim has been a very long and stressful one. I hope that Mr N and Ms N can now 
complete the works UKI has said it will pay for and move on. 
My final decision
  For the reasons given above Im partially upholding Mr N and Ms Ns complaint. 
UK Insurance Limited should pay for the following, as per their offer to this service:
- Reinstatement of plug socket behind freezer
- Redecoration of living room wall paper
- Poor paint work in bedroom 2
- Poor paint work in the bathroom
- Reinstatement of the wardrobe
- Replacement bathroom cabinet 
If the existing wardrobe cant be reinstated, UKI should pay for a replacement wardrobe of 
similar quality.
Mr N and Ms N will have to arrange their own builder to carry these jobs out and should 
retain all invoices so that UKI can pay them back
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Joanne Occleshaw
Ombudsman