DRN-4070234
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited retained a charge 
over their property even though theyd paid off their mortgage. And they complain that 
getting the charge removed was a complex and protracted process and that L&G hasnt 
responded to their complaints appropriately.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with L&G many years ago. In 2002 the mortgage was 
transferred to the then Northern Rock bank, which became NRAM following its collapse 
during the financial crisis.
Mr and Mrs D paid off their mortgage in 2008. In 2022, following discussions with a 
neighbour about access rights, Mr and Mrs D discovered that the charge over their property 
securing the mortgage had never been removed. 
Mr and Mrs D contacted both NRAM as the final owner of their mortgage, and L&G as the 
original lender and the firm in whose name the charge still appeared at the Land Registry. 
NRAM was unable to find any record of their mortgage. Mr and Mrs D pursued matters with 
L&G, as the charge was still in its name. Eventually, after several months and a great deal of 
correspondence, the charge was removed from their property.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy about the time taken to remove the charge, as well as the 
inconvenience theyd been put to and the delays. They were also unhappy that senior 
personnel at L&G, including its chief executive, hadnt replied to their correspondence or 
taken ownership of resolving their concerns. 
L&G said that it had transferred ownership of Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage, among others, to 
Northern Rock. NRAM should have discharged the charge when the mortgage was repaid. 
Although the charge over Mr and Mrs Ds property remained in L&Gs name, ownership of it 
was transferred along with the mortgage and Northern Rock  later NRAM  had the power 
to discharge it. L&G said that although the charge remained in its name it couldnt remove it 
itself since it was used to secure a debt with NRAM. It needed NRAM to confirm it was no 
longer owed any money and could remove the charge. 
L&G said that it tried several times over a long period to contact NRAM to try and get the 
charge removed, but without success. It said that in the end it had taken the decision to 
apply to the Land Registry to remove the charge itself. Even though it related to a mortgage 
it no longer owned, it was prepared to take the risk of doing so in the absence of contact 
from NRAM to try to resolve matters for Mr and Mrs D. It offered Mr and Mrs D £150 
compensation for the delays theyd experienced. 
Mr and Mrs D werent happy with that, and referred their complaint to us. They said that as 
well as their own inconvenience, the problem had prevented their neighbours re-mortgaging 
or carrying out building work. They said compensation of £2,000 and a personal apology 
from L&Gs chief executive would be more appropriate.
Our investigator thought L&G had acted fairly, so Mr and Mrs D asked for their complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D have provided us with a great deal of information, all of which Ive carefully 
considered. I havent set out a full detailed timeline or explanation of everything that has 
happened, but I have taken it all into account.
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage was an interest only mortgage, supported by an endowment also 
provided by L&G. When L&G stopped providing mortgages it sold this part of its business to 
Northern Rock. Northern Rock took over as the owner of Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage (though it 
still continued to be referred to as a Legal & General mortgage, rather than being integrated 
into Northern Rocks wider mortgage lending business). Separately, L&G retained ownership 
of Mr and Mrs Ds endowment policy.
When the endowment matured in 2008, L&G paid it to Northern Rock. It was sufficient to 
clear their mortgage with a surplus, and so Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage was paid off at that 
point. 
Northern Rock should then have removed the charge over their property, as is standard 
practice for the redemption of mortgages. For whatever reason, however, it didnt do so  I 
dont know why that was, as Northern Rock isnt a party to this complaint. But the fact is that 
it didnt.
When the mortgage was transferred in 2002, the charge over Mr and Mrs Ds property 
should have been amended to a charge in favour of Northern Rock. Again, this didnt 
happen. But that wouldnt have prevented Northern Rock removing the charge in 2008, since 
as part of the mortgage transfer it had the power to remove charges associated with the 
mortgages it now owned.
It therefore seems clear to me that the initial fault here lay with Northern Rock in not 
removing the charge. By 2008 L&G didnt own the mortgage and wasnt responsible for the 
charge over Mr and Mrs Ds property securing it. It couldnt remove the charge itself at that 
time since it no longer owned the mortgage and had no way of knowing it had been repaid. 
Even though it had paid out on the endowment, it couldnt know whether or not that would be 
enough  Mr and Mrs D might have taken further borrowing in the meantime, for example. 
Removing the charge over a property at the end of a mortgage term is the responsibility of 
the lender who owns the mortgage at that point.
Nothing then happened for some years. In 2021 or 2022, Mr and Mrs Ds neighbours 
decided to begin a building project. Because the project involved an impact on a part of their 
land to which Mr and Mrs D had access rights, the project involved legal amendments to the 
title to both properties  at which point the outstanding charge over Mr and Mrs Ds property 
came to light. It seems Mr and Mrs Ds neighbours project couldnt go ahead because of 
difficulties amending the title of the properties while the charge was still in place  and this 
caused Mr and Mrs D substantial upset and embarrassment in their wishes to retain good 
neighbourly relations, as well as expense and inconvenience to their neighbours.
Mr and Mrs D have said they were concerned the continued existence of the charge meant 
they didnt own their property. To reassure them, it doesnt mean that  Mr and Mrs D are 
and always were the registered owners. A charge doesnt change the ownership, it just gives the charge holder the right to have its loan repaid out of the proceeds of any sale.
Once the problem with the charge came to light, Mr and Mrs D contacted NRAM as their 
former mortgage lender to try and get it removed. This wasnt successful; it seems NRAM 
couldnt track down any records of their mortgage and matters were confused by the charge 
never having been amended into the name of Northern Rock.
When they werent able to get anywhere with NRAM, Mr and Mrs D contacted L&G as their 
original mortgage lender and as the company in whose name the charge was still registered. 
L&G said that it wasnt responsible for the charge any longer, and it would have to be 
removed by NRAM. It tried to contact NRAM itself to get it to remove the charge, again 
without success.
Eventually, seeing the distress and concern the continued existence of the charge was 
causing Mr and Mrs D, L&G thought about whether it could remove the charge itself. It could 
make an application to the Land Registry as the charge was still in its name. But the charge 
was used to secure a debt it no longer owned and it had contractual responsibilities to 
NRAM as a result of the transfer of the mortgage. So there was a risk to L&G if it removed 
the charge without being sure NRAM no longer needed it.
Having looked into this and noted that the endowment had matured and been paid out, and 
having seen evidence provided by Mr and Mrs D that the mortgage had been paid off in full 
in 2008, L&G decided that there was in fact little risk in it making an application to the Land 
Registry to remove the charge. It did so, and the charge was removed in late 2022.
Ive thought about everything that happened very carefully. Im satisfied that L&G was no 
longer the owner of Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage or of the charge over their property. It was 
NRAMs responsibility to remove it, not L&Gs. I cant hold L&G responsible for any failings 
on NRAMs part.
Mr and Mrs D say that L&G should be responsible, because the fact these problems arose 
show that it failed to carry out due diligence and properly satisfy itself that Northern Rock 
was an appropriate firm to transfer their mortgage to. But I dont agree about that. This 
problem couldnt have been foreseen at the time of the transfer. Its impossible to entirely 
eliminate mistakes and failings at any regulated firm and while its very unfortunate for the 
individual customer affected  in this case Mr and Mrs D  I dont think any later failings by 
Northern Rock or NRAM in respect of their mortgage mean it was unfair that L&G transferred 
it in 2002.
And for the same reasons, I think it was reasonable that, when Mr and Mrs D contacted 
L&G, it explained this to them. It told them, rightly, that it was no longer responsible for the 
mortgage or the charge and that they would need to contact NRAM. When it was clear that 
Mr and Mrs D were not having any success with NRAM, L&G first tried to contact NRAM on 
their behalf, and then agreed to remove the charge itself.
In doing those things, L&G went beyond what it was required to do. This was not its 
mortgage and not its charge. It could simply have told Mr and Mrs D that they would need to 
take matters up with NRAM and left it there. But it didnt do that; it took further steps to help 
them. In the end, even though it no longer owned the charge and was therefore taking some 
risk in doing so, it applied to the Land Registry to have it removed.
This wasnt a problem of L&Gs making, and it wasnt L&Gs responsibility to solve it. In  
despite that  taking steps to help Mr and Mrs D, and eventually resolving the problem for 
them, it went above and beyond what was required of it.I appreciate Mr and Mrs D found their experience of dealing with L&G frustrating. I think that 
was in part because they were expecting L&G to resolve their situation even though  as Ive 
explained  it wasnt L&Gs responsibility to do so. And when, having got nowhere with 
NRAM, L&G did decide to do what it could to help, doing so took some time. There was 
some risk in removing a charge it no longer owned, for example, so it needed to satisfy itself 
it was willing to take that risk. And it needed to be sure the mortgage had been paid off even 
though it hadnt been able to get NRAM to confirm that.
I think its also fair to say that Mr and Mrs D had high expectations of what L&G ought to do 
to assist them. This isnt a matter I would generally expect a firms chief executive to 
personally resolve, for example. It was reasonable for L&G to try to contact NRAM before 
taking action itself and reasonable to wait for a response, and its not always possible to 
reply to emails immediately. So while L&G disappointed Mr and Mrs Ds expectations I dont 
think that means it acted unfairly or unreasonably in all the circumstances. 
Having said that, there were some occasions where L&G didnt respond to Mr and Mrs D as 
quickly as it might have done. Its offered them £150 compensation for that. Having looked at 
everything, and having noted that L&G was going out of its way to help them even though 
their situation was not its responsibility, Im satisfied thats a fair and reasonable offer in all 
the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im satisfied Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has 
made a fair and reasonable offer to resolve this complaint and I dont require it to take any 
further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman