DRN-2738097
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the service that she has received from TSB Bank plc since making
them aware that she suffers with a chronic medical condition. Miss M is also unhappy that
her accounts were passed to external debt collection agencies.  
What happened
Ms M took out two personal loans with TSB in 2018. In 2019, Ms M fell into financial difficulty
as a result of being signed off from work for medical reasons. Ms M was later diagnosed with
a chronic condition and has been unable to work since 2019 because of this.
Ms M contacted TSB and initially agreed to a payment plan of £50 per month for each of the
two loans. However, Ms M received conflicting information from TSB about the nature of this
payment plan. TSB then sent default notices to Ms M for both loans and subsequently
charged off both accounts.
In February 2020, Ms Ms accounts were passed to external debt collection agencies by
TSB. Ms M wasnt happy about this, or about the way that TSB had handled her accounts
after being notified of her medical condition, so she made a complaint.
TSB looked at Ms Ms complaint. They agreed to recall the accounts from the debt collection
agencies and made a payment to Ms M of £25 by way of an apology. Ms M didnt feel that
TSBs response went far enough, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that TSB hadnt taken account of
Ms Ms medical issues when she had first made TSB aware of them and that TSB should
have done more to assist Ms M. Our investigator also felt that TSB shouldnt have sent Ms
Ms accounts to any debt collection agencies. So, they upheld Ms Ms complaint and
recommended that TSB make a payment of £500 to Ms M as compensation for the distress
and inconvenience she had incurred.
TSB didnt agree with the view put forward by our investigator. They felt that they had treated
Ms M positively and sympathetically and had worked with her to find a repayment solution
that was best for her. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 March 2021 as follows:
Its only natural to sympathise with Ms M here and with the difficult situation that she 
finds herself in. And I realise the significant effect that the chronic condition she 
suffers with must have on her everyday life.
However, my role here is to decide whether I feel that TSB have treated Ms M 
unreasonably or unfairly in how theyve managed her accounts, given the overall 
circumstances of this complaint.
When a customer tells a business that they are experiencing financial difficulty, what 
this service would expect is that the business listens to the customer and treats them
sympathetically and positively moving forwards. And I think, to a large degree, TSB 
have done that here.
I say this because TSB did speak with Ms M to get a better understanding of her 
personal and financial circumstances. And they did agree a short term payment plan 
of £50 a month for each account to provide Ms M with some time to see if there was 
a way that she could continue to meet the contractual terms of the two loans, or to 
propose payment plans that would be acceptable to TSB moving forwards.
And when it became apparent to TSB that Ms M wouldnt be able to afford payment 
plans on the accounts that would be acceptable to them, it was reasonable that TSB 
then terminated the contractual terms of the loans and moved them to their 
recoveries department. Because removing the restrictions of the contractual terms 
meant that arrears charges and fees no longer needed to be applied and provided 
more flexibility with regard to the arrangements that could then be made between Ms 
M and TSB to pay off the outstanding balances.
I understand that Ms M would like for these accounts to not be adversely affecting 
her credit file, but in instances where its not been possible for a customer to meet 
the repayment terms of a loan, such as is the case here, it is appropriate that this be 
reported as such on that persons credit file. So, while I do sympathise with the 
position that Ms M finds herself in and wholly understand why Ms M hasnt been able 
to meet the repayments, her circumstances here dont supersede the obligation TSB 
have to make accurate reports to the credit reference agencies about these loans. 
So, I cant fairly censure TSB for doing this.
I also understand Ms Ms displeasure at finding that her accounts had been passed 
to debt collection agencies by TSB. Being contacted by a debt collection agency can 
be an emotive event, but there can be advantages for a customer in having their 
accounts placed with such agencies. For instance, debt collection agencies often 
have a greater degree of freedom in regard to the level of monthly repayment that 
they can accept.
Because of this, I dont feel that it was necessarily inappropriate that TSB should 
have passed Ms Ms accounts to debt collection agencies. But given the difficult 
personal circumstances that Ms M was facing here I do feel that TSB could have 
provided Ms M with some advance explanation that such a transfer was scheduled to 
take place and the reasons behind it. And I do note that TSB quickly recalled the 
accounts from the debt collection agencies when Ms M made it clear to TSB that she 
wasnt happy about this.
There are also other examples where I dont feel that TSB communicated matters to 
Ms M to a clear enough degree. For instance, I have listened to the telephone call 
where Ms M contacts TSB to ask why she has received a default notice when she 
agreed payment plans of £50 per month per account. On this call, TSBs advisor 
confirms to Ms M that so long as she continues to make payments of £50 per month, 
then no further action will be taken. This is in contrast to the letter TSB sent to Ms M which explains that the £50 per month agreement is only temporary and that her 
accounts may be defaulted if she doesnt increase the repayment amount.
I can understand that TSB might point out that the correct information had already 
been provided to Ms M in the letter that she had received. But its clear from listening 
to this call that Ms M was confused and was seeking clarification from TSB, which 
unfortunately wasnt provided in this instance.
Ms M has also expressed her dissatisfaction that TSB didnt take account of her 
medical condition when she first made them aware of it. TSB have confirmed that 
their records indicate that Ms M first advised them of her condition in December 
2019, but from listening to calls on the file its clear that Ms M tells TSB before that 
time that she has a medical condition  albeit an undiagnosed one - and is unable to 
work because of this.
This may not have had a material impact on TSB in regard to how they would have 
managed Ms Ms accounts. But I do feel that TSB not appropriately acknowledging 
Ms Ms medical issues did have an impact on Ms M, especially given what must have 
been a very anxious and challenging period for Ms M at that time - having an ongoing 
medical issue the diagnosis of which had yet to be confirmed.
All of which means that, while Im satisfied that the actions that TSB took on Ms Ms 
account were reasonable, given the circumstances here, Im of the opinion that the 
way in which those actions were taken could have been batter tailored to take 
account of the personal difficulties that Ms M was experiencing. I acknowledge that it 
may be the case that TSB dont have processes in place that would make it easy to 
facilitate this, but that doesnt mean that an unfair outcome hasnt been reached as a 
result.
It follows then that Ill be upholding this account, but on the limited basis explained 
above, rather than in the manner previously recommended by our investigator.
Because of this, I dont feel that the compensation amount of £500 as previously 
recommended by our investigator is appropriate here. Instead, I will be provisionally 
awarding £100 per account to Ms M for the distress and inconvenience she has 
incurred.
However, I do feel that it would be appropriate in this instance to allow TSB to apply 
these £100 awards to Ms Ms loan accounts to reduce the amount of the outstanding 
arrears
In my provisional decision letter, both Ms M and TSB were invited to provide any further 
comments or information that they wanted me to consider. 
TSB confirmed that they agreed with my provisional decision. Ms M also agreed with my 
provisional decision to an extent, but she did request that as well as £100 compensation 
being applied to reduce the balance of each loan, that she should also receive an amount of 
compensation to be paid to her directly. And Ms M intimated that she had recently received 
further communication from debt collection agencies about these balances.
I can appreciate Ms Ms position here, and if it is the case that TSB have re-engaged 
collections agencies in relation to these accounts it would be expected by this service that 
this has been done appropriately. But as explained above, its not the case that Im 
upholding this complaint because the accounts were transferred to debt collection agencies, 
and indeed it may be entirely reasonable, and in Ms Ms best interests, for this to occur, if its the case that Ms M can obtain more favourable repayment terms than TSB can offer if they 
retain the accounts themselves. Rather, the reason Im upholding this complaint is because I 
dont feel that TSB communicated matters clearly enough to Ms M or took full regard of the 
difficult situation that Ms M finds herself in.
This means that I dont feel that any further award of compensation is merited here, beyond 
the two instances of £100 I have previously explained. And it follows from this that I see no 
reason not to finalise my decision on the basis explained in my provisional decision letter, 
and I will be upholding this complaint on that basis.
Putting things right
TSB must pay compensation of £100 for each of the two accounts that Ms M holds, although 
TSB can apply these compensation amounts to reduce any outstanding arrears on those 
accounts, if they choose to do so.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc on the basis explained 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman