DRN-4050706
The complaint
Mr B complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) should stop 
pursuing him for outstanding arrears after giving him incorrect information.
What happened
Mr B referred a complaint to us along with his representative. As the complainant is Mr B, for 
ease, I have addressed my decision to him.
Mr B took out a hire purchase agreement with MBFS in July 2019 to acquire a new car. The 
agreement was intended to run for 48 months and Mr B was to make monthly repayments of 
£542.61 towards it, in addition to paying a deposit and an optional final purchase payment. 
Mr B said that he experienced some financial difficulty during the term of the agreement and 
MBFS said that Mr B missed some monthly payments. So, he reached out to MBFS to 
request a settlement quote for the outstanding amount owed. Mr B said he did so with the 
aim to sell the car to a third-party and settle his account with MBFS and then he intended to 
purchase a smaller car. 
In April 2022, MBFS sent Mr B a settlement quote explaining that £29,513.02 was owed, and 
said the quote was valid until 26 May 2022. Mr B said he paid £300 to MBFS and believed 
this was a holding fee which would be refunded once the car was sold.
MBFS said Mr B paid the amount quoted on 11 May 2022. Mr B said he continued to contact 
MBFS to enquire about the £300 refund, but was eventually told by MBFS that he still had an 
outstanding amount to pay due to arrears accrued on his account.
Mr B later complained to MBFS as he didnt believe he should have to pay the arrears on his 
account and believed the £300 payment he made was an overpayment.
MBFS responded to Mr B with their final response. Within it, they explained that they 
implemented a new payment system in April 2022 and as a result of the system change, the 
settlement quote generated didnt include arrears. They also acknowledged that a £300 card 
payment was made on 28 April 2022 and they said this was a small gesture paid towards the 
outstanding arrears to stop Mr Bs account escalating any further. 
MBFS apologised for their error, but said they would not refund the £300 payment made and 
that Mr B still owed £1,271.26. For their mistake, they offered £400.
Mr B, unhappy with MBFSs response, referred his complaint to our service. He said he sold 
the car at the price he did, believing it would be enough to settle his account, based on the 
figure on the settlement letter.
Our investigator found that MBFS didnt need to do anything further. She said that MBFS 
acknowledged their mistake and she thought their offer of £400 compensation was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. She explained that she didnt think a fair remedy in this 
instance would be for MBFS to be deprived of the entire arrears owed as she didnt think 
their mistake nullified the agreement that existed between both Mr B and MBFS.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators view. He said MBFS provided a signed statement of 
what was outstanding on the car and the car was sold for the settlement amount that 
covered the debt. He said that had he known the settlement figure was incorrect, he would 
not have had the car sold for the amount he did. As Mr B disagreed, the case has now been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and I think the compensation MBFS has 
offered Mr B is a fair way to settle this complaint. Ill explain why below.
In this instance, it isnt in dispute MBFS had made a mistake. They acknowledged their error 
and explained it was due to a recent system change which resulted in arrears not being 
considered when calculating a settlement figure. This resulted in incorrect information being 
given to Mr B when he was given his settlement quote.
So, ultimately, what I need to consider here is whether MBFSs actions to put things right is 
fair and reasonable, given the circumstances.
MBFS offered £400 as compensation for their mistake but also explained that the arrears on 
Mr Bs account are still due and that they would not refund the £300 payment Mr B made as 
they believe it was made towards the arrears and to stop it from escalating any further.
Mr B believes a fair way to resolve this complaint is for MBFS to clear the arrears and to also 
refund the £300 payment made.
It was no doubt frustrating for Mr B to have been given incorrect information in April 2022. 
But I dont think a fair way to resolve things here is for MBFS to waive any arrears that are 
due to them. Mr B had missed payments which led to arrears accruing. And he is 
contractually obligated to pay them. While MBFS made a mistake in the figure 
communicated to Mr B, it doesnt mean that Mr B doesnt still owe the outstanding balance 
on his account. However, I do think Mr B should be compensated for the error MBFS had 
made in communicating the wrong information to him.
Mr B says he sold the car to a third-party on the basis that the value of it would settle the 
account he held with MBFS. He says he would have sold it for more had he known the 
settlement figure would have been higher.
I cant be sure what Mr B would have done. I also cant be sure whether Mr B would have 
been able to obtain a higher amount for the car when selling it to a third-party. But I think it is 
likely Mr B would have already tried to obtain the highest amount he could when selling the 
car, as it would have meant he could spend more on the next car he was intending to 
purchase. 
I do appreciate the impact on Mr B of hearing from MBFS sometime later that he still owed 
money to them. Given MBFSs apology and that the outstanding amount was communicated 
to Mr B within a few weeks of being told the wrong information, I think the £400 they have 
offered is fair in the circumstances.Mr B also complains that a £300 card payment he made to MBFS has not been refunded to 
him. MBFS has explained this was paid towards the outstanding arrears to stop his account 
from escalating further. It seems Mr B was under the impression this was a holding fee.
I have seen a copy of the settlement quote that was sent to Mr B and I cant see any 
reference to a holding fee needing to be paid. Given both Mr B and MBFS has told our 
service of missed monthly payments which had led to Mr B requesting a settlement figure to 
end his agreement early, I think it is likely the £300 payment was made to help reduce 
arrears that may have accrued. So, thinking about things here, I think it is fair and 
reasonable for MBFS to not refund the £300 and use it to offset against the remaining 
outstanding balance on Mr Bs account.
Mr B has expressed his worry about the large amount due. So I expect MBFS to treat Mr B 
with forbearance and due consideration when requesting payment to be made here. This 
might involve a suitable repayment plan, if appropriate.
My final decision
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited has already made an offer to pay £400 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should pay Mr B £400. 
To be clear, this is a payment for distress and inconvenience, so it should be paid directly to 
Mr B and not used against the arrears on the account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman