DRN-3452754
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the service received from Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd 
(Vanguard). His complaint is about the way Vanguard handled a request to transfer his ISA 
from a third-party provider (Party A). Mr D is unhappy with the time it took to process the 
transfer and has said he has suffered financial loss because of this.
What happened
Mr D put in a transfer request document on 15 April 2021 to Vanguard, to transfer cash from 
an ISA he held with Party A. He followed this up by sending a secure message to Vanguard 
too where he stipulated how much he would like to transfer over. This message was 
acknowledged by Vanguard. Mr D expected the transfer to take place within 30 days. The 
transfer was completed on 19 September 2021 and Mr D has said this delay has resulted in 
him suffering financial losses as the investments he would have put his money in, had 
increased in value during the time taken by Vanguard to carry out the transfer. 
Vanguard accepts it was responsible for delaying the transfer and has offered £250 to Mr D 
for what it said was trouble and upset caused by the delay. But it said it did not think that it 
was responsible for any financial losses Mr D says he has incurred. It said it was a cash 
transfer and Mr D did not put an investment order in place at the time. It said for this reason 
it was unable to cover any financial loss. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our service as he was unhappy with Vanguards response. An 
investigator upheld the complaint but recommended as well as paying £250 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience caused, Vanguard should also return Mr D to the position he 
would have been in if the money had been invested sooner.
Vanguard didnt agree. It maintained that as Mr D had chosen not to place a pending 
investment order at the time he requested the transfer, it couldnt determine what he 
wouldve done. It also felt that compensating Mr D further would be unfair on other 
customers in a similar position who had given a pre-existing investment instruction when 
theres been a transfer delay.
As the parties dont agree, Mr Ds complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vanguard has accepted responsibility for the delay, so it remains only for me to decide what 
represents fair compensation. 
Mr D feels he has incurred an investment loss, as the transfer delay prevented him from 
investing sooner. Vanguard considers it isnt possible to determine any investment loss as 
theres insufficient evidence to support what Mr D wouldve done had the transfer completed 
in a reasonable timeframe.
Vanguards position is based upon the fact that there was an opportunity for Mr D to indicate 
his investment intention for the cash at the point of requesting the transfer. Because he 
chose not to take that opportunity, it cant, according to Vanguard, now be determined with 
any certainty what his intentions for the cash were.
I accept that if Mr D had given an investment instruction with the transfer it would be a 
straightforward matter to conclude what his position would be but for the delay. But I dont 
think his decision not to give an instruction means its impossible to make a finding about 
what he was intending to do.
Vanguard has provided a document that it has called the ISA transfer Journey. It is a helpful 
recreation of what Mr D wouldve seen when he made his transfer request. Where Mr D 
wouldve been asked if hed like to choose his new investments, its made clear that if he 
doesnt want to at that point, that he will be able to do so once the cash is transferred. It 
says, would you like to choose your new Vanguard investments for the cash we receive (no 
problem if not  you can choose your investments later once the cash is in your Vanguard 
account). So, having reviewed the application in its entirety, I think its more likely than not 
Mr D would have thought he could invest his money himself, after the cash had been 
transferred. There is also no indication within the document, that it might be of benefit to give 
an instruction, for example  in the event of a delay.
In addition, I also need to consider Mr Ds actions following the delay in the transfer. He 
invested only three working days after the funds were transferred. He also invested into two 
funds that he had held previously and, he says, always had in mind that he would invest in 
once the transfer had gone through. And in the circumstances of Mr Ds complaint, I think 
those actions support, on the balance of probabilities, a finding that if thered been no delay 
Mr D wouldve invested sooner in the same way he did in September 2021.
UK Government guidelines state that cash ISA transfers with a different provider shouldnt 
take any longer than 15 working days. Mr D initially put a transfer request in on 15 April 2021 
and had his request and subsequent message acknowledged on this date. Vanguard has 
said that its own processes should be taken into consideration here too and that it had to 
clarify an issue about which tax year allowance was being transferred. I also appreciate that 
Mr D held a stocks and shares ISA, rather than a cash ISA. But bearing in mind it was cash 
that was being transferred, I think the guideline of up to 15 working days for a cash transfer 
should have been ample time for Vanguard to have carried out the transfer in the 
circumstances here. All of this means the cash should have been available in Mr Ds ISA 
account by 7 May 2021. It stands to reason then with all that I have concluded that Mr D 
wouldve submitted his investment instructions on this date.
Vanguard states that its processes require it to action requests from its clients in five working 
days. Had Mr D submitted his investment instructions on 7 May 2021, it seems reasonable 
to conclude that the investments would have occurred on 14 May 2021. I therefore consider 
this would be the appropriate date to use for the compensation calculation outlined below. 
Vanguard has said that compensating Mr D for investment loss when he didnt give a pre- 
transfer instruction would be unfair to customers in similar circumstances who had given an 
instruction in advance. But I dont agree. As I have concluded above, I think its entirely fair 
and reasonable to consider other evidence and the wider circumstances when deciding 
whether an investment loss should be compensated.
Finally, Vanguard has offered Mr D £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience 
caused. I can see that Mr D has spent time and effort in chasing his transfer and as I have 
already concluded, more likely than not, he was looking to invest. He could see that his investment choices were rising in value, and this must have all been a stressful time for him. 
So, I think £250 compensation for this, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances
Putting things right
Vanguard should put Mr D in the position hed be in if he invested his £20,000 cash transfer 
into the LifeStrategy 100% Equity Fund Accumulation and FTSE 250 UCITS ETF on 14 May 
2021, in the same proportion that he actually invested in September 2021.
So, I direct Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd to:
oCalculate the number of units Mr D wouldve received if hed invested on
14 May 2021 and compare this with the number of units he received when he 
invested in September 2021. If the number of units he wouldve received is 
greater, Vanguard should apply the additional units to his account. If the 
number of units he wouldve received is less, there is no loss and no 
compensation in this respect is payable.
oVanguard should also pay Mr D £250 it offered for the trouble and upset 
caused which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint about Vanguard
Asset Management, Ltd to pay compensation to Mr D as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman