DRN-2513994
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Aviva Insurance Limited refused a claim on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Es claim is that Storm Ellen, on 20 August 2020, ripped an awning off the back of her 
house causing damage, which included external render, fixed security lights and bi-fold 
doors (not the glass). Aviva rejected it because it said there were no storm conditions where 
Mrs E lived, and so no cover under the policy.
Mrs E complained to us and our investigator said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
there was a storm, so he didnt think it was wrong for Aviva to refuse the claim. Mrs E 
disagreed. She said there was a known storm that caused the damage and that our 
approach on other cases supports her claim.
As Mrs E disagrees, her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say Mrs E is covered for damage caused by a storm. Storm is defined as 
an unusual weather event with persistent high winds, normally involving wind speeds 
exceeding 55mph.
Mrs E has very limited accidental damage cover under the policy (service, fixed glass and 
sanitary fittings home). For completeness Ive reviewed her policy documents and am 
satisfied she wasnt covered for accidental damage to the items she says were damaged.
So, I need to decide whether the damage to Mrs Es home was caused by a storm. If the 
damage cant be said to be due to storm, theres no other insured event and so Aviva has no 
liability under the policy.
A useful resource in our approach to storm complaints is weather records. We use 
information recorded at designated weather stations during every 24-hour period, which 
record wind speed, rain and snow. Well also consider other relevant information where its 
provided.
Having looked at the weather records for the day in question a weather station around 6 
miles from Mrs Es address recorded a peak gust at 28mph with a maximum sustained wind 
speed of 17mph. These recordings are far below the policy requirements for a storm and so 
Im not satisfied from the weather records that there were storm conditions at Mrs Es 
property.
Mrs E has provided other Met Office information which she says supports storm winds of 38 
 45mph in the area she lives. Im not persuaded that this information is more reliable than 
the very specific weather station data on the relevant date Mrs E says the damage occurred. 
The Met Office data covers the period 19  21 August generally rather than specific day by 
day data. And in any case, the maximum speed of 45mph still doesnt meet the requirements 
of a storm.
The fact the UK felt effects of Storm Ellen doesnt mean that every single town and village 
experienced storm conditions. And Im not persuaded Mrs Es awning related damage was a 
consequence of a storm as defined in the policy. The damage is therefore not covered under 
the policy and I think on balance it was reasonable for Aviva to refuse the claim.
Mrs E has pointed to information about previous cases weve looked at, but these dont set a 
precedent. Each case is considered on its own merits and in some cases, we may find 
evidence of wind speeds at the location that are enough to amount to storm. This is not the 
case here.
Mrs E raised alleged GDPR failings with Aviva saying she would take this to the ICO. I 
consider the ICO to be the most appropriate body to address these concerns.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman