DRN-1251753
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Santander UK Plc made mistakes in making two payments to a credit 
card she holds.
What happened
Mrs P holds a current account with Santander. She also holds a credit card with a company 
Ill refer to as W here. However, while this card is branded as W the credit provider is a 
company that Ill call N in this decision. 
Mrs P makes her payments to N each month at her local Santander branch using a mandate 
set up on her account. On 1 August 2019 she attended her branch to make a payment to N. 
But this payment was returned to her account on 5 August 2019.
Mrs P had no reason to think that payment hadnt successfully credited her account with N. 
So, she went to W to make a purchase. While there her card was declined in front of other 
shoppers. Mrs P said this caused her embarrassment. She also said, while there, W 
contacted N on her behalf and informed her that her card had been declined due to a late 
payment. Mrs P said this was the first time she was made aware that there were problems 
with the payment she had made in branch. 
On 27 August 2019 Mrs P attended her local Santander branch again to make her monthly 
payment to N. Santander said, while it recorded the sort code and account number, it didnt 
take the card number. This was needed  as a reference so N knew which account to credit 
Mrs Ps payment to. So, on 29 August this payment was returned to Santander. But Mrs P 
said she wasnt aware of this problem until she visited W and tried to make a purchase. 
On 11 September 2019 N wrote to Mrs P to inform her that her account had been 
suspended as it hadnt received her contractual monthly payment. It explained that it was 
charging her a default payment fee of £12 and cancelling her promotional 0% interest offer. 
It told Mrs P that the interest rate that would be applied to her outstanding balance, which 
was just over £1600 at that time, would increase to around 29%. Mrs P was concerned that 
her credit rating was about to be adversely affected. So she withdrew £400 from her savings 
account to pay N the payments that it hadn't received and reduce her account balance.
When Mrs P visited her local Santander branch to query what had happened she was told 
that Santander would investigate and contact her the next day. The following day Mrs P said 
she was contacted by her branch manager. They advised her that Santander had made an 
error and, to put matters right, they intended to contact N to explain what had happened. Mrs 
P was offered £50 to acknowledge the trouble and upset she had been caused. Santander 
told Mrs P it thought this amount was fair and reasonable. But Mrs P disagreed and referred 
her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into this and, while they empathised with Mrs P, didnt think that 
Santander needed to do anything more here. They thought that £50 compensation was 
appropriate and fair. Mrs P disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P has asked to speak to me before I issue my decision. While I can understand why she 
may want this, its my role to consider all of the information and circumstances before 
making a final decision. Here, Im satisfied that I have enough information to do this without 
needing to speak to Mrs P. The information I have is clear and I dont need any more to be 
able to reach a decision.
Santander has already accepted it was responsible for what happened. So, the issue here is 
whether its acted fairly and reasonably in offering to put things right. In thinking about this, 
Ive considered things from both sides. 
It isnt Mrs Ps fault that the payments she made to N on 1 and 27 August 2019 were 
returned to her Santander account by N. She attended her local Santander branch and 
instructed it to make a payment to N on her behalf on each date. It was reasonable to expect 
Santander to carry out her instructions correctly. But it didnt do that and it shouldnt have 
made the errors it did here. It should have used the mandate that was set up on Mrs Ps 
account. This was how her monthly payments had successfully reached N previously and it 
would have avoided the problems Mrs P later encountered with N. 
Mrs P wasnt made aware by Santander of the errors it had made here. She had no 
knowledge of these errors until she attended W to make a purchase. I can understand how it 
must been upsetting for her to learn about what had happened in a store where other 
shoppers were present. And I appreciate the inconvenience she was caused because it was 
necessary for her to bring the problem to Santanders attention and communicate with N 
about what had happened.
However, once Santander was aware of the problems Mrs P had experienced it acted 
promptly and correctly accepting responsibility for its errors. I know that Mrs P brought these 
matters to Santanders attention. But I dont think it would be reasonable to expect 
Santander to have known it had made an error before this was raised by Mrs P. I say this 
because if Santander had known that the way in which it had processed Mrs Ps payments 
to her account with N had been unsuccessful I think it would have remedied that 
immediately. 
Santanders actions after this error was brought to its attention show it was keen to promptly 
resolve matters on Mrs Ps behalf. It investigated what had happened and contacted Mrs P 
to candidly share the outcome of its investigation. It accepted responsibility and explained 
that it wanted to compensate Mrs P. Santander also informed N that the late payments it had 
received were due to errors it made. 
Im satisfied that an award of compensation is warranted given what happened here. 
Santander has already offered to compensate Mrs P £50 for the impact its mistakes had. So, 
the only issues for me to decide are whether Santander should do anything more, or offer 
further compensation.
Its clear that Mrs P doesnt think the offer Santander has made adequately reflects her 
inconvenience and experience. She said she was caused humiliation, worry and suffered 
disturbed sleep by what happened. She also said she had to use £400 of her savings in 
order to make the two missing payments and pay a lump sum off her balance in efforts to 
reduce it. And I dont dispute any of that. But we aren't here to punish businesses. And, to resolve this complaint, I would have told 
Santander to give Mrs P an explanation of how each error had occurred and communicate 
its error with N. I would have also ordered Santander to pay compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience Mrs P was caused by what had happened here.
In this case, Santander has explained what caused these errors and it was able to persuade 
N to reinstate Mrs Ps promotional offer and restore her account to how it had been prior to 
any error taking place. As a result, N reinstated Mrs P's promotional 0% interest offer and 
her late payment charges were refunded. So, Mrs Ps account with N is in the position it 
would have been in had nothing gone wrong.
Im persuaded that this was all resolved relatively easily and quickly without Mrs P needing 
to spend a great deal of time on communicating with Santander or N. Im pleased to see that 
her credit file wasnt impacted by what happened. And having thought carefully about the 
impact all of this had on Mrs P I think a modest amount of compensation is fair here. Im 
satisfied that the £50 already offered by Santander is a reasonable amount, which is in line 
with our approach in similar scenarios. It follows that Santander should make that payment 
to Mrs P.
I can see that Mrs P told our investigator that if she hadnt visited W and attempted to make 
a purchase she wouldnt have known about the errors made by Santander. Shes concerned 
that, if she hadnt found out when she did, her account with N may have been affected more 
substantially and her credit file may have been impacted too. She's also told our service that 
she had encountered a similar problem this January when attempting to make a bill payment 
in branch, which caused her to worry that the same thing could have happened again. 
I appreciate that Mrs P is, understandably, concerned by what couldve happened. But our 
service can only award compensation where a business has made a mistake which has 
impacted on a consumer. And, as our investigator told Mrs P, we can only look at what did 
happen. So, it wouldnt be fair or impartial of me to tell Santander to pay compensation for 
something that didnt happen.
I know that Mrs P will be disappointed with this and Ive carefully considered everything 
shes said. But I think Santander has dealt with this complaint fairly and done all it can to 
resolve this dispute. So, it wouldnt be fair to ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and that Santander UK Plc should pay 
the £50 that it offered to resolve this complaint.
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman