DRN-1581952
The complaint
Mr A complains Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) has defaulted his credit card 
account with it unfairly. 
For ease Ill refer to Virgin Money throughout. 
What happened
Mr A had a credit card account with Virgin Money. In September 2018 he started to 
experience financial difficulties. Virgin Money sent out an income and expenditure form for 
completion. Mr A didnt make a payment to his outstanding balance in October or November 
2018. He contacted Virgin Money again in November as he hadnt received the income and 
expenditure form.
Another form was sent out, but rather than fill this in, Mr A wanted to complete this over the 
phone, which he did in December 2018. As a result of his existing commitments, Mr A didnt 
qualify for a formal arrangement whereby a set amount would be repaid over a set period of 
time. Instead Mr A qualified for the hardship arrangement which meant no further charges or 
interest was applied to the account. It also meant there was no set payment that Mr A was 
required to make but could pay what he could afford.
 
Mr A was sent a letter confirming the arrangement. Virgin Money continued to send Mr A 
monthly statements and notices of arrears. And in April and May 2019 he was sent default 
notices. As the arrears werent paid, the account was terminated and sold to a third party. 
Mr A complained that he wasnt given a proper explanation of the payment arrangement. 
And he says he didnt receive the default notices. Virgin Money didnt uphold his complaint. It 
was satisfied the letter confirming the arrangement explained the possibility of a default; 
arrears had continued to build up and default notices sent in advance of the account being 
terminated. 
Our investigator agreed that Virgin Money hadnt done anything wrong. She was satisfied an 
income and expenditure form was sent when requested and she couldnt hold it responsible 
for any delays. She was also satisfied the default notices were sent to Mr As address and so 
reasonably received.
 
Mr A asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. He says Virgin Money didnt 
send him the income and expenditure form when initially requested, and the arrangement 
wasnt properly explained to him. He also says he was asked if the arrangement was ok and 
was given the impression there wasnt an issue if he kept to it; the arrangement did not help 
as it kept recording adverse information.
 
Since then we have obtained the call recordings. In the call of December 2018, Mr A was 
told the account might still default or be passed to a third party. We let Mr A know and asked 
for his comments. He said this was the root of his complaint as he kept to the arrangement, 
and so was shocked to receive the letter of default and to be told the account was being 
passed to a third party. He says he should have been told about this during discussions.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The records show Virgin Money sent an income and expenditure form to Mr A when 
requested in September 2018. It held his correct address and the vast majority of correctly 
address mail is correctly delivered. On balance, I would find it most likely delivered, but even 
if it wasnt, I dont think I could reasonably hold Virgin Money at fault for any failed delivery. 
Mr A has suggested during the course of his complaint that not receiving this form earlier 
has led to some of the arrears. I dont agree  not receiving the form wouldnt have 
prevented Mr A from making a payment to his account in the interim had he wanted to. 
Mr A ultimately completed his income and expenditure details over the phone. Having 
listened to the call, Virgin Money couldnt offer Mr A a formal arrangement; it doesnt appear 
it was affordable for him, given his level of disposable income. However, that meant he 
qualified for the hardship arrangement  this was explained to Mr A as an informal 
arrangement where he could pay what he could afford; if he couldnt afford a payment then 
one didnt need to be made. This also meant interest and charges were no longer applied to 
the account. I consider this a positive step for Mr As financial difficulties and I note he was 
separately provided with contact details for organisations that might be able to help further.
 
Contrary to Mr As recollections, he was informed that arrears would continue to accrue on 
the account as he wouldnt be meeting the minimum contractual amount due, and that 
information would be recorded with credit reference agencies. He was also informed that if 
the account was in arrears after 150 days a default notice would be issued and if it went 180 
days in arrears it would be passed to a third party. So although Virgin Money checked with 
Mr A about whether the arrangement was still applicable and if there had been any change 
in his circumstances, that didnt mean arrears werent accruing or that the account couldnt 
default. Im satisfied he was warned of this possibility.  
Mr A was sent arrears and default notices. The default notices were sent in April 2019 and 
again in May 2019. Mr A originally said these werent received. As with previous 
correspondence, these were addressed correctly to him. And Im satisfied on balance they 
were most likely correctly delivered (the vast majority of correctly addressed mail is correctly 
delivered). Even if I accepted one went astray its highly unlikely both would have done, and 
Mr A has since confirmed receiving at least one of them. So Im satisfied Mr A was provided 
with an opportunity to bring the account back in order. 
I understand Mr A didnt find the arrangement helpful but Virgin Money did assess his 
income and expenditure to see how it could help. And as found above, I do think the removal 
of interest and charges was a positive step. But sometimes peoples disposable incomes just 
arent sufficient to avoid an account defaulting. 
Overall, having carefully considered everything thats been provided, Im not persuaded 
Virgin Money has done anything wrong. I therefore wont be asking it to remove the default 
or make any award against it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman