DRN-3347192
The complaint and background
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to refund money he 
lost as part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again in detail here. However, in summary, Mr A opened an account with a fraudulent binary 
options trader called RBOptions in 2016 after searching online for an investment opportunity. 
They encouraged him to invest his money, whereby he subsequently made the following 
payments:
The transactions below came from Mr As debit card:
 
Date Merchant Amount Running total
4 January 2016 RBO £300 £300
10 February 2016 RBO £500 £800
10 February 2016 RBO £300 £1,100
10 February 2016 RBO £300 £1,400
22 February 2016 *ALWRBO £3,400 £4,800
2 March 2016 RBOPTIONS £700 £5,500
 
Mr A later discovered he had been scammed when he was unable to withdraw the money he 
had invested and received no further communication from the merchant. He reported his 
loss to NatWest, who refused to refund the payments he made as he had authorised them.
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint. She initially concluded that NatWest ought to have 
blocked the first payment made to RBOptions because, by the time it was made, there was a 
warning about the trader published on the IOSCO investor alerts portal. The investigator felt 
that if NatWest had intervened from the first payment, the scam would have
likely unravelled, thereby preventing Mr A from losing any money.
However, NatWest pointed out that the warning placed on IOSCOs investor alerts portal 
was in relation to RBOptions, which was only the name of the payee for the last payment 
Mr A made to the scammer on 2 March 2016 for £700. The names of the payees before this 
(RBO and ALWRBO) did not match the name on the IOSCO warning, so NatWest argued 
that it shouldnt be held liable to refund all the payments, as it wouldnt have known to block 
the prior five payments Mr A made. As a result, they offered to refund the payment of £700 
he made to RBOptions only, on the basis that they should have only blocked this one in light 
of the IOSCO warning. 
Our investigator agreed this was fair in the circumstances, but Mr A disagreed, so the matter 
has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it, but I do not intend asking NatWest to make any 
further award. 
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. The starting position is 
that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer even where they have been 
duped into making that payment as part of an investment scam, for example. There is no 
dispute here that Mr A authorise the payments.
Banks and other payment services providers have duties to protect customers against the
risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to
guard against money laundering. But they dont have to protect customers against the risk 
bad bargains or give investment advice. And Im mindful the regulator has confirmed that
providing a fraud warning to a customer doesnt amount to investment advice.
It isnt in dispute here that the trader Mr A paid was a scammer, and NatWest has conceded 
that it ought to have intervened in the £700 payment Mr A made to RBOptions on 2 March 
2016, given that an IOSCO warning had been live about the merchant since January 2014. 
So, Ive considered whether NatWest also ought to have intervened in any of the earlier 
payments Mr A made to the merchant. But I dont think they were under any obligation to do 
so in these circumstances. 
I say this because, although Mr A was under the impression that all his payments were being 
made to RBOptions, the payees he sent money to between 4 January 2016 and 22 February 
2016 did not match the name of the trader as per the IOSCO warning. I appreciate that the 
payments made to RBO are very close in name to that of RBOptions. But I wouldnt have 
expected the bank to have automatically assimilated this with the trader listed on the IOSCO 
warning, as RBO (as an acronym) could stand for various different things (a cursory Google 
search has shown various organisations under the name RBO, for example). And the 
payment made to ALWRBO is also too dissimilar from RBOptions for any reasonable 
connection to have been made. Therefore, I dont think NatWest ought to have automatically 
blocked these payments. 
I have also considered whether there were any other reasons for NatWest to have 
intervened in the payments Mr A made  such as if they were particularly out of character or 
unusually large in relation to his normal pattern of spending. But I dont consider there was. 
The payments Mr A made were not of such a significant value that I would have expected 
the bank to have made enquiries before allowing them to be processed, as I do not consider 
they represented a significant deviation from his usual account activity. Therefore, it follows 
that I do not consider NatWest to be liable to refund Mr A any of the payments he made prior 
to 2 March 2016.
As outlined above, NatWest has already agreed to refund the £700 Mr A paid to RBOptions, 
which I think is fair given they ought to have automatically blocked it in light of the IOSCO 
warning (and the bank therefore seemingly also concede that an intervention at that point 
would have likely uncovered the scam, which I agree with, for the same reasons outlined by 
the investigator). So, Im satisfied that the offer NatWest has made is fair, and I will not be 
asking them o refund any of the other payments Mr A made to the scammer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct National Westminster Bank 
Plc to refund Mr A the £700 he paid to RBOptions. As the payment was made from his current account, NatWest should also add 8% simple interest per year on this amount from 
the date it was paid until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman