DRN-2103485
The complaint
Mr S complains that Revolut Ltd blocked his account. He wasnt provided a reason or a time 
frame for when he could access his funds. He is unhappy with the service he received from 
Revolut. He wanted the account unblocked, his funds to be returned to him and 
compensation.
What happened
Mr S had an account with Revolut.
On 25 January 2020 Revolut reviewed Mr Ss account and blocked it.
On 18 April 2020 some of the funds in Mr Ss account were returned to source.
On 18 June 2020 all the remaining funds in Mr Ss account were released.
Mr S complained to Revolut about the block on his account. Revolut said to Mr S that they 
were carrying out due diligence checks and needed to check the source of Mr Ss funds.
Mr S has said that the money in his account comes mainly from gambling as he has no 
income. He said the restrictions on the account affected him financially, as he wasnt able to 
pay his bills, he relied on his friends and family to help him out. He also said it had affected 
him mentally.
Mr S complained to Revolut. He was unhappy that Revolut hadnt given him a reason for the 
block on his account or a timeframe for allowing him access to his funds. He said he wasnt 
getting replies to his chats or tweets complaining. Revolut didnt uphold his complaint they 
said they were reviewing his account and would get back to him when they had more 
information.
Mr S was unhappy with their response, so he brought the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said that Revolut acted correctly in 
reviewing the account and they were entitled to block the account. However, he thought that 
there had been some unnecessary delays and he awarded Mr S £150 in compensation for 
the distress. He said Revolut were not obliged to give Mr S reasons why they reviewed the 
account. The investigator thought that although Revolut could have responded to Mr Ss 
queries more often, this would have not changed the position with his account or led to his 
funds being released sooner.
Mr S wasnt happy with our investigators view. He said that Revoluts actions had caused 
him to be unable to concentrate on his studies and as a result he didnt take his medical 
exams for that year. So, he was unhappy with the £150 compensation. 
Revolut agreed with the £150 compensation. 
Our investigator said that he had considered Mr Ss further comments but still thought the 
bank hadnt done anything wrong when they reviewed and blocked the account as they were 
complying with their internal processes. He thought £150 was fair compensation in the 
circumstances. Mr S had access to money to cover his expenses from family loans and 
Revolut werent responsible for Mr S not being able to take his exams. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Ss account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. Revolut have said this is what they were doing 
when they reviewed and blocked Mr Ss account.
Mr S has said that as a result the bank blocking his account he suffered financially and also 
mentally. Whilst I understand Mr Ss strength of feeling, as Ive already explained financial 
businesses have a legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. I have seen 
the evidence provided by Revolut and I can see that in blocking the account the bank were 
following an internal process which they carried out in order to comply with their legal and 
regulatory obligations. This was a legitimate exercise so I cant say Revolut was unfair. 
Mr Ss account was unblocked on 18 June 2020 with some funds returning to source on the 
18 April 2020. Having looked at the evidence I can see that there was some unnecessary 
delay in completing the review on his account. Because of this the investigator awarded 
Mr S £150 in compensation. 
I have considered the information Mr S has provided us about how the delay affected him. I 
appreciate that he didnt have access to his funds, and he has explained that this caused 
him to have to borrow money from friends in order to live. He has also mentioned that he 
was too stressed to take his medical exams. 
I know it must have been upsetting and embarrassing for Mr S to have to borrow money, but 
I agree with the investigator that £150 is fair and reasonable to put things right. I say this 
because Revolut were actively carrying out the review of his account during most of the 
period Mr Ss account was blocked. I accept they delayed the return of some of his funds to 
him but Im satisfied Mr S had access to other money through loans from his parents and 
friends. 
Although I understand not having access to his money caused Mr S stress and affected him 
mentally, I cant say that Revolut are responsible for him not taking his exams. In summary I 
am satisfied that Revolut were entitled to review and block Mr Ss account and I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
Mr S has said he wants to know why his account was blocked by Revolut. Whilst Mr S 
mayve expected to be given the reasons for the account block. Revolut isnt required to give him a specific reason. So, I cant say Revolut have done anything wrong by not giving Mr S 
this information  as much as hed like to know.
Mr S has said he was dissatisfied with the level of responses that he was getting from 
Revoluts chat team. I have reviewed the chats. I appreciate that Mr S wanted information 
about why his account was blocked and when he could have access to his funds. The 
Revolut team gave Mr S some information namely that his account was under review and 
they were making checks to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations, they said they 
were unable to give him a timeframe for the completion of the review. I appreciate Mr S 
would have liked more information, but Ive already said that Revolut isnt required to give 
him specific reasons, so I think they provided him with as much information as they could, 
and I am satisfied this didnt impact when the review was completed, and the funds returned. 
So, I wont be asking Revolut to do anything else.
Putting things right
In summary Ive already said that Revolut has procedures they must follow to comply with 
their legal and regulatory obligations. Im satisfied that is what they were doing when they 
reviewed and blocked Mr Ss account. I accept that Revolut could have returned funds to 
Mr S quicker than they did and I agree with the investigator and I think £150 to be fair and 
reasonable compensation to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I partially uphold this complaint.
I direct Revolut Ltd to pay Mr S £150 compensation because it took too long to complete its 
review of Mr Ss account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman