DRN-2811226
The complaint
Mrs B complained (on behalf of herself and the estate of her late husband, Mr B) that Lloyds 
Bank PLC (when it was trading under a different business name) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out PPI alongside their joint mortgage which started in April 2000. This 
protected their mortgage repayments in the event that Mr and Mrs B couldnt work as a 
result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Mr and Mrs B took out a new mortgage in March 2002 and they also took out a new PPI 
policy at the same time  replacing the PPI they had taken with their first mortgage. This new 
policy also covered them both for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
One of our adjudicators looked at what happened when Mr and Mrs B were sold PPI  and 
she didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. Another adjudicator has looked at 
the complaint again and come to the same conclusion. 
Mrs B disagreed with our adjudicators. Mrs B mainly said that she and her late husband 
wouldve been able to rely on each others wages if one of them couldnt work so PPI wasnt 
something they had ever wanted or needed. She said she was certain that no discussion 
took place concerning PPI to see if it was something they wanted and the policies werent 
properly explained and there was no mention of costs. Mrs B says everything they signed 
was just presented to them as part of the mortgage paperwork. She didnt think she had ever 
seen or been sent any PPI paperwork and said she and her husband knew nothing about 
any PPI policy. Mrs B is unhappy that we have accepted what Lloyds has told us when she 
feels theres no proof that what it says is correct  especially in circumstances when there is 
no-one else who can corroborate what she has told us.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Id like to reassure Mrs B that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicators. So Im not planning on upholding Mrs Bs 
complaint. But Id like to explain things in more detail and I've seen some information that we 
havent previously mentioned which I think may help Mrs B to understand why weve come 
to this outcome.
I dont doubt that Mrs B is sure about everything shes told us. But it wouldnt be reasonable 
to expect Mrs B to be able to remember exactly what was discussed when this policy was 
taken out so long ago. And what Mrs B says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold the complaint. Where the information is incomplete, as some of it is here, I must 
make my decision based on what I think is likely to have happened taking into account all 
the information thats available, what the parties have told me and also thinking about what 
we know about these types of sales. This means making some reasonable assumptions 
where theres only limited information. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B a choice about taking 
out the PPI each time it sold them a policy. 
In order to be able to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr and Mrs B 
werent given a fair choice about taking out PPI or that the policy was added to their 
mortgage account each time without their consent. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that it was added to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage without their agreement. Ill explain 
why I say this. Ive looked at each sale in turn.
2000 sale
I dont know how Lloyds presented or explained PPI to Mr and Mrs B. But in order to take out 
the policy, they had to fill in details and sign a separate PPI application form. I've seen the 
signed application Mr and Mrs B completed  they indicated how much cover was needed 
and filled in details indicating that they wanted to share the benefit of the policy equally.
I appreciate that Mrs B mightve forgotten doing this. But this paperwork does suggest that 
there was some discussion about the policy and what it offered  and Mr and Mrs B were 
involved in setting up the cover the way they wanted.  
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was a major financial commitment which they expected to pay 
back over 25 years. Mr and Mrs Bs home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments 
werent kept up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and it looks to me as if 
Mr and Mrs B couldve found PPI useful if theyd needed to claim (Ill say more about this 
point later). So I can see why they mightve felt that having PPI was worthwhile for them. 
After filling in all the paperwork to start the application process, it looks like there was a gap 
of several months between Mr and Mrs B applying for the PPI (on 14 February 2000) and 
their mortgage starting on 27 April 2000. So, if PPI wasnt something theyd wanted, there 
wouldve been plenty of time for Mr and Mrs B to make further enquires to check whether 
they had to have it with their mortgage - without any risk of delaying their application. 
I havent seen anything to make me think that happened.
Overall, I dont find the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Lloyds didnt 
make it clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs B not to choose PPI in 2000 if they didnt want 
to have it. And on balance, I think its likely that they decided they wanted to have the 
benefits PPI offered them and they chose to buy the policy  even if Mrs B has forgotten this 
now.  
2002 sale
Mr and Mrs B filled in a similar PPI application form when they arranged new PPI in January 
2002 alongside the new mortgage they were applying for. As before, they opted to split the 
policy benefits equally and I can see that they both signed this application. 
It looks like Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs B seeking clarification of their PPI requirements. It 
sent a letter to Mr and Mrs B in May 2002 confirming that it had cancelled the PPI they had 
taken out with their first mortgage on the property now sold  but Lloyds said that when it 
received their PPI application for the mortgage on the new property they were buying they noted that Mr and Mrs B also had a policy set up already on another property as well. Lloyds 
asked Mr and Mrs B to confirm where they were actually living.
I can completely understand why Mrs B may no longer recall any of these details. But it 
seems clear that she received this letter because Ive seen the reply Mrs B sent confirming 
that the policy Lloyds had identified related to a property they had moved out of and now let 
out  and Mrs B asked Lloyds to refund any money they were owed on that policy. She also 
said:
I would also be grateful if you could now start the policy .(relating to Mr and Mrs Bs new 
mortgage) as soon as possible.  
All this makes me think that Mr and Mrs B valued the peace of mind and security that having 
PPI offered them  and it looks like they were keen to make sure that they had PPI set up on 
their new mortgage in line with their wishes. 
So I havent seen enough to be able to say that the PPI sold to Mr and Mrs B in 2002 was 
added without their knowledge or consent. I think Mr and Mrs B understood that it was up to 
them to choose if they wanted it  and it was added to their account at their specific request.  
Lloyds said its advisor recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs B each time it sold them a policy.
Mrs B couldnt recall if Lloyds had personally advised them to take out PPI. But I think this is 
the fairest way to assess the complaint because if a business makes a recommendation 
about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has 
to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. So looking at the 
complaint this way gives Mrs Bs complaint the best chance of success.
Ive looked carefully at what Mrs B told us about their situation at the time they bought these 
policies to see if PPI was right for Mr and Mrs B when they took out their mortgages. 
It looks to me as if PPI wouldve been a suitable recommendation based on what Mrs B has 
said about their circumstances which seem to have been broadly the same in 2000 and 
2002. 
Mr and Mrs B were both eligible for these PPI policies. So thats not a reason for me to 
uphold this complaint.
Both policies offered very similar benefits. Each policy paid a monthly benefit that covered 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage repayments and included an extra amount which Mr and Mrs B 
couldve used to help pay household bills. 
These policies couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim if either (or both) Mr and 
Mrs B had an accident or became too sick or disabled to work.
I've taken into account that Mr and Mrs B couldve depended on getting at least 6 months' 
but less than 12 months full sick pay from their employer. But this doesnt mean PPI was 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs B. 
The PPI was guaranteed for up to 12 months per claim and it wouldve paid out in full and on 
top of any work benefits providing useful help at what couldve been a difficult time, 
especially if Mr and Mrs B mightve had some extra costs as a result of either or both of them 
being off work as a result of illness or with a disability. As well as this, the policy wouldve also paid out in the event that Mr and Mrs B became 
unexpectedly unemployed. 
Repeat claims were possible under the policy  so it couldve provided long-term protection 
for their mortgage while Mr and Mrs B were paying for their home.
Mrs B has told us that there was no pot of savings and they didnt have any other additional 
income they couldve relied on if one or both of them wasnt able to work. I've taken into 
account that Mrs B said she and her husband could have relied on each others income if 
one of them couldnt work. But, given that their mortgages were taken out when they were 
both in work, I think its likely that having to rely on only a single income wouldve had a 
significant adverse impact on their joint finances. This PPI meant they were assured that 
their mortgage monthly repayments would be maintained in full and paid on time even if 
there was a significant drop in household income. 
So, overall, I find that the PPI Lloyds sold Mr and Mrs B with their mortgages was suitable for 
them. 
There were some things the policies didnt cover  it mightve been difficult for someone 
doing only limited part time hours to claim for unemployment and existing medical conditions 
mightnt have been fully covered. But, as Mrs B told us she and her husband were in good 
health when they took out these policies and they both had full time jobs, I don't think any of 
the main policy limitations are likely to have affected them. So I dont think being given 
clearer information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put Mr and Mrs B off 
taking out PPI as Mr and Mrs B could potentially have taken advantage of all the main 
benefits the policies offered them.
 
Its possible some information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. I dont know how the PPI cost was explained. And I've taken into account 
that Mrs B is very clear that she never received any costs information.
But I can see that on 11 May 2000, just a few weeks after Mr and Mrs B moved into their 
new house, Lloyds sent them details of the PPI (including details of the monthly cost) and 
explained that they could cancel at no cost at all within 30 days if it wasnt something they 
wanted. 
The first direct debit payment they had set up to cover the monthly premium for the PPI 
wasnt due to go out of their bank account for another couple of weeks. 
So even if the cost wasnt made clear to Mr and Mrs B before they signed up for this policy, 
I think they wouldve had ample time to cancel if they hadnt wanted to pay for it. 
And as Mr and Mrs B paid for this policy each month they wouldve always been able to 
cancel it at any time without incurring any extra cost if they didnt want to continue paying for 
it. 
When they took out the policy in 2002 it seems clear from the correspondence I've 
mentioned above that Mr and Mrs B were anxious to make sure that PPI was put in place 
without any delay. 
And they had set up the payment arrangements at their bank to cover the monthly cost when 
they applied for the PPI. So I think they must have been happy to pay for the cover they 
wanted at the time. And, as with their earlier policies, these were paid for on a monthly basis. So this policy 
couldve been cancelled any time without losing any money if Mr and Mrs B felt they no 
longer wanted to pay for the cover. 
Taking everything into account I think the policies couldve been potentially useful if 
Mr and Mrs B had needed to claim  and I think Mr and Mrs B thought this too at the time.  
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account everything Mrs B told us, including what 
she has said in response to the adjudicators assessments. 
But, on balance, I dont find theres enough information for me to be able to say that Mr and 
Mrs B lost out as a result of anything Lloyds did wrong when it sold them PPI. 
So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my provisional decision.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs B has sent me further comments in support of her view that she and her husband were 
mis-sold PPI by Lloyds. 
Lloyds has made no further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs B feels strongly about what happened and she holds a different view to 
me. 
I would like to assure her that Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said, 
including her comments sent in response to my provisional decision. 
Mrs B hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this 
case. Id already considered the main points she has mentioned when thinking about my 
provisional decision and addressed all the points raised which had a bearing on the 
outcome. I dont feel there is anything more I can usefully add at this stage.
I can understand that Mrs B is disappointed in the outcome of her complaint. But I hope that 
setting things out as Ive done helps explain how Ive come to my view.
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and the estate of Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman