DRN-4360192
The complaint
Miss H complains that PrePay Technologies Limited caused her several issues for many 
months including blocking her account.
What happened
Miss H says PrePay have been debiting money from her account without an explanation, 
then they blocked her account without giving her any notice, which caused her wages to 
bounce back. She says they have an obligation to let her know her account has been 
blocked and they gave her no reason why her account was blocked. It has since become 
unblocked. Miss H made a complaint to PrePay.
PrePay did not uphold Miss Hs complaint. They said she incurred two declined transaction 
fees due to declined transactions with a third party company as they were attempted with an 
old card that had been cancelled. PrePay said she was advised of their contactless limit as 
she had multiple transactions decline due to her exceeding her contactless limit. They said 
she had five contactless card transactions and the sixth transaction needed to be completed 
with Chip and Personal Identification Number (Chip & PIN) to reset the limit. 
PrePay said it had already been confirmed to Miss H that her account had recently been 
blocked and unblocked as it had undergone a standard review to ensure it was being used in 
line with their terms and conditions. They said this caused multiple transactions to decline as 
her account was suspended for use whilst it was being reviewed, but she incurred no 
transaction fees for this. Miss H brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Hs complaint. He said the declined transaction fees 
were charged in line with the terms of the account. He said Miss H had used a card which 
hadnt been cancelled and wasnt valid, and she had exceeded her number of contactless 
transactions. Our investigator said PrePay placed a block on her account in accordance with 
the terms and conditions as they were completing a review. Under the terms they didnt have 
to notify Miss H, and this is why her salary was returned. He said that PrePay refunded 
£12.42 in declined transaction fees and the monthly fee of £4.97 while the account was 
blocked as a gesture of goodwill. 
Miss H asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said that PrePay had acted 
illegally and have caused her harm which qualifies as financial malpractice. She detailed the 
impact that this had on her health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H has made a number of points to this service, and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us  including what shes said about her health. But, in line with this 
services role as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of her complaint in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Miss H has mentioned that PrePay have acted illegally with their actions. But if Miss H wants 
a decision that PrePay has broken the law, then shed need to go to Court. Ive ultimately 
decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account to see if PrePay have acted in line 
with these  after all, Miss H would have needed to have agreed to be bound by these when 
she opened her account with PrePay. 
I can see the terms set out that there can be declined transaction charges applied to her 
account. Miss H sometimes incurred these when she used an old card to try and pay for 
items. As the old card was not active, then a transaction would be declined if she used the 
old card details. And I could not hold PrePay responsible if Miss H did not ensure the active 
card details were used. So I cant say that PrePay didnt act in line with the terms and 
conditions by applying this charge when the transactions were declined. 
The terms and conditions show under term 6.1 that Please note that, for security reasons, 
after every fifth consecutive Contactless transaction a Cardholder will be required to enter 
the PIN to authorise the transaction. So if Miss H had not entered her PIN after every fifth 
consecutive contactless transaction, and this caused the transaction to decline, then Im 
persuaded that PrePay wouldnt be acting against the terms and conditions if they charged 
her a declined transaction fee, as Miss H was made aware of the requirement to enter her 
PIN after every fifth consecutive contactless transaction. 
Ive considered what happened when the block was placed on Miss Hs account. I know that 
this caused Miss H considerable distress as her salary was returned and this happened just 
before Christmas, which only added to the impact that this had on Miss H. But looking at the 
terms and conditions, I cant say that PrePay acted against these here as section 16.2 of the 
terms states We can suspend or terminate any Cards and/or, Account at any time with 
immediate effect (and until your default has been remedied or the Agreement terminated) 
without any prior notice to you if and 16.2.2 says we believe that this is necessary for 
security reasons. So here, PrePay did not need to give her any notice to suspend her 
account in order to complete a review for security reasons.
The suspension/block of the account resulted in Miss Hs salary not being credited to the 
account. And while I have a great deal of sympathy for the position Miss H found herself in 
here, the terms show that under section 8.2 that A payment coming into the Account may 
not be credited to the Account if and under section 8.2.3 it says the Account is inactive or 
blocked. So as the account was blocked (suspended) due to the security review this 
resulted in the payment not being credited to the account. 
Under section 8.3 the terms continue to say The funds may be sent back to the sender or 
Cardholder (where applicable) without notifying you if paragraph 8.2 applies. So as section 
8.2 applied here, the funds were sent back without notifying Miss H. I know this caused Miss 
H inconvenience and distress but PrePay acted in line with the terms that she would have 
needed to agree to when she first opened the account. So it follows I dont require PrePay to 
do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman