DRN-3031123
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.      
summary and background to complaint
Mr and Mrs M said Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them personal loan payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
Nationwide didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because 
it said Mr and Mrs M had referred the complaint to us too late.  
 
But Nationwide did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 
50% of Mr and Mrs Ms PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr and Mrs M about the 
high level of commission and profit share theyd pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint about how this policy was sold. And they thought Nationwides payment was a fair 
way to resolve the complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that  
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more 
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them 
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be 
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Nationwide sent its final response about the mis-selling complaint on 14 June 2016. So Mr 
and Mrs M had until 14 December 2012 to refer their complaint to us. But they didnt do this 
until 2018. So the complaint was referred out of time under the rules I have to apply.
I can look into complaints referred outside the usual time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances. 
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs Ms representative has said about that. But, while I know 
this will be disappointing for them, I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply here. I 
believe Mr and Mrs M could have referred their complaint to us by 14 December 2012. 
So Im sorry that were unable to help Mr and Mrs M with their complaint about how these 
policies were sold.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs M about the high levels of commission and profit share 
paid in this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship wtheme the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Nationwide and Mr and Mrs M was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act because Nationwide didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit 
share in this case 
I dont think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs M 
because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs M should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Nationwide failed to tell Mr and Mrs M about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whetthem the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr and Mrs M in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Nationwdie not 
disclosing the high level of commission to them before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Ms representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Nationwides failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Nationwide to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr and Mrs M paid for their PPI policy - I consider this fairly 
removes the source of the unfairness. 
So I consider that Nationwides payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest wtheme 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
As Nationwide has already paid Mr and Mrs M compensation on this basis, I dont consider it 
should do anything further. 
my decision
Im unable to consider Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about how their policy was sold, because it 
was referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits 
was because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs M an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable). As Nationwide Building Society has already paid compensation 
on this basis, I do not consider that it should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 Carole Clark
Ombudsman