DRN-3587049
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited declined a claim he 
made on his income protection policy. 
What happened
On 1 February 2021 Mr O applied for a Legal and General income protection policy. During 
the application process he was asked questions about his health, including about Covid-19. 
His application was accepted and a few months later he made a claim on the policy for a 
mental health condition. 
Legal and General declined the claim because they said that Mr O hadnt given accurate 
answers about his health during the application process. They said that he hadnt disclosed 
he was self-isolating due to Covid-19 and, had he done so, hed have been asked to reapply 
90 days later. As the claim fell within that 90 day period of time they cancelled the policy and 
refunded the premiums to Mr O. Mr O made a complaint but Legal and General maintained 
their decision to decline the claim. They offered Mr O £500 compensation for issues with the 
handling of the claim, including a delay in handling it. Unhappy, Mr O complained to our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint because she 
thought, based on the underwriting information, that Mr O could have taken out the policy 
within 30 days. However, Legal and General provided more information which demonstrated 
they wouldnt have offered Mr O a policy until 90 days had passed. So, she decided not to 
uphold the complaint. Mr O asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, he 
says he self-isolated as a precaution, not because of medical advice or because hed had 
symptoms of Covid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Legal and General thinks Mr O failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he answered the medical questions on the application form. 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
In the application form Mr O was asked In the last 14 days have you been self-
isolating or advised that you should?. Mr O answered no to that question. But when 
Legal and General reviewed Mr Os medical records there was an Isolation note 
which says: the person named above has been told to self-isolate by an NHS service 
or healthcare professional. This is because they have symptoms of coronavirus
The note was dated 21 January 2021 with an end date of 31 January 2021. Mr O 
obtained a quote on 28 January 2021 and completed the application form on 
1 February 2022. If Mr O had answered yes to the question hed have been told that 
he couldnt take out the policy and to apply again after 90 days had passed. This 
means Im satisfied Mr Os misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA 
because Legal and General wouldnt have offered Mr O a policy
Legal and General say that Mr Os misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. I 
agree that it was. Mr O had just completed a period of self-isolation immediately 
before hed taken out the policy. So, I think its most likely to have been something 
that was fresh in his mind around the time of his application given that hed just 
ended a period of ten days isolation. The policy documentation also shows that the 
quote was obtained on 28 January 2021 during the period of time Mr O was isolating 
Ive taken into account that Mr O says he wasnt advised to self-isolate and only did 
so as a precaution. But thats not what the medical evidence suggests is most likely 
and I dont think its unreasonable for Legal and General to rely on that evidence. 
And, in any event the question asked, In the last 14 days have you been self-
isolating or advised that you should?. Ive emphasised the first part of the question 
as I think it is clear that the answer to the question should be yes even if someone 
hasnt been advised to self-isolate. So, Mr Os points in relation to this havent 
changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint
As Im satisfied that Mr Os misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate or 
reckless, Ive looked at the actions Legal and General can take in line with CIDRA. 
Under the legislation Legal and General is entitled to cancel the policy and retain the 
premiums. They also dont have to pay any claims as they can treat the policy as if it 
never existed. I note that in this case Legal and General have returned the 
premiums, which goes beyond what they are required to do under CIDRA. So, I think 
theyve acted fairly and reasonably by returning the premiums and declining the claim
Legal and General paid Mr O a total of £500 for customer service failings, including 
delay and poor service. I can see that this was a worrying time for Mr O and I note 
that he was diagnosed with a mental health condition. I think Legal and General 
could have progressed things more quickly and theyve acknowledged that the 
service they provided could have been better. But I think £500 compensation fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr O. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman