DRN-4183328
The complaint
Mr T complains about U K Insurance Limited (UKI) and the pre-accident valuation (PAV) 
payment he was paid after his car was deemed a total loss following a road traffic accident. 
What happened
Mr T held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by UKI. Unfortunately, Mr T was involved in 
a road traffic accident, which significantly damaged his car. So, on 14 February 2022, Mr T 
contacted UKI to make a claim on his policy.
UKI arranged for an engineer to call Mr T on 20 February, to discuss his car and the damage 
it had sustained. But the engineer failed to call Mr T as agreed. Mr T made UKI aware of this 
and another call was arranged, and made, the following day.
Following this call, Mr Ts car was deemed a total loss. And the engineer valued Mr Ts car 
at £13,000. This payment was raised on 24 February, less Mr Ts applicable excess. But Mr 
T was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr T didnt think the PAV payment of £13,000 less the applicable excess was a fair one. Mr 
T thought this PAV payment failed to allow him to purchase a car of a similar make and 
specification. So, he wanted the PAV payment to be increased to £15,000. Mr T was also 
unhappy with AILs communication during the claim process. Specifically, Mr T was unhappy 
with the engineers failure to call him, their decision to close their email availability and the 
wait time he experienced when calling UKI.
UKI responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the PAV payment made to 
Mr T was a fair one, calculated in line with industry guidelines. So, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Mr T remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied the PAV 
payment UKI made fell in line with the range of motor trade guide valuations theyd found. 
And, that the policy terms made it reasonably clear UKI would pay the market value for the 
car at the time of loss, which isnt necessarily the retail value. So, our investigator didnt think 
the PAV payment should be increased. They also thought the apology UKI provided when 
the first engineers call was missed was a fair one, considering another call was arranged 
and made the following day. So, they didnt think UKI needed to do anything more.
Mr T didnt agree. He didnt think the PAV payment UKI made took into consideration the 
condition of his car, or his location and how this impacted retail prices for similar cars in his 
area. Mr T also didnt think our investigator had considered UKIs decision to stop email 
communication from its engineers, and his belief UKI were purposely using a system 
designed to frustrate consumers.
Our investigator considered these points, but their view remained unchanged. And they 
explained the difference between what our service can consider, and the issues that fall 
under the remit of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Mr T 
continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr T. I appreciate the 
inconvenience he wouldve been caused by the accident, and the damage caused to his car. 
And I recognise Mr T had his insurance policy in place to help assist him both practically and 
financially in these situations. So, when Mr T felt UKIs communication had been below the 
standard hed expect, and that the PAV payment he received left him at a financial loss, I 
can understand why Mr T would look at the way UKI handled the claim and question how 
fairly hed been treated.
But for me to say UKI should do something more, such as increase the PAV payment paid to 
Mr T, I first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied 
UKI failed to act within the terms and conditions of the policy, and industry guidelines, when 
calculating the PAV payment Mr T received. Or, if I think UKI did work within these, that they 
acted unfairly in some other way that would warrant financial compensation. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy explains that if your car is damaged, we will pay 
the cost of repairing or replacing your vehicle up to its UK market value and that UKI will 
not pay more than the market value of your car at the time of the loss (less any excess that 
may apply). 
So, as Mr Ts car was deemed a total loss, Id expect UKI to pay Mr T the market value of his 
car, less any applicable excess. 
Our service, and industry guidelines, expects a business such as UKI to calculate the market 
value using motor trade guides. On this occasion, I can see UKI obtained two trade guide 
valuations, before settling on a valuation of £13,000. To ensure this valuation was fair, our 
investigator obtained a further two trade guide valuations, meaning Ive seen four trade 
guide valuations for Mr Ts car, at the time of loss.
These valuations range from £12,500 to £13,871. Where there is a range of valuations, our 
service would expect the PAV payment paid to a customer to fall reasonably within this 
range. And on this occasion, I think its clear the £13,000 PAV payment falls fairly within the 
range of valuations obtained. Because of this, I dont think I can say the PAV payment UKI 
have paid Mr T is unfair, or that it was calculated outside of the terms and conditions of the 
policy and industry guidelines. So, I dont think UKI need to increase the payment Mr T 
received.
I understand Mr T wont agree with this. And Ive considered his comments about his inability 
to purchase a car of a similar make, specification, and condition with the PAV payment he 
received. But I think its important to point out that the market value of a car is different to a 
retail value. The insurance policy Mr T holds isnt designed to pay Mr T the retail value of his 
car, and I wouldnt expect UKI to provide Mr T with a payment that covers any potential 
markup placed on a car by either a private seller or a dealership, with the intent of making a profit. So, while I do understand Mr Ts unhappiness, I dont think this is because of anything 
UKI has done wrong here.
Ive then turned to the service Mr T received during the claim process. Its accepted by UKI 
that Mr T shouldve spoken to the engineer on 20 February 2023. And, that this conversation 
didnt take place due to an error by the engineer, working as an agent of UKI. 
But I can see UKI apologised for this when they spoke to Mr T on that day, and a new 
conversation time was agreed which took place the following day. As this conversation did 
take place, and in this conversation the total loss of Mr Ts car was agreed with a PAV put 
forward, I think the apology UKI provided, alongside the actions they took to rearrange the 
conversation, is a fair response to this issue on this occasion as I think the impact on Mr T 
was recognised and minimised.
I recognise Mr T has also expressed concerns about the length of time it took for the claim to 
be processed. But I note it took 10 days from the date of notification to the date of the PAV 
payment being raised. And I think this is a more than reasonable time frame, so I dont think 
Ive seen any evidence of avoidable delays, bar the missed conversation, that would warrant 
UKI to pay Mr T a compensatory amount.
And I also recognise Mr T has concerns about the processes UKI have in place for 
customers to contact them. Specifically, Mr T is unhappy with the wait times to speak to UKI 
over the phone. And, that he was unable to contact the engineer in writing, or that he 
received a written report from the engineer.
But our service isnt able to comment on, or direct businesses to change, their business 
processes as these form part of their commercial decision making, which falls under the 
remit of the FCA to investigate. So, its not my role to comment on the staffing levels of UKIs 
call handlers, or their offering of a call back system. Im also unable to comment on UKI, and 
their agents, ability to receive and respond to e-mails, where this function has been actively 
removed.
But what I can say is Ive seen from UKIs system notes that Mr T did make use of the call 
back system, to minimise the length of time he needed to wait to speak to UKI. And Id 
expect there to be a certain level of inconvenience for a customer when speaking to a 
business, as I dont think its reasonable or proportionate to expect calls to be answered 
straight away due to the volume of contact a business is likely to receive at any given time.
And I think Mr T was made reasonably aware of what the PAV payment he received would 
be. So, while he didnt receive a written report initially, I dont think UKI or their engineer 
were obliged to provide this to Mr T. Nor do I think Mr T was prevented from challenging this 
valuation with UKI directly because of this.
So, because of all the above, while I do appreciate Mr Ts concerns and I am aware he is 
likely to disagree, I dont think I can say UKI have acted unfairly or impacted Mr T in a way 
that requires them to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about U K Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman