DRN-1393577
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly gave him 
loans he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened 
Mr Lender gave Mr M 4 loans between April 2017 and November 2018. 
Here are some of the main details of those loans:
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid  
Instalments 
Amount 
Repayment
1 07/04/2017 14/07/2017 3 £250.00 £125.33
2 15/07/2017 14/12/2017 5 £600.00 £283.20
3 14/12/2017 15/08/2018 6 £800.00 £331.73
4 27/11/2018 14/06/2019 6 £600.00 £228.00
 
Mr M said that Mr Lender gave him these loans when he was in extreme financial hardship 
and the loans shouldnt have been provided if Mr Lender had done better checks before 
lending to him. 
Our adjudicator thought that there wasnt enough to say that loans 1 and 2 shouldnt have 
been provided. But, at the point of loan 3, he felt that proportionate checks would most likely 
have shown that Mr M was having problems managing his money. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Lender would've become aware that Mr M was using a high 
number of other short term lending providers and he had multiple other short term high cost 
loans outstanding when he took out loan 3. His view was that Mr Lender ought to have 
realised it was unlikely Mr M wouldve been able to sustainably repay this loan  and any 
subsequent loans. 
So our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint about loans 3 and 4 and set out the steps Mr 
Lender should take to put things right.
Mr Lender didnt accept our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.What I've decided - and why 
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We've set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans - not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think he had enough evidence to say loans 1 and 2 shouldnt have 
been provided. Ive looked at the information gathered, including income and expenditure 
information from the time, and I agree that there isnt enough to say Mr Lender shouldnt have provided these loans to Mr M. As far as I can see, Mr M hasnt disagreed with the 
adjudicators recommendation in relation to these loans so I dont think I need to say any 
more about them.
Looking at Mr Ms borrowing pattern I can see that he asked to take out loan 3 on the same 
day that loan 2 was repaid. He asked for an increased amount over a longer period. This 
suggests that he mightve been having problems managing his money and couldnt afford to 
pay back what he had borrowed without borrowing again. So although the loan looked 
affordable on the figures Mr M gave I dont think that Mr Lender shouldve continued to lend 
to Mr M without a more thorough check of his circumstances. 
Ive taken into account the checks Mr Lender said it carried out before approving this loan  
including the questions it asked Mr M.
I dont think just asking Mr M about other short term loans wouldve been enough in these 
circumstances. I think at this point Mr Lender should have taken steps to verify what Mr M 
was saying about his financial circumstances as they appeared at odds with his borrowing 
pattern. Mr Lender hasnt shown me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out 
proportionate checks before agreeing loan 3. 
Mr M has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Mr Lender 
was likely to have found out. To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender should have done 
this. But, in the absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable picture of Mr Ms 
finances at the time. And had Mr Lender looked in more depth at Mr Ms finances it would 
likely have seen that he was facing serious problems managing his money.
I think Mr Lender wouldve learnt that Mr M had a long established record of taking out short 
term loans to help him get by month to month. Mr Lender wouldve realised that it looked like 
Mr M had used some of the money hed previously borrowed from Mr Lender to repay other 
short term loans. And that Mr M had multiple other short term loans outstanding when 
Mr Lender provided loan 3 to him.
This means I dont think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to think that it was likely Mr M 
would be able sustainably to repay loan 3 so it shouldnt have provided this loan  or allowed 
Mr M to borrow any further. 
So Im upholding Mr Ms complaint about loans 3 and 4.
Putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 3 and 4, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. Pay Mr M the total of "A" plus "B".
D. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Ms credit file for loans 3 and 4. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor these reasons, I partly uphold this complaint and PDL Finance Limited (trading as 
Mr Lender) should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman