DRN-3559214
The complaint
Mrs G complains about advice given by St James Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) to
invest in an Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS). Mrs G says the advice was unsuitable, in
particular it was too high risk and SJP misled her about the timescale for investment.
What happened
In 2015, Mrs G sought financial advice from SJP. The purpose of the recommendation was
to provide advice about investment of funds from the sale of an asset, which had been sold
for £615,000 in 2014, triggering a substantial capital gains tax liability.
It is common ground that advice was sought around tax efficient investment and SJP had
already advised Mrs and Mr G to invest £115,000 each into a loan plan, with the aim of
freezing the growing value of their prospective inheritance tax (IHT) liability whilst retaining
access to capital. No complaint is made about that recommendation.
SJP then recommended investing part of the remaining funds, £150,000 each, into EIS on
the basis that capital gains could be deferred, 30% income tax relief could be claimed and if
the investment was held for over two years, inheritance tax relief was also available. Further,
the particular EIS targeted capital preservation with future options that might enable Mrs G to
reduce capital gains tax in the longer term.
Mrs G recalls that information was provided about tax efficiency but says the high risk to
capital was not explained. No suitability letter was provided before or after the
recommendation was made. The adviser completed the paperwork for the investment on
behalf of Mrs G and asked her to sign it on the day funds were transferred. The adviser also
drove Mrs G and her husband to the bank to ensure the funds transfer completed. Mrs G
further complains that shes been unable to access the capital for over six years. She was
not advised that it could take significantly longer than three years to liquidate the funds.
Mrs G also complains that no information about SJPs fees and fees to the EIS provider
were explained or provided before the investment was made. The application form was
completed by the adviser.
The value of the EIS has significantly reduced over time, having lost around 70% as at June
2020 and the investment remains illiquid. Mrs G says she has sustained a significant capital
loss for which she seeks compensation.
The representative acting on behalf of Mrs G, emphasises the distress and upset this matter
has caused Mrs G and her family.
SJP maintain that the recommendation was suitable as the tax benefits met Mrs Gs
objectives at the time. They say that investment into an EIS scheme was discussed over a
period of time (around six months) and the high risk of investing in such a scheme was set
out in the product providers Information Memorandum (IM), which was provided to Mrs G.
They point out that Mrs Gs husband discussed his concerns around specific risks from
Brexit and currency exchange directly with the product provider and was satisfied with the
responses he received at the time.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He thought the investment was in line with       
Mrs Gs attitude to risk and thought Mrs G had been made aware of the inherent risks 
associated with the EIS investment. Whilst Mrs G had not taken much risk in the past, our 
investigator thought Mrs G was willing to take higher risks to secure the tax benefits. Our 
investigator thought the timing around disposal of assets was set out in the IM and the 
charges were set out in the application form and the IM.
Mrs G disagreed with the view. 
I issued a provisional decision in April, upholding the complaint, after considering all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what was fair and reasonable. I took into 
account that at the time of seeking advice, Mrs G was retired and jointly owned her 
residential home with Mr G outright, held £201,934 in insurance-based investments (namely 
bonds), jointly owned other valuable collectables and had a joint disposable income of just 
over £600 a month from a net joint monthly income of just over £4,000 (a combination of 
pension and investment drawdowns). Mrs and Mr G accepted a recommendation in June 
2015 to invest £115,000 each into a loan trust plan from £607,000 that had been held on 
deposit, leaving a balance of funds in cash. This decision considered the advice to invest in 
an EIS from the remaining cash funds.
Attitude to risk
At the time of the recommendation Mrs Gs other investments were mostly held in
distribution bonds or physical assets.
In the suitability letter, SJP categorised Mrs G as an upper medium risk investor, being
willing to, invest a proportion of your overall wealth in higher-risk assets with the potential
for significant IHT savings. You understand the additional risks of investing in UK smaller
companies, acknowledging the more illiquid nature of such investments compared to larger
listed companies, and are comfortable with some of your capital being invested in these
markets. You are investing for three years or longer, and recognise that you may experience
significant falls in the value of your investments.
Mrs G said she didnt receive the suitability letter and was shocked by the assessment of
risk she had now seen. As the suitability letter post-dated the transfer of funds to the 
provider by around one week, I accepted Mrs G wouldnt have seen it before the decision to 
invest was made. Further, in response to the complaint raised on Mrs Gs behalf, SJP said 
Mrs and Mr G were ordinarily medium risk investors who were prepared to accept upper 
medium risk for this particular investment in return for the tax benefits on offer. In my view, 
this suggested SJP knew Mrs Gs overall risk appetite was lower.
It was said on Mrs Gs behalf that the adviser led her to believe that income could be drawn
from the loan trust and capital gains would be payable on the sums withdrawn. Whereas the
EIS was recommended to lock away the remaining proceeds from the sale of the asset for
up to three years with the benefit of capital gains tax being deferred. I thought that was  
consistent with commentary in the recommendation for the loan plan, in which SJP also 
recommended paying a portion of CGT and referred to the balance of funds being invested 
in EIS, which after the initial qualification period could then be used to wash out your Capital 
Gains Allowances on an annual basis whilst deferring the CGT liability on this element of 
your capital which would become IHT exempt after two years. It was also supported by the
illustration provided by the adviser, which showed projections over time with annual
withdrawal of the capital gains tax allowance whilst recording that the capital investment
would remain the same over time. The projections for inheritance tax savings in the
suitability letter also assumed the capital sum would not deplete. It was my view that 
comments referring to Mrs G as a medium risk investor and the presentation of the investment as maintaining capital, supported Mrs Gs assertion that she didnt intend to 
expose the capital sum to high risk.
So, for the reasons given, I was not satisfied that the assessment of Mrs Gs attitude to risk
was accurate. On balance, I was not persuaded that the particular differences between EIS
and the other investments held by Mrs G were explained by SJP before the investment was
made, especially the concentration and risks with early stage investment in unlisted
companies. I thought the adviser likely misled Mrs G into thinking that for a little more risk 
she could achieve tax benefits.
Pressure to invest
Mrs and Mr G recalled a sense of urgency on the advisers part. When the EIS provider
launched a new scheme, the adviser encouraged quick action and accompanied Mrs and Mr
G to their accountant to discuss tax implications. Id seen that the application forms were
completed by the adviser and it didnt appear to be disputed that he drove Mr and Mrs G to
the bank to make the transfers. The forms were signed by them on 17 September 2015 and
bank transfers were made that day. Whilst I accepted that the application forms and 
transfers were completed on the same day, I also considered that discussions about the 
investment had been ongoing over a number of months and the scheme appeared to have
been popular. So, on balance, I didnt think it is likely that Mrs G was pressurised into going
ahead with the investment, but as I concluded below, I was not satisfied that the risks were
adequately explained.
Illiquidity
Mrs G said she wasnt advised about the risk of her money remaining tied up beyond three
years. That seemed to be supported by the adviser who referred to Mrs G being able to 
make withdrawals after the qualifying period. The IM highlighted that no guarantee could be 
made about disposal of the investment, but suggested the period from sending in the 
application form to selling the shares would be around 4.5 years (or longer), with the earliest 
exit point likely to be at least four years. But there was nothing to show that the adviser 
addressed this directly with Mrs G when considering the objectives. I hadnt seen anything 
which showed the adviser understood or advised Mrs G specifically about how capital was to 
be released in the context of this particular investment. I thought that would have been a 
relevant factor in the risk assessment, when assessing the prospects of partially redeeming 
capital within a given timeframe. A response from the provider in November 2019, explained 
that it was down to the discretion of investment managers as to when underlying assets of 
an investee company might be sold and the sales process alone could take six-twelve 
months or longer. Usually they waited for all the companies in the tranche as a whole to 
finish trading for three years before starting any sale process. So, timelines werent 
guaranteed.
The illustrations provided by the adviser simply showed how the product could work, 
showing withdrawals of the capital gains allowance from the EIS after the third year, which 
wasnt a realistic timeline given the information in the IM. As Mrs G was seeking and relying 
upon professional advice, I didnt think it was enough for the adviser to expect Mrs G to have 
identified different factors from the IM. It was for the adviser to assess the risks within the 
suitability assessment. And it was clear that Mrs G hadnt expected her funds to still be tied 
up over six years later.
Risk warnings
Mrs G was clear that SJP didnt properly explain the nature of EIS or the risks to her.
SJP said Mrs G had details of the main features and benefits in the IM and their EIS leaflet.
Id seen that the IM set out the investment strategy of capital preservation rather than
growth. That was separate to the inherent risks of investing in an EIS scheme, which were
set out in a risks section of the IM. The introduction also said,Octopus EIS should be considered a high-risk investment, and as such isnt for everyone.
Even though we target capital preservation, your capital is still at risk.
But I thought it was important to highlight that it was for SJP to make a suitable
recommendation that met Mrs Gs needs, having assessed her attitude to risk, objectives,
capacity loss and circumstances, including highlighting the level of risk. It wasnt enough for
SJP to rely on Mrs G reading the IM.
From what Id seen, it appeared that the adviser downplayed the risks with the investment.
As set out above, in illustrations the adviser held out that the capital sum would not
depreciate over time.
In a letter to SJP complaints team the adviser explained that discussions around the
suitability of an EIS began in some detail after the individual loan plans were arranged but
there was nothing to show that the adviser highlighted the nature of the risk of investing in 
EIS, as opposed to focusing on tax benefits. The adviser said,
. .the xx group were used to provide information at this time as to what an EIS is and how it
works, the associated risks of investing in such a plan, the costs and charges for the
arrangement . . The one re-occurring theme in the literature is the higher risk nature of such
investments and in particular with regards to liquidity . . .
The adviser went on to say that he had not been qualified to address certain risk associated
questions around areas such as Brexit implications, so arranged for Mrs and Mr G to speak
directly with a fund manager of the EIS. Nowhere in the letter did the adviser say that he
explained and took into account the high-risk nature of the EIS products.
The adviser conceded that a meeting with Mrs and Mr G and the representative at Mrs Gs
home had been on a very much higher level and focused on the concept of what an EIS is,
the basis on this occasion for the investment in solar powered farms in Italy, the taxation
benefits with regards to CGT and IHT as well as income tax reclaims. The focus on taxation
benefits was in line with Mrs Gs and the representatives recollection of events. Whilst it was 
fair to say that overall tax benefits could mitigate some of the capital risk, in this instance, 
Mrs G wasnt looking for income tax relief.
In my view the adviser gave too much weight to the potential capital gains tax benefits.
There was nothing to show that the adviser balanced that against and/or addressed the high
risk of investing in an EIS, indeed the adviser conceded that he spoke about,  . . how the
scheme would provide a lower risk approach to investment using the Retain Facility . .
namely how funds realised after sale of the underlying asset could be reinvested retaining
the EIS status. But this would have resulted in Mrs G tying up her capital for longer, whilst
continuing to expose it to the risk of significant losses and I wasnt persuaded that was in line
with her objectives. EISs are non-mainstream, complex, illiquid, specialised and speculative
investments, where there is a real risk of losing the original, capital investment.
Whilst the focus on the capital gains benefits was highlighted, I was not persuaded that Mrs 
G understood the level of risk she was taking, and SJP hadnt demonstrated that she was in
fact willing to take that level of risk to achieve her objectives at the material time.
SJP also accepted there was a higher concentration of risk due to the lack of diversification
with funds being invested into one EIS where investment was made solely within the
renewable energy sector. Whilst the IM stated investment may be in one or a small number
of companies, with the investments being in one sector, Therefore, there is likely to be
limited diversification, which could increase the risk for investors. SJP said Mrs G wasprepared to take more risk to secure the capital gains tax benefits but Id not seen anything
from the adviser drawing attention to this factor prior to the suitability letter, which was
written after the funds were invested.
In his letter the adviser said he discussed the delay in deployment of the capital in review
meetings and described the investment moving through a J curve, with net asset values
falling on capital deployment. He maintained that Mrs and Mr G were aware of the risk of
values dropping but did not raise any concerns at the time. But given the early stage of
investment, in my view this didnt show that Mrs and Mr G understood the overall risks.
The absence of explanation from the adviser about the risk of the investment was consistent
with Mrs Gs recollection. On balance, I was satisfied that the risk of investing in EISs was 
not adequately explained to Mrs G at the time. It wasnt enough for SJP to rely upon the EIS
Declaration, which simply said investors could get back less than they invested, especially
as I found that the form was completed by the adviser leaving only the signature for Mrs G
to complete on the day the transfer provided for investment. It was for SJP, as the adviser, to
enable Mrs G to understand the particular features and risk of this investment, not just the
concept of an EIS.
Suitability
The financial review undertaken by the adviser recorded that Mrs and Mr G wished to use
the capital sum to provide an income stream and wanted to invest for the benefit of family
heirs. Tax efficiency was also to be considered, particularly consideration of CGT liability
arising in January 2016, estimated to be around £160,000.
The suitability letter for the EIS referred to objectives of inheritance tax mitigation and capital
gains deferral. But I thought it was more likely than not that the main focus of the EIS
recommendation was capital gains tax deferral.
The representative acting on Mrs Gs behalf also recalled that the adviser had consistently
provided assurance that the benefits of investment in terms of mitigating capital gains would
far outweigh the small potential for loss. As set out above, that recollection of events was
consistent with way in which potential returns and withdrawals were displayed in illustrations
at the time.
It was said that the adviser recommended this particular EIS as it gave the option for Mrs G 
to transfer the holding to a similar scheme at the end of the qualifying period, enabling roll 
over of the CGT liability or a partial/full exit. It was now said a partial exit would enable a sell 
down of holdings up to the value of the annual CGT allowances, enabling Mrs G to withdraw 
funds in stages, whilst managing down the deferred CGT. Whereas the suitability letter 
repeatedly referred to capital gains tax deferral, rather than reduction. In any event, in my 
view, the information about using the capital gains tax allowance was misleading because it 
was held out that the capital sum would remain the same over time. So, I didnt agree that 
the reality actually met Mrs Gs objectives.
I thought it was entirely plausible that Mrs G relied upon what she was told by the adviser. 
The suitability letter was dated after the decision to invest was made and after the 
documents were signed. Mrs G consistently said no such letter was received and SJP hadnt 
provided anything to show that it was sent. And even if it was sent, it was clear from the 
timeline that it would have been sent after the decision to invest was made so the content 
would not have formed part of the decision making process, accordingly, I placed limited 
weight upon it.
On balance, I was not persuaded that capital gains tax deferral or inheritance tax exemption
was more important to Mrs G than capital preservation (recorded as a priority in the financial 
review). Even the adviser recognised that inheritance tax benefit was not a key consideration at the time. As Mrs Gs representative highlighted, the risk with the investment was 
disproportionate to the benefits obtained. Also given the objectives and the recognition by 
the adviser that Mrs and Mr G foresaw a greater need income in the future and were looking 
to access their capital, I thought Mrs G was exposed to more risk than she wanted to take.
Further, I thought Mrs G had intended to have access to the funds after the three-year 
period. As addressed above, I didnt think it was made clear that the funds could remain 
illiquid for a number of years and there was nothing to show that Mrs G wanted to tie the 
funds up for a lengthy period. Indeed, SJP accepted the opposite in their response to the 
complaint, namely that Mrs G had an objective of being able to access capital to supplement 
her income and fund additional expenditure as well as gifting. And even though SJP said 
partial withdrawal was a possibility, I hadnt seen any assessment of the likelihood of this, 
which would have been a key factor when assessing the suitability of the recommendation.
I considered that some funds were being retained on deposit and Mrs G held other
assets, so Mrs G had some capacity for loss. But given the objectives, I was persuaded by 
the representatives assertion that had Mrs G been made aware of the risks that capital 
losses could outweigh the tax benefits, she and Mr G would have paid the capital gains tax 
and invested the balance of funds into a less risky product. I considered that a consistent 
and plausible account has been given on behalf of Mrs G and given her circumstances at the
time, I didnt think she would have risked losing a substantial amount of the £150,000
investment.
Overall, therefore, I was not satisfied that the recommendation was suitable for Mrs Gs 
needs.
Fees and charges
The representative said no information was given about the fees charged by SJP and the
EIS provider.
It wasnt disputed that Mrs and Mr G paid for professional advice for years, so I thought it 
was unlikely that they didnt expect to pay any fees. SJPs fees were set out in the 
documents signed by Mrs G and the providers fees were referred to and set out in detail in 
the IM. The adviser was adamant that the fees and charges had been discussed as SJP 
didnt take ongoing advice charges for this type of investment, which was another reason 
why it provided greater value for money. Also, SJP confirmed that the account management 
charges (AMCs) were not applied when the investment was worth less than the net 
investment amount.
On balance, I considered that it was more likely than not that adequate information was 
given about fees, so I didnt uphold this aspect of the complaint.
Conclusion
As Mrs G was receiving advice from SJP, it was reasonable for her to assume that investing
in the EIS was suitable for her circumstances, objectives and attitude to risk. I was not
satisfied that Mrs G wouldve invested if shed understood the risks involved and overall, I 
was not persuaded that the recommendation was suitable. Mrs G had been very clear that 
she didnt have a high attitude to risk. It was also relevant that Mrs Gs circumstances were 
going to change in that her income need was likely to increase in the future.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I considered how to put Mrs G back into the position shed
have probably been in if she hadnt been given unsuitable advice, which wasnt as
straightforward as simply refunding the original investment.I was mindful that had it not been for the unsuitable advice, Mrs G wouldnt have had the
potential EIS tax relief and she wouldnt have whatever value (if any) the EIS now had. The
investments had also now been held for longer than three years.
Given the information Mrs G has provided, I thought shed have invested differently. It wasnt
possible for me to say precisely what she would have done, so I considered what I thought 
was fair and reasonable given her circumstances and objectives when she invested. To
compensate Mrs G fairly, SJP must:
Compare the performance of Mrs Gs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
SJP should also pay interest as set out below.
Investment 
nameStatus benchmark from (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Octopus EIS Still exists FTSE WMA Date of Date of my 8% simple
Stock Market investment decision per year from
Income Total date of
Return Index decision to
and then date of
from 1 settlement (if
March 2017 compensation
the FTSE is not paid
UK Private within 28
Investor days of the
Income Total business
Return Index being notified
of
acceptance)
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end
date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be surrendered or readily sold on the
open market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the
actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs G agrees to SJP taking
ownership of the investment, if it wished to. If it is not possible for SJP to take ownership,
then it can request an undertaking from Mrs G that she repays to SJP any amount she might
receive from the investment in future.
SJP may also add to the actual value any available tax reliefs Mrs G has received by virtue
of making the investment. It may ask her for evidence of this, or assume she has availed
herself of all available relief at her marginal rate of tax.
For ease it can calculate the value of the available relief and add it to the actual value as one
figure at the end.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?I decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs G was willing to accept some investment risk.
The WMA index and Private Investor index are made up of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. 
They would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to 
get a higher return.
Although they are called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use them as a reasonable measure of 
comparison given Mrs Gs circumstances and risk attitude.
I also took into account that Mrs G suffered distress at being unable to access her
funds, whilst watching the value deplete overtime. I considered that it was more likely than 
not that she suffered distress and upset as a result of the advice given and the subsequent
locking into an investment, which was unsuitable for her needs. In my view it was fair and
reasonable to make an award of compensation and I considered that £500 was a fair sum.
The parties have now considered the provisional decision. Mrs Gs representative broadly 
agreed with the provisional decision but submitted that the award for distress and 
inconvenience was disproportionately low given the impact upon Mrs G. Further, SJPs full 
fees should be refunded in light of their poor advice and service.
SJP disagreed with the provisional decision. They maintained that the recommendation was 
suitable, weight should be attached to the suitability letter, Mrs Gs attitude to risk was 
consistent with that undertaken for another investment (the loan plan) and no complaint was 
made about that risk assessment, Mrs G was adequately informed of the risks given she 
signed the EIS declaration and signed to say shed read the IM, SJP highlighted other 
decisions and said that Mrs G had sufficient capacity for loss.
Ive now reviewed these additional comments along with all the information provided in order 
to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not persuaded to change my original outcome.
Ive taken into account SJPs comments about their process at the time, whereby a suitability 
letter could be sent within 10 calendar days after application. SJP repeat that weight should 
be given to the suitability letter, but Im not persuaded this changes anything. For the 
reasons given in the provisional decision, I remain of the view that in this case, limited weight 
should be attached to the content of the recommendation provided after investment as made 
and I place more weight on the consumers recollection of events and documents provided 
before the funds were invested. I think it is likely that Mrs G would have relied upon the 
verbal assurances, coupled with the illustrations provided by the adviser. Whilst it might be 
that no guarantees were made as to returns, it remains my view that the adviser held out 
that the capital sum would be unlikely to change over time and that was misleading given 
this was a high risk investment.
As to Mrs Gs attitude to risk, SJP havent been clear. Initially they said Mrs G had a medium 
risk appetite but was prepared to take more risk with this investment to gain tax advantages. 
Later they said Mrs G was properly assessed as having an upper medium attitude to risk more generally because the same assessment was made for the loan plan and no complaint 
was raised about that assessment. First, its important to note that Mrs G and her husband 
have consistently said they did not receive a suitability letter for the loan plan or for the EIS 
investment. These letters were first seen in 2020 in response to an information request. It is 
Mrs and Mr Gs case that if they had seen an overall risk assessment of upper medium 
they would have questioned it. Second and in any event, theres still nothing to show that 
this adviser properly explained the high-risk nature of the EIS investment to Mrs G. 
As to the presentation of risks, the information within the IM is a factor, but as Ive explained 
it isnt enough for the adviser to rely upon Mrs G reading the IM. It was for the adviser to 
make a suitable recommendation. Given the consistent account by Mrs G and her 
representative, coupled with the presentation of the illustrations, it remains my view that the 
risks were downplayed because the risk of losing all or a substantial amount of the capital 
investment was not made clear. 
SJP have pointed to other outcomes in different cases. But as I have explained to SJP, each 
complaint is assessed on its own particular facts and in this case I have placed more weight 
upon the timing of signing of the EIS declaration and the oral assurances which I consider 
were likely provided by the adviser. I have found the testimony of Mrs G, her husband to be 
persuasive and consistent and given that professional advice was being provided, it was not 
unreasonable for the consumer to rely upon what she was told by the adviser.
Taking everything into account, for the reasons set out in the provisional decision and above, 
I am not persuaded that the recommendation met Mrs Gs objectives and I find that it 
exposed her to more risk than she wanted to take. It is therefore fair and reasonable to put 
things right for Mrs G.
Putting things right
SJP encouraged me to consider tax relief when calculating redress. I agree that any tax 
relief obtained should be added to the actual value, to avoid double recovery and this has 
been addressed above. As to CGT deferral and potential IHT savings, SJP havent provided 
evidence of any tangible financial benefit yet received by Mrs G, so Im not persuaded its 
fair and reasonable to include them in the calculation of losses. 
In my view the method of redress proposed in the provisional decision, set out above, 
remains fair and reasonable to compensate for any financial losses.
Mrs Gs representative said the compensation award for distress was disproportionate and 
she emphasised the impact this matter has had upon Mrs G and her husband. Its clear     
Mrs G and her husband have found the locking up of their capital and subsequent loss in 
value to be distressing and Ive taken into account the inconvenience theyve faced pushing 
for information from SJP, all set against the background of difficult personal circumstances. 
But I am also mindful that they have worked together to progress the complaint and that I am 
awarding like compensation for distress and inconvenience to them individually. So overall, it 
remains my view that £500 each is fair and reasonable compensation.
Mrs G also said SJPs fees should be refunded in full because of the poor service provided. 
The recommended redress compensates Mrs G against the benchmark for the gross 
investment, not the net figure after deduction of fees. So, Id like to reassure Mrs G that this 
has been factored into the redress calculation. And I dont agree that SJP should refund the 
fees in full because Mrs G would likely have taken advice in any event.
So, on balance, I consider that the method of redress set out above plus £500 award for 
distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable to put things right for Mrs G.My final decision
I am upholding this complaint. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend that
SJP pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation
should be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that SJP should pay the
amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £160,000 (including distress or
inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the balance as set out above. SJP
should provide details of its calculations to Mrs G in a clear, simple format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that SJP pays Mrs G the balance plus any interest on the
balance as set out above.
If SJP does not pay the recommended amount, then any investment currently illiquid
should be retained by Mrs G. This is until any future benefit that he may receive from the
investment together with the compensation paid by SJP (excluding any interest) equates to
the full fair compensation as set out above.
SJP may request an undertaking from Mrs G that either she repays to SJP any amount Mrs
G may receive from the investment thereafter, or if possible transfers the investment to SJP
at that point.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind SJP. It is
unlikely that Mrs G can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs G
may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept
this decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman