DRN-4325317
The complaint
Mr L complains that TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED (TU) is displaying 
incorrect information on his credit file which they wont remove.
What happened
Mr L says his TU credit file incorrectly shows he has three accounts with a company that Ill 
refer to as L. He asked TU to remove at least one of these accounts (account A) in 2021. 
As he saw this hadnt happened, in April 2023, he complained to TU about account A and 
the other two accounts (B and C). TU responded letting Mr L know that only accounts A and 
B were showing on his credit file. They said they had disputed account A in 2021 and L had 
said it would be closing the account. But as it was still showing on the credit file in 2023 TU 
agreed to raise a new dispute with L for account A and said they would also dispute account 
B at the same time.
Mr L was unhappy with TUs response and so brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt think Mr Ls complaint was one that should be upheld, in summary she 
said TU had done what they needed to do when they raised disputes with L and that if Mr L 
still believed the accounts were incorrectly showing he would need to take it up with L 
directly.
Mr L disagreed with the investigator and asked for an Ombudsmans decision, so the matter 
has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have to tell Mr L that I have reached the same outcome as the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons  so Im not sure there is much I can usefully add to 
whats already been said.
It may be helpful to explain that I am only considering TUs actions up until they issued their 
final response to Mr L on 13 July 2023, even though I may mention events beyond this date.
Credit reference agencies such as TU are provided data from a variety of sources such as 
local authorities, utility companies, lenders and debt management companies (data 
providers). This is normally by way of an automatic monthly update. The data providers own 
the data and are responsible for making sure it is up to date and accurately reflects the 
status of an account. Having said that, TU also have a duty to ensure they play their part in 
making sure data that is displayed is accurate. So, if they are challenged by a customer on 
the accuracy of the data they are displaying, they are expected to raise a dispute with the 
data provider and ask if they can change or remove the data. It is then up to the data 
provider to say if the data should be changed or removed. Its worth pointing out here that if 
TU removed or changed the data without the data providers permission, it would simply 
reappear at the next automatic update, so wouldnt be a permanent solution.
In Mr Ls case I can see that TU disputed account A with L in October 2021. L responded 
saying the account was closed on 8 July 2021, but as it had defaulted the account would still 
show with the default for six- years form the date of default. 
When Mr L complained to TU in 2023, he says account A, B and C were showing on his 
credit report however TU only had A and B showing. Mr L hasnt argued this or provided 
anything to show account C was showing on his credit file, so I have accepted it is only 
account A and B that is outstanding.
In their final response to Mr L, dated 13 July 2023, TU said it would raise new disputes with 
L about account A and B. So, Im satisfied that TU was following the process as it should to 
ensure the data, they were displaying was correct. It follows that I cant fairly say TU has 
acted unfairly, so I wont be asking it to do any more to resolve Mr Ls issue here. 
I know Mr L will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we - in trying 
to resolve his dispute with TU  can do for him. But I hope Mr L finds it reassuring to know 
that TU have provided evidence to this service to show that following the final response letter 
they did raise disputes with L for accounts A and B. They also provided evidence to show 
that L responded saying that Mr L should get in contact with it directly if he wanted to discuss 
the accounts. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman