DRN-1748529
complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that they were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) when 
they took out a further advance on their mortgage with Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds).
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a further advance on their mortgage with Lloyds in 1997. At the same 
time they were sold a PPI policy. The PPI covered Mr F only and wouldve covered the 
repayments on the further advance for up to 12 months at a time if he wasnt able to work 
due to accident, sickness or redundancy.
Mr and Mrs F say they were made to feel like it would help get their application for the further 
advance approved if they took the PPI. They say werent give any other information about it 
other than it would protect their payments. They say they werent asked about their other 
means to pay the mortgage. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs F 
disagree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
The further advance and PPI were sold over 20 years ago, so its not surprising that neither 
party has retained all of the documents from the time. Lloyds says the PPI would have been 
discussed with Mr and Mrs F and that it was optional. Mr and Mrs F say they were made to 
feel like buying the PPI would help their application, but they havent explained what was 
said to make them think that. Lloyds has provided a copy of the further advance application 
and it doesnt suggest that PPI will make a difference to any application. I cant safely rely 
solely on Mr and Mrs Fs recollections from so long ago and without evidence to the contrary 
I cant safely say that the PPI was added without their knowledge or consent or that they 
were led to believe it would have made a difference to their application. 
Lloyds says it likely gave Mr and Mrs F a personal recommendation to buy the PPI. So it had 
an obligation to take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for them. Looking at Mr and 
Mrs Fs circumstances at the time I think it was suitable for them. I say this because:
 
Mr F, whom the policy covered, was eligible for the cover and wouldnt have been 
affected by any terms which mightve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim  such as those related to existing medical conditions or self-
employment;
Mr F had some contractual sick pay. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to 
this and potentially for considerably longer than his full sick pay would have lasted. It 
also wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Mr F received. So I think 
the policy provided a useful additional benefit, especially as the borrowing was 
secured on Mr and Mrs Fs home;
Mr and Mrs F say they could have relied on Mrs Fs salary if needed. But this was 
already part of their household income, which would have dropped significantly if Mr 
F wasnt working;
Mr and Mrs F say they had savings they could have relied on. I havent seen any 
evidence of these savings, but I think its likely Mr and Mrs F would have had other 
uninsured household expenses to cover if Mr F wasnt working, so the PPI would 
have meant that their savings could be used for those other costs; 
The premiums were paid monthly and could have been cancelled at any time without 
a financial penalty.
 
Lloyds also had to make sure it gave Mr and Mrs F enough information about the policy so 
they could make an informed decision about buying it. I cant know what information was 
given to Mr and Mrs F at the time, but as the policy seems to have been suitable for them I 
dont think theyd have made a different choice about the policy even if they understood all 
the finer detail about it. I think as a minimum they understood the policy was designed to pay 
their repayments if the insured person wasnt able to work.
So, on balance, I dont think Mr and Mrs F lost out as a result of anything Lloyds mightve 
done wrong. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint so it follows that Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have 
to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman