DRN-1555872
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy taken out in 
February 2008. Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Cheltenham and Gloucester 
(C&G) mis-sold them MPPI.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs H 
didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me  an ombudsman - to issue a 
final decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
C&G had to make it clear that the policy was optional and get Mr and Mrs Hs consent 
before adding the policy. Mr and Mrs H say they have no recollection of being given a 
choice about the MPPI. As the mortgage and MPPI were arranged during a meeting I dont 
know what was discussed. So Ive considered Mr and Mrs Hs comments alongside the 
information we have from the time of sale to decide what I think its more likely to have 
happened.
C&G has provided us with a copy of the demands and needs statement that was completed 
at the time. This form contains details of their personal circumstances and indicates a 
detailed discussion took place about Mr and Mrs Hs needs. A recommendation has been 
made for the PPI to be purchased and for it to cover Mr H. It seems other insurance, such 
as life cover and critical insurance was declined at this stage. Based on what we know 
about how MPPI was sold I wouldve expected the conversations with the C&G advisor to 
reflect the details within this statement. And if Mr and Mrs H werent sure about the cover, I 
wouldve expected them to query it before agreeing to the cover. 
It also seems that Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage since 2004 with C&G which didnt have 
MPPI with it. This suggests they knew they could have borrowing with C&G without 
MPPI, and that it was a separate and optional product. And in 2008 when they arranged 
their further advance they couldve declined the cover if they didnt want it.
So based on the evidence Ive been provided, I think its most likely Mr and Mrs H knew 
at the time that the MPPI was optional and they decided to take it. But I can understand 
why they might not recall this now, as the sale took place many years ago.
C&G recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H so it had to check that the MPPI was right for 
them. Although this was a joint mortgage the MPPI covered Mr H only. Looking at Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time, I think the policy was suitable for him. I say this because:
2
Mr H was eligible for the MPPI.
It doesnt seem Mr H was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
MPPI cover  like unusual working arrangements or known medical 
conditions.
Mr H says he wouldve received sick pay for up to six months from his employer 
at the time. And he says he wouldve received some redundancy pay. The MPPI 
wouldve paid out for 12 months if Mr H was off work due to accident or sickness. 
It also wouldve paid out for this long if he lost his job. This means Mr and Mrs H 
wouldve had peace of mind that their mortgage payment would be covered, and 
any employer benefits could be used to help cover every day expenses or other 
financial commitments. 
Mr and Mrs H were taking on a significant and long-term financial commitment, 
which was secured on their home. So the effects of not keeping up with the 
repayments couldve been serious for them. And I think having the security that 
their repayments wouldve been made if Mr H was unable to work wouldve been 
important to them.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs H. And as 
the policys premiums were paid monthly, they could have amended or 
cancelled the policy if it no longer met their needs.
Its possible the information C&G gave Mr and Mrs H about the MPPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for them if something 
went wrong. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put them off 
taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said, including their comments about the 
forms not being completed by them and that commission was being paid. I appreciate this, 
but Mr and Mrs H wouldve reviewed and signed the forms. And the payment of 
commission to advisers doesnt automatically mean the MPPI was mis-sold. Every case is 
looked at on an induvial basis by our service to consider whether the PPI was appropriate.  
So, these points dont change my view and I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold. I know this 
will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs H, as they clearly feel strongly about their complaint. 
But I hope my decision clearly addresses their concerns.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman