DRN-3552927
The complaint
Mr P complains QIC Europe Ltd unfairly declined his insurance claim for storm damage. 
What happened
In November 2021 Mr P made a claim for storm damage against his QIC home insurance 
policy. QIC accepted there had been a storm. But following its surveyors inspection it said 
the storm hadnt been the main cause of damage. QIC was of the opinion the weather had 
instead highlighted the existing poor condition of Mr Ps roof. So it declined the claim.  
Mr P made a complaint. He said storm had caused the damage. In response QIC repeated 
its position that the weather conditions had highlighted the existing poor condition of the roof. 
It continued to refuse to settle Mr Ps claim. He wasnt satisfied with that so came to this 
service. He wants QIC to pay the cost of repairs to the roof. He also wants compensation for 
the distress caused by the claim being declined  
Our investigator wasnt persuaded storm was the main cause of damage. So he didnt 
recommend QIC pay the claim or do anything differently. Mr P didnt accept that, so the 
complaint was passed to me. He said he would be providing further information, but 
unfortunately failed to do so within reasonable time. So Ive made a decision based on the 
information I do have.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require QIC to settle Mr Ps claim or to do anything 
differently.  
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of 
evidence Mr P or QICs provided. Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be key or 
central to the complaint. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything 
provided. 
When considering this complaint about Mr Ps declined storm claim the key question for me 
to ask is  was a storm the main or dominant cause of the damage? Unfortunately for Mr P, 
Im not persuaded it most likely was.
Based on its surveyors report and photos QIC concluded the cause of damage to be wear 
and tear. The surveyor found damage to slates, capping board and guttering all to be near 
the end of their life or affected by decay. The photos do show the roof to be in a generally 
poor condition. As QIC says it appears to be suffering from deterioration across the board. 
Mr Ps provided part of a home survey report from February 2021. It comes to the same 
conclusion about the roof as QICs surveyor  finding it to be close to the end of its useful 
life. I note that Mr P did have some roof tiles replaced in June 2021. However, the February 
2021 report finds the roof to be ready for a full, rather than partial, recover possibly in less 
than five years.
Overall Im more persuaded by QICs position that the storm wasnt the main or dominant 
cause of the damage  but it instead highlighted the already existing poor condition of the 
roof. So I cant say its decision to refuse the claim was unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman