DRN-1556263
Complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with 
a store card in 2001. The credit facility was provided by a high street bank, but there has 
been a change in the company which is now responsible for answering these types of 
complaint. The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD.
Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA throughout this final decision.  
Background
The store card was taken out in a store and obtained by filling out an application leaflet and 
credit agreement. PPI was added on to the card and Ms J says she doesnt remember being 
told much about it.
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it should be 
upheld. AXA disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im upholding Ms Js complaint.
I was sent the application form and credit agreement Ms J signed when she took out the 
store card account and PPI in February 2001. I can certainly see quite a few ways in which 
this form could have been set out in a much more comprehensive and clearer way, not least 
because the PPI box didnt really say anything about what was and wasnt covered by this 
type of insurance. The PPI section was so short that I can understand why Ms J might not 
remember signing it.
Nevertheless, AXA provided a non-advised sale and this means it didnt need to make sure 
the PPI was suitable for Ms Js situation. But it still needed to provide enough clear 
information for Ms J to make an informed decision about the cover  and this is where I think 
AXA fell short of its responsibilities.
Ms J told us she has suffered from various health issues for quite a while and overall, her 
health hasnt been good for a number of years. When she signed her form however, which 
included the PPI option, there was no readily available information which pointed out what 
the actual rules of the PPI policy were. Our experience tells us, for example, that a medical 
condition Ms J had been suffering from since around 1997 wouldnt have been covered by 
the PPI. This means if shed needed to take time off work because of that particular illness, 
the PPI wouldnt have been of any use to her. Its for this reason that I think the policy was 
mis-sold.I dont think AXAs reply about this issue is satisfactory. It says the medical condition 
wouldnt have required time off work and asks for it to be proved. But in my view AXA cant 
say what the potential impact of such an illness might be and when Ms J agreed to the PPI 
she was entitled to have the main features brought to her attention. Shes also been 
consistent about her health problems. 
AXA, on the other hand, failed to ask anything at all about her health on what was a very 
short form and there was nothing on it which suggested her health might be an important 
issue. Given this medical issue was an ongoing one, I think Ms J would have wanted to 
know it would be covered by taking out this type of cover. AXA didnt do this and so Im 
upholding the complaint.
what AXA should do to put things right
AXA should put Ms J in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already and AXA should:
Pay Ms J the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest 8% a year from .
If Ms J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Ms 
J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Js complaint and direct AXA France IARD to 
pay the above compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman