DRN-4064712
The complaint
Mr P and Ms C complain that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) unfairly 
declined a claim they made on their mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mr P and Ms C made a claim for damage to a 
mobile phone insured under their policy in July 2022. The claim was accepted and settled by 
way of a replacement remanufactured phone.
In December 2022, Mr P and Ms C reported an issue with the replacement handset. They 
said the screen was lifting at the bottom corner of the phone, and the volume up button 
wouldnt work.
AIG said the phone had been physically damaged, which meant the issues couldnt be 
considered under the replacement warranty. So, it said Mr P and Ms C would need to raise a 
new claim. But this didnt succeed either because their policy limited them to one claim per 
year.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said any 
issues with the replacement handset needed to be notified within the first 72 hours, under 
the policy terms, but hadnt been until around five months later. 
Our investigator also considered whether, on balance, the handset could have been faulty. 
She said she was most persuaded by AIGs report, which highlighted a dent to the bottom of 
the phone, indicating damage had been sustained after that 72-hour period. Based on this, 
she said AIGs decision not to cover the issue under the replacement warranty was fair. And 
she agreed that it was fair for AIG not to cover a new claim for damage, because the policy 
limited Mr P and Ms C to one claim per year.
Mr P and Ms C didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered the available evidence, I agree with the conclusions reached by 
the investigator. Ill explain why.
Our investigator quoted the relevant policy terms and conditions in her assessment, so I 
dont intend to repeat those, verbatim, in my decision. Instead, Ill broadly summarise them 
where relevant to my findings.
Mr P and Ms Cs policy confirms replacement phones will be in as new condition  i.e. free 
from cosmetic damage. Should this not be the case, the policy requires that any cosmetic 
damage with the replacement should be reported within 72 hours. If reported after that, the 
policy explains AIG may consider the damage to have happened after the phone was 
received. Mr P and Ms C didnt report the issues with their handset for several months.
AIG has highlighted a dent in the bottom corner of the phone. The same corner where the 
screen appears to be lifting. Based on this, it said the issues were most likely caused by the 
phone being dropped or sustaining some other form of impact, after the handset had been 
received. AIG has also explained that impact damage can cause issues with internal 
components, so its likely all the issues are connected. Having considered the images and 
videos of the phone alongside AIGs report, Im inclined to agree.
Mr P and Ms C have said the dent in question was a scuff mark caused by the case and 
have sent updated images after wiping it down. I agree the mark looks less severe in the 
pictures theyve sent. But Im still of the opinion that it is clearly a dent from some form of 
impact. And given its in the same locality as the area of the screen, which is lifting, I 
consider AIGs conclusions to be reasonable in the circumstances.
Given that Mr P and Ms C reported the issues significantly outside of the 72-hour timeframe 
for reporting cosmetic damage and given there is evidence of impact damage to the 
handset, I think it was fair and reasonable for AIG to refuse to deal with the claim under the 
replacement warranty.
Mr P and Ms Cs policy also clearly restricts them to one claim per policy year. So, I think it 
was fair and reasonable for AIG to decline a separate claim for the issues reported as it had 
already settled one claim during 2022.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr P and Ms C complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman