DRN-4323940
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited trading as Tesco Bank 
Box Insurance. He isnt happy about the way it dealt with a claim under his motor insurance 
policy.   
What happened
Mr S made a claim under his motor insurance policy and initially Tesco Bank looked to repair 
his car. But when the repairer looked to fix Mr S car the repair was delayed and drawn out 
before it was eventually decided that the car would be written off. Mr S complained to Tesco 
about the delay amongst other things and then he complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S and upheld his complaint. He thought Mr S 
should be paid £200 compensation for the delay in finalising his claim and the poor service 
he received. 
As Tesco Bank didnt agree, maintaining that it hadnt done anything wrong, the matter has 
been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has raised a number of issues with Tesco Bank, but the focus of this decision is solely 
on the delay in dealing with Mr S claim and the impact on him. And I know that Tesco Bank 
dont agree with our investigators position but I think it is fair for it to pay Mr S £200 in 
compensation, Ill explain why.
I can understand why Tesco Bank decided to write off Mr S car and that there were 
problems in starting the repairs which impacted on the delay in advancing his claim and the 
ultimate decision to write his car off. Our investigator has outlined that there were a number 
of steps Tesco Bank could have taken to repair Mr S car and went on to say that he felt 
Tesco Bank should pay £200 compensation for the delay in processing Mr S claim.
I know Tesco Bank has responded to say that it did all it could to repair Mr S car before 
deciding it was a write off and it explained the problems its repairer faced in looking to repair 
Mr S car. It has suggested that it wasnt responsible for any delay caused by its repairer, but 
as they were its chosen agent for repair I think Tesco Bank is responsible overall here. But 
our investigator went on to make it clear that he felt Mr S should be compensated as there 
was a delay (of at least three months) in the referral of Mr S car for repair and because of 
the poor service he received.
So, although I can understand Tesco Banks position and the repair of Mr S car was delayed 
by its repairer, but I agree with our investigator that the three-month delay in the attempts to 
repair Mr S car and eventually decide it was a write off was too long. Mr S had to go back 
and forth to the repairing garage, had his courtesy car removed quickly and the service he 
received wasnt to the expected level. Given this I agree that Mr S should be paid £200 by 
way of compensation for the delay, stress, and poor service he received. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK trading as 
Tesco Bank Box Insurance should pay Mr S £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman