DRN-3206880
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc allowed a current account to be fraudulently 
opened in her name. Shes also unhappy with how HSBC handled matters after first 
reporting the fraud and the knock-on effect this caused. 
What happened
Both Miss A and HSBC are acutely aware of what happened and the specifics of Miss As 
complaint, so Ill just summarise the main points again below.
In April 2020, a fraudulent application was made for an HSBC Premier current account in 
Miss As name. A few days later, Miss A discovered what had happened and reported the 
issue to HSBC. 
HSBC accepted Miss A had been the victim of impersonation fraud and closed the account. 
They informed Miss A of this by letter, two weeks after shed told them of this. They also 
confirmed that all links to the fraudulent account would be removed from her credit file, as 
well as explaining her details would be added to the CIFAS database in order to try and help 
prevent this from happening again in the future, either with them or any other financial 
services provider. 
Miss A raised a complaint with HSBC about how theyd handled the fraud claim, alongside 
her concerns with how the account had been allowed to be opened in the first place.
HSBC responded to the complaint and accepted they couldve handled things better. They 
credited Miss As account with £100 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset shed 
been caused, to include the cost of the additional registration shed made with CIFAS. 
Miss A remained unhappy with HSBCs response and brought her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. During their investigation, HSBC agreed 
to increase the amount of compensation offered to Miss A by a further £50  bringing the 
total amount to £150. 
In their view, the investigator told Miss A that they considered this updated offer to be fair. 
But Miss A disagreed  so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What I provisionally decided
In advance of this final decision, I issued a provisional decision in which I indicated I was 
minded to uphold this complaint.
I didnt think the £150 offered by HSBC fairly acknowledged the specific impact caused to 
Miss A. This was because I had found:
HSBC ought to have been aware of some red flags during the application. So, I 
thought it wouldve been reasonable for HSBC to have taken some additional steps 
to verify whether it was Miss A who had applied for the account. Had HSBC carried 
out these further checks  it may well have been possible to prevent the further worry 
and distress caused to Miss A.
HSBC shouldve done more to update Miss A in the two weeks it took for them to 
notify her that the account had been confirmed as fraudulent. Miss A was clearly 
worried about this and how the fraud may have happened. So, I thought this wouldve 
added to the level of worry and distress Miss A experienced as well. 
HSBC failed to correct the status of Miss As genuine accounts until October 2020 
after theyd been impacted by the fraudulent application. I thought the amount of time 
it took to also resolve this issue wouldve caused additional concern for Miss A too. 
For these reasons  I provisionally found that HSBC should pay Miss A £150 on top of what 
it had already offered. That meant the total amount of compensation would be £300. 
Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC confirmed it would accept my proposed redress.
Miss A acknowledged my provisional decision but asked me to consider increasing the 
amount HSBC should pay to £500 in total. She explained the whole chain of events had 
been a very draining experience for her. And on the back of this scenario, she had to pay for 
an account with CIFAS, as she hadnt heard anything from HSBC at that time. She also 
incurred additional expenses by paying to have her post re-routed in order to keep this 
secure and also to do various checks with the credit report providers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think that my proposed total redress of £300 is fair and reasonable on 
this occasion. I completely understand the actions Miss A has told me she took after this 
incident. I think they were all sensible things to do  especially as it seems someone may 
have obtained her personal data  as thats what was used to make the application to 
HSBC. 
But when considering what I think is fair and reasonable, Ive had to think about how HSBCs 
actions made things worse. With this in mind, I dont think all the expenses Miss A incurred 
are something that HSBC needs to compensate Miss A for here. Theres no evidence HSBC 
were responsible for the fraudster getting Miss As details in the first place  so I think her 
data must have somehow been available externally. So, whilst I agree HSBC couldve done 
more at the time of the application  it was the fraudster(s) who were able to obtain enough 
data in order to make the application in the first place. And that was what Miss A was trying 
to protect herself from in the actions she took, in case those fraudsters tried it again.
Miss A was told in the letter she received two weeks after shed reported the incident to 
HSBC, that CIFAS had been notified of what had happened as well  which was a 
reasonable step for HSBC to have taken. I do appreciate Miss A wouldve been incredibly 
worried about what was happening. But as HSBC had notified CIFAS themselves, and its 
first offer of £100 compensation was expected to include any similar expenses Miss A had 
incurred, I dont think it needs to pay her anything more here.  
I appreciate how upset Miss A was with HSBCs handling of matters. And as Ive already 
mentioned in my provisional decision, I do agree that there were some things which the bank 
didnt handle particularly well. As a result of Miss As complaint, I am told the bank is taking 
steps to change its processes to improve things for other customers in the future. But in 
terms of the fair amount of compensation for how this all made Miss A feel, I still think the 
amount I suggested in my provisional decision is fair.
So, Im adopting the findings in my provisional decision in full in this final decision. And I will 
require that HSBC pay an additional £150 on top of whats already been offered  bringing 
the total compensation amount to £300.  
My final decisionIts my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require that HSBC UK Bank Plc pay Miss A 
total compensation of £300 for the way that they have made her feel, less any amount that 
they have paid to her already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman