DRN-3752730
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard have declined his 
application for a credit card.
What happened
Earlier this year, Mr T applied for a credit card but his application was declined. Barclaycard 
explained his current levels of borrowings and expenditure compared to his income indicated 
that he if took out further credit, he may find it difficult to keep up with repayments in the 
future.
Mr T contacted Barclaycard as he believed theyd made a mistake due to the reason given 
about his borrowings. He explained he didnt have any borrowings which was confirmed in 
his credit reports from three different credit reference agencies. 
Barclaycard reiterated their reasons for declining Mr Ts application. They explained they 
couldnt expand on their reasoning any further and they werent obligated to discuss their 
lending criteria. 
Unhappy with this, Mr T raised a formal complaint with Barclaycard on 9 May 2022. When he 
didnt receive a response, he referred his complaint to our service. He felt the reasons 
Barclaycard gave to reject his credit card application were fabricated as he didnt have any 
borrowings. He believes Barclaycard are discriminating against him due to his age.
Our investigator said that Barclaycard had completed affordability checks in line with their 
lending criteria and had treated Mr T fairly. He also said that Barclaycard had provided their 
rationale for declining the application. So, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard have explained that they check applications against information that they hold 
internally through their records and externally from credit reference agencies. They also take 
into account the declared income and factor in expenditure such as utility costs, priority bills 
and general living expenses as well as any credit commitments as shown on the applicants 
credit file.
As part of the affordability assessment, Barclaycard have said they look at borrowing and 
expenditure as a whole to estimate a monthly disposable income. And they would decline an 
application, if the information indicates that the applicant wont be left with enough monthly 
disposable income in line with their lending criteria. 
Barclaycard are entitled to use their commercial judgement on how to operate their 
business, this includes setting their lending criteria and risk appetite. Our service isnt able to 
interfere with legitimate commercial decisions.
Ive looked at the information Barclaycard reviewed in reaching their decision on Mr Ts 
application. Based on this, I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclaycard to have 
concerns about Mr Ts ability to sustainably repay a credit card debt. 
Ultimately, wed expect responsible lenders to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure a borrower can afford to repay any credit in a sustainable manner. 
Barclaycard completed these checks and felt that if an account were to be opened, Mr T 
may have found it difficult to keep up with the repayments. So, I cant agree Barclaycard 
treated Mr T unfairly by declining his application.
I sympathise with Mr Ts frustration as hes provided his credit file which shows he hasnt got 
any borrowing and manages his finances well. I also understand he wanted the credit card 
for the consumer protection it offers, so I appreciate his disappointment. 
We cant share the information Barclaycard have provided our service to demonstrate how 
they reached their lending decision on Mr Ts application as its commercially sensitive. And 
divulging information of this nature is likely to compromise Barclaycards assessment 
process. I hope its reassuring for Mr T to know that the checks completed by Barclaycard 
didnt note any borrowings. But this doesnt mean they were wrong to decline his application. 
Barclaycard explained to Mr T that they reviewed his borrowing levels and expenses against 
his income when making their decision. I dont think this meant that their decision was based 
solely on Mr Ts borrowings. So, while Mr T has shown that he doesnt have any borrowing, 
he does have outgoings, such as bills and other expenses. 
Mr T feels Barclaycard have discriminated against him due to his age. But Ive not seen any 
evidence to suggest this was the case. 
Overall, Im satisfied Barclaycard have applied their lending criteria fairly in assessing Mr Ts 
application which, as explained above, theyre entitled to do and unfortunately, he didnt 
meet their requirements on an affordability basis.
Barclaycard gave Mr T the primary reason for declining his application which is all theyre 
obliged to do. We dont expect them to provide detailed information about why they 
specifically declined Mr Ts application as information of his nature is commercially sensitive.
That said, I think Barclaycard couldve been clearer about their reference to Mr Ts borrowing 
levels in their response of 15 April 2022 and tailored it to address his concerns. I can also 
understand why this miscommunication may have led Mr T to believe that Barclaycard had 
made a mistake. I think Barclaycard shouldve done more to clarify this avoiding any stress, 
frustration and disappointment Mr T was caused.
Mr T also wrote to Barclaycard on 9 May 2022 to raise a complaint. He has provided us with 
proof to show Barclaycard received this letter on 11 May 2022, but they failed to reply to him. 
I agree this wouldve added to his frustration and annoyance. 
Taking into account the impact of the customer service issues on Mr T, I think Barclaycard 
should pay Mr T £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. A summary of my findings on this complaint were shared with both parties prior to me 
issuing this final decision. Barclaycard agreed with my recommendations, but Mr T didnt 
accept.
I know Mr T feels very strongly about his complaint, in particular that Barclaycard have lied 
to him. But I hope he feels reassured after an independent review that Barclaycard have 
treated him fairly in assessing his application. 
I remain satisfied that £100 compensation for the customer service issues is fair and 
reasonable, and I dont require Barclaycard to do anything else to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Mr T £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman