DRN-4004739
The complaint
Mrs M complains mistakes by Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) in arranging her buy to let      
re-mortgage meant the transaction wasnt completed. 
Where I refer to BOI, I include the conveyancers acting on their behalf.
What happened
In 2006 Mrs M took out a buy to let (BTL) mortgage with BOI. She borrowed around £68,000 
on an interest only basis over a term of 15 years.
In August 2021, as the term was coming to an end, Mrs M applied to extend the mortgage 
for ten years with a new two-year fixed interest rate product. BOI wrote to Mrs M explaining 
the process that would follow. And soon after that they sent Mrs M a mortgage offer. 
Mrs M let BOI know in early September the address in the offer wrongly showed her home 
address rather than the BTL property she was borrowing against. BOI issued an 
amendment. Mrs M understood she didnt need to take any further action after that.
BOI instructed solicitors to act on their behalf in relation to the re-mortgage. The solicitors 
sent many letters to Mrs M from around late August onwards. But Mrs M didnt receive them. 
The solicitors asked BOI to extend the mortgage offer in around October, which they did 
informally. But when BOI didnt hear back from the solicitors about completion after that, the 
offer lapsed in March 2022.
BOI then wrote to Mrs M letting her know the term of her existing mortgage had ended. She 
spoke to them in mid-April and explained shed understood the re-mortgage shed been 
arranging the previous August had gone through. Shed continued to make monthly 
mortgage payments. And although theyd changed, she thought that was because the new 
mortgage was in place.
BOI said shed need to reapply. Unfortunately, since interest rates had gone up, Mrs Ms 
application failed on grounds of affordability. 
Mrs M complained to BOI about what had happened. Shed invested in the BTL property and 
taken on a new tenant on the understanding shed secured a new ten-year mortgage with 
BOI. She was unhappy theyd been sending letters to the wrong address, concerned about a 
data breach, and disappointed she couldnt now re-mortgage with BOI. To put things right, 
Mrs M wanted BOI to honour the offer theyd made in August 2021.
BOI paid Mrs M £50 by way of compensation for the mistake theyd made in putting her 
home address in the offer theyd issued in August 2021. But they said her application hadnt 
completed since shed failed to return the relevant paperwork; theyd been writing to her at 
the correct address; and they felt she should have been in contact with them if shed been 
concerned about the progress of her application. 
Mrs M didnt accept BOIs response, so she brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt think BOI were responsible for Mrs Ms 
application not being processed. BOIs solicitors had tried to contact Mrs M several times at 
the right address. Whilst Mrs M hadnt got the letters, BOI werent to blame for that. The 
mortgage offer had said Mrs M wouldnt be bound by the terms until shed signed the 
mortgage deed. 
Since Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators view, her complaints been passed to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs Ms strength of feeling about what happened. Whilst I think there are things 
BOI could have done better, after careful consideration, Ive come to the same outcome as 
our investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
Im satisfied that the documents Ill mention below were clear, fair and not misleading, as Id 
expect them to be in line with Financial Conduct Authority requirements. And given their 
importance, Id expect Mrs M to have read them carefully to ensure she understood them 
and raised any questions with BOI if anything was unclear.
BOI wrote to Mrs M, at her correspondence address, on around 23 August 2021 setting out 
the process for the re-mortgage. I understand Mrs M got that letter. If she did I think she 
ought reasonably to have understood shed need to complete and return the questionnaire 
and mortgage deed it enclosed for her application to complete.
Even if she didnt get that letter, Mrs Ms confirmed she got BOIs mortgage offer. She spoke 
to BOI in early September to let them know theyd made a mistake in the offer, referring to 
her correspondence address as the property to be mortgaged rather than the BTL property 
she was re-mortgaging. Although Mrs M recalls BOI saying she wouldnt need to take any 
further action, I appreciate memories can fade over time, and having listened to calls, I dont 
think thats quite what happened.
BOI apologised for their mistake in relation to the property address and said Mrs M should 
receive a new offer pack within a week. In fact, BOI issued an amendment letter which      
Mrs Ms confirmed she received. A note on the letter said she didnt need to sign that 
document to confirm acceptance of the amendment. But I dont think it was reasonable for 
Mrs M to think she didnt need to take any further action at all.
The offer BOI sent Mrs M was part of a package of documents. They made clear Mrs M had 
to sign and return the form of acceptance. I havent seen a signed acceptance form and BOI 
say they didnt receive one. Im not persuaded Mrs M sent it back even if she recalls doing 
so.
Even if Im wrong about that, the offer also set out that the mortgage wouldnt complete until 
the mortgage deed had been signed. And the covering letter explained other documents 
needed to be provided such as evidence of buildings insurance, an investment property 
declaration and a direct debit mandate. I think Mrs M ought reasonably to have understood 
there were various actions she needed to take before her application could complete. 
I note Mrs Ms concerns that the letters the solicitors sent to Mrs M were created after the 
event, given her understanding BOI had the wrong contact details for her on file. And Ive no 
reason to doubt Mrs M would have responded if shed got the letters. But BOI confirmed they had the right address when Mrs M spoke to them in April 2021. And since the letters were 
correctly addressed Ive no reason to think they werent sent to the right place. 
It would have been good practice for BOI or their solicitors to have tried to contact Mrs M by 
other means when she didnt reply. And its surprising BOI didnt follow up with their solicitors 
when they failed to explain the delay in moving to completion. But, on balance, I dont think it 
would be fair to hold BOI responsible for the application failing when Mrs M didnt return the 
appropriate documentation.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mrs M will be disappointed, I dont uphold 
her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman