DRN-2821540
The complaint
Miss C complains that a car she acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement (HPA)with
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) wasnt fit for purpose. She wanted the car
to be repaired or to be able to reject it
What happened
Miss C says she took out an HPA with BMWFS in May 2017 for a three-year-old car with
26, 757 miles on the clock. She says the car broke down in September 2020 at which point
she says she was advised that the timing chain had failed prematurely. She says she has
only driven the car 22,000 miles, so doesnt feel the car was of satisfactory quality when she
got it.
BMWFS said that as the issue arose more than three years after Miss C had the car the
onus was on her to show there was a point of sale issue for which it was responsible, but
she hadnt done so.
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
There was no dispute  a significant repair was needed with Miss Cs car, at a likely 
repair cost of approximately £4,000.
I agreed with BMWFS that as the issue arose more than months after Miss had the 
car (three years after) the onus was on her to show there was a fault present or 
developing at the point of sale.
The diagnostic report from when the car broke down in September 2020 advised that 
the timing chain failure was premature given the low mileage and no evidence of 
outside influence. Unfortunately, the report didnt state that the issue was present or 
developing at the point of sale. And it noted it didnt have the benefit of seeing the 
service history for the car.
The report correctly identified the problem but for me to be persuaded that BMWFS 
should cover the cost of the repair I needed something more detailed to conclusively 
show how the fault has arisen and that it hadnt arisen as a result of anything that has 
happened during the time that Miss C has had the car. And that the issue was 
present or developing at the point of sale.
I considered the service history which wasnt very detailed  but it didnt seem to 
indicate any point of sale issues as far as I could tell.
I suggested Miss C had an independent inspection of the car undertaken. And I said 
if it found a point of sale issue, I would take into account the cost of any such report 
in my final decision.
BMWFS made a fair point about car warranties. It was unreasonable to expect there 
will never be any costly faults with cars. Warranties could provide cover for such 
situations. I appreciated Miss C didnt seem to have taken out an extended warranty 
here  that was unfortunate as had she done so it might have covered the cost of this 
repair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 BMWFS hasnt responded to my provisional decision with extra information for me to 
consider. I wouldnt necessarily expect it to do so given my provisional  decision was in its 
favour. But I feel it has had enough time to make any representations  it wanted to make.
Miss C didnt accept my provisional decision and has made several comments for me to 
consider which I will look at in turn.
I appreciate Miss C didnt think she would ever be asked to provide evidence of a point of 
sale issue. As I explained in my provisional decision, we do look for independent evidence of 
such an issue. If  issues arise within the first six months of ownership the onus is on the 
business, and usually it will commission an independent report specifically to look at this. 
These reports are often conclusive.
I did suggest to Miss C in my provisional decision that ,if she arranged for such a report ,I 
would take into account the costs of that report if it found in her favour. Its not unusual to get 
such reports and they are usually very helpful. Miss C has chosen not to do this which is 
unfortunate as it might have given some clarity over the problem, and whose responsibility it 
was to repair.
I dont agree that BMWFS was being unfair in putting the onus on Miss C to prove a point of 
sale issue  our usual approach is that when faults  occur within six months we expect a 
business to investigate  and provide evidence of a point of sale issue or not but when faults 
occur after six months the onus is on the consumer.
I also dont agree its impossible to provide such proof  as I have explained above 
independent reports by qualified engineers can often be very conclusive -clearly the longer 
the fault occurred from the point of sale the harder it might be to evidence but that doesnt 
automatically mean this cant be done.
Miss C has also mentioned some research she says shows the type of engine she has can 
cause catastrophic engine failure without warning which is what she says happened to her 
car. That doesnt necessarily mean that was the cause of Miss Cs problem. 
I appreciate it was disappointing for Miss C that I took a different view to the investigator, but 
when views are issued either side can disagree and ask for an ombudsmans decision. And 
sometimes we dont agree with what the investigators have found. Although our investigator 
found that timing chains should last 80,000 miles that doesnt mean there are occasions 
when they dont. I  thought  BMWFS view that its unrealistic to expect there will never be 
costly faults with cars was a fair one.
With regard to the warranty I do understand Miss Cs point that extended warranties are 
optional. And of course, even if Miss C had taken out an extended warranty, I cant be sure if 
it would have covered the timing chain problem or not.  I dont feel BMWFS were using the 
fact Miss C didnt take out an extended warranty as a defence for the timing chain failing. I 
think it was more an observation that as expensive issues can arise with any car warranties 
can be useful in these situationsFinally, Miss C has said that the diagnostic report she provided did confirm a point of sale 
issue. I have looked back at the information Miss C has given us but as I identified in my 
provisional decision the timing chain was identified as the issue and one report did state its 
failure was premature but none of the information, she provided said the issue would have 
been present or developing at the point of sale.
I appreciate Miss C says she has lost out financially  she has chosen to return her car and 
so has had to have it repaired to meet the terms of her agreement. But in order for me to 
agree with our investigators view and redress I would have to have some reasonable 
evidence that the car was faulty or developing a fault at the point of sale which I simply dont 
feel I have.
Unfortunately, I dont feel Miss C has given any information that leads me to feel I should 
change my provisional view not to uphold her complaint
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman