DRN-2272089
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) wont repair their 
mobile phone under its warranty but, instead, say theyre required to make a second claim 
under their insurance policy.
Where I refer to Assurant, this includes their agents.
For ease of reading, Ill mostly only refer to Mr I.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events. Mr I has the benefit of insurance for his mobile phone 
which includes cover for accidental damage. The cover is provided by Assurant.
In June 2019 Mr I made a claim for damage to his mobile phone. He paid the policy excess 
and Assurant repaired the phone. It was delivered back to him via courier on 15 June 2019. 
On 28 June 2019 Mr I contacted Assurant and said there was an issue with his phone 
following the repair. He said the audio wasnt working correctly and he could hear an echo 
during calls. Assurants repair came with a warranty and so he sent it back to them to be 
fixed. Assurant received the phone again on 29 July 2019. 
Assurant say that when they received the phone, it was damaged. They say there was a 
crack on the rear of the phone which indicated an impact of some sort. They took 
photographs of the phone at the time to record the damage. 
Ultimately, Assurant told Mr I that they wouldnt repair the phone under warranty as it had 
been damaged since they had returned it to him. But if he paid a further excess, they could 
treat it as a new claim and repair the damage. Mr I didnt want to make a new claim and on 
15 August 2019, the phone was returned to him unrepaired. 
Mr I complained. He says the phone wasnt damaged when he posted it back to Assurant. 
He doesnt feel he should have pay another excess to have the issue with the sound on his 
phone repaired. Assurant maintained their position and the matter was referred to our 
service. Ultimately, one of our investigators thought a fair resolution would be for Assurant to 
give Mr I 50% off the claim excess for it to be repaired. 
Assurant disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In September 
2020 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I dont think Mr I took an unreasonably long time to report the audio issue to Assurant 
following the initial repair of his phone. He did this about two weeks after receiving it. I think, 
given the nature of the fault being related to sound quality, he might have thought he had a 
bad line in the first instance. So, I can understand why it took this time to report it to 
Assurant. 
The starting point here is to consider whether Assurant fulfilled their obligations under the 
policy in relation to the initial repair. Mr I submitted his phone for a repair due to a cracked 
screen. When his phone arrived back with him, the screen was repaired but there was the 
issue he described with the audio. Mr Is testimony is that Assurant hadnt, at that point, 
provided him with a repaired phone that was functioning correctly. In these circumstances, 
Id expect Assurant to consider repairing the phone either under the warranty they provide or 
as a continuation of the initial claim. 
Assurant however have said that when they received the phone back, it was damaged. Ive 
seen a picture of the phone and its clear there is a large crack on the rear of it. I would 
agree that this supports the phone has been subject to some kind of impact. What is in 
dispute is when this damage took place. Mr I says the phone was undamaged when he sent 
it off. He also points out that he re-used Assurants protective packaging to avoid damage in 
transit. 
I think it would only be fair for to hold Assurant responsible for the damage to the phone, if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that they are responsible for it. 
Assurant have explained that they deal with many phone repairs every day and their 
engineers are monitored when receiving deliveries. And that they have a process whereby if 
they cause damage to a phone, they provide a replacement. They also photographed the 
phone on the day they received it to evidence the damage. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I dont think I can fairly conclude that the damage to the 
phone was caused whilst it was in the custody of Assurant. I think its more likely that it 
arrived to them damaged. I find Assurants explanation of their processes and the 
photographs taken at the time to be persuasive evidence. 
As such, I dont think the stance Assurant took in relation to this claim / complaint was 
unreasonable. This is because I dont think they could reasonably be expected to ascertain 
whether the audio issue was a result of a fault with the phone or as a consequence of the 
damage. I think the fact that further damage had occurred prejudiced their position.
The policy makes clear that an excess is payable for each claim. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Assurant to insist on this prior to conducting a further repair. As Mr I didnt 
want this, the phone was returned to him unrepaired, which is what Id expect in these 
circumstances. 
I appreciate my intended decision will be disappointing for Mr I. I can never say with 100% 
certainty how the further damage occurred, I have to make a decision, considering the 
evidence, as to what I think it most likely to have happened. For the reasons Ive explained I 
dont think Assurant have acted unfairly in the circumstances and Im not intending to tell 
them to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Assurant responded to my provisional decision to say they had nothing further to add. Mr I 
didnt respond. Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side provided any further evidence or comments for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman