DRN-3265059
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited MBFS refused to 
compensate her for costs incurred due to a faulty car.
What happened
In September 2020 Mrs H acquired a second-hand car costing £16,780, funded in part by a 
hire purchase agreement with MBFS. It was some three years old and had covered 29,708 
miles. 
On taking it home Mrs H discovered the windscreen washers didnt work and the wipers 
were worn. She also says the number plate was covered and so the car wasnt road legal. 
These issues were fixed some three weeks later.
In June 2021 when the car had covered 38,278 miles the engine management light (EML) 
came on. The exhaust gas recirculation valve was found not to be working. This was 
repaired under warranty, but the EML came on again and the car was repaired again on 28 
July. This time the actuator motor/pressure cell, intake port had shut off.
The car was taken back on 11 August with the EML coming on again. The gas recirculation 
valve was replaced again. Subsequent to this Mrs H says she has encountered problems 
and the EML has come on. She says that the car has been taken into the garage, which is 
not local to her, eight times.
Mrs H complained to MBFS. It said the car had been repaired under warranty and she had 
been kept mobile throughout. It also said that the dealer had offered her a free MOT and an 
extended warranty. Mrs H said that she had the MOT done by another garage and the 
warranty was invalid as the car didnt have full manufacturers service history.
She brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Mrs H had asked that she be paid £2,712 
to compensate her for costs she had incurred and for the inconvenience she had suffered. 
Our investigator noted the first significant problem arose after some nine months had 
elapsed and as such she couldnt say the car had been faulty at the point of sale. She said 
that the car was several years old and a degree of wear and tear was to be expected. She 
noted that while the car had been booked in on multiple occasions it wasnt clear it had 
always been taken in.  
She said the only issue now seemed to be the car was losing power when changing gear, 
but she didnt have evidence that was present at the point of sale. As for issues with the 
warranty this had no be funded by MBFS and so it was not something this service could 
consider. 
Mrs H didnt agree and said the car wasnt road legal and had been returned to the dealer 
within two days. She said some of the mileage had been done when the car was left with the 
dealer. More recently she has told us the EML has come on again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
MBFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The question I have to address is whether the car was faulty at the point of sale. If issues 
arose after nine moths which were not present at the point of sale I cannot uphold this 
complaint. Firstly, I should explain that minor issues such as the windscreen washer not 
working and the wipers being worn do not constitute faults which would allow me to uphold 
this complaint. These are minor, albeit irritating matters which do not mean the car wasnt fit 
for purpose.
The first significant issue was the faulty gas recirculation valve. While some of this type of 
valve may last for 100,000 miles, other may last for only 30,000 miles. So it is quite possible 
that the failure was matter of wear and tear. I appreciate this was unfortunate, but I have 
seen nothing that would allow me to conclude that it was faulty when the car was sold.
I gather actuator pressure release valve lasts about five years and while this one failed after 
some four years I dont believe that allows me to say that this was a fundamental fault which 
was present at the point of sale.
I appreciate the EML has come on more recently but it can indicate a range of problems and 
I cannot say why it has lit up. I realise that Mrs Hs experience has been less than 
satisfactory, but that does not mean I can uphold her complaint. I acknowledged she lives 
some way from the dealer and the visits are time consuming, but that is not the responsibility 
of MBFS. Nor is it responsible for the warranty or the levels of service provided by the 
dealer.
I recognise that Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision, but I do not have the evidence 
which would allow me to conclude the car was faulty when sold.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman