DRN-3416306
The complaint
Mr C has complained The Royal Bank of Scotland plc treated him badly causing him real 
distress when questioning him about two payments hed been trying to make.
What happened
Mr C had recently opened an account with RBS. Hed got his card reader to enable online 
payments. He made two payments of £5,000 (within RBSs payment guidelines) to buy a 
car.
Shortly afterwards Mr C received a phone call. He was wary of speaking to the person whod 
called him and the call was ended. Mr C went to his branch and spoke to RBSs fraud 
department to explain why hed authorised these two payments. The payments were 
processed.
Mr C was extremely dissatisfied. He felt hed spent considerable time and money as well as 
being humiliated by his treatment. He complained to RBS as well as closing his account.
RBS apologised for his treatment and told him they would pay him £50. Mr C felt this was 
inadequate. He was also concerned that RBS culture led them to treating their customers 
this way. He brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator agreed that RBSs offer was inadequate and asked them to pay a further 
£100. RBS agreed but Mr C felt £500 was more appropriate.
His complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly theres no doubt RBSs treatment of Mr C  the persistent questions and attitude over 
the phone  was wrong. RBS has apologised for that. They were right to do so.
What I have to decide is what level of compensation is appropriate. 
Putting things right
I believe a total of £150 is fair and reasonable. My reasoning for this is that all of these 
actions took part in a short period of time on 31 August. 
Mr C made two payments in the morning around 10:30. These were blocked. Mr C was in 
branch by mid-afternoon. I appreciate he drove some miles to get back to his branch as hed 
been elsewhere when the first call came through from RBS. 
Even though Mr C was on the call in the branch for about an hour, at the end of this his 
payments were authorised, processed and paid.
I appreciate what Mr C has said about the time and money he spent, as well as the 
humiliation he suffered. But overall I believe £150 in total is fair for this. This didnt last for a 
prolonged period which I would need to have seen if I was to ask RBS to pay £500 as Mr C 
has requested.
I dont wish to belittle Mr Cs feelings about what happened. I can see he took the action he 
felt was appropriate. He closed his account and has ended his banking relationship with 
RBS.
Mr C has asked our service to consider whether what he suffered was indicative of the 
culture of RBS. As our investigator explained, thats not our services role. Im looking at the 
impact on Mr C and what I think is fair and reasonable when looking at his experience.
I have confirmed the compensation payable as £150 as RBS did not previously pay Mr C 
£50 as they said they would. I suspect this is because by the time theyd decided to pay this 
amount, Mr C no longer held an account with them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct The Royal Bank of Scotland plc to 
pay £150 for the trouble caused to Mr C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman