DRN-2150689
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office (PO) didnt credit his
account with cash deposits he made.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is known to both parties. So, I dont intend to set it 
out in detail here. In summary, Mr Z claims several cash deposits he made into his PO 
savings account are missing. He says a certain member of staff in his local branch (which 
has since closed) failed to deposit his money into his PO savings account as hed requested. 
He says on each occasion the member of staff also told him they couldnt provide him with a 
deposit receipt. Mr Z is unhappy that PO wont provide him with a refund for the missing 
cash deposits. He also complains of PO not responding to his letters.
Ultimately, PO have relied on a provision within the Payment Services Regulations 2009 
which only entitles a customer to redress for unauthorised  or incorrectly executed  
transactions if the dispute is raised within 13 months of the original transaction. This 
provision has been adopted into the terms and conditions of the savings account Mr Z holds 
with PO. As Mr Zs dispute was raised more than 13 months after the allegedly incorrectly 
executed deposit transactions, PO have said he isnt entitled to any form of refund or 
redress. It also said it responded to Mr Zs letters that were received in 2017 and 2019.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. In short, she didnt 
think that it would be reasonable to ask PO to provide a refund in the absence of any 
evidence which showed when these cash deposits were made and for how much. She was 
satisfied that PO responded to Mr Zs letters in 2017 and 2019 and had not seen any 
evidence of any other correspondence Mr Z had sent to PO during that period. 
Mr Z didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
case. He made the following points in response to the investigators outcome;
- Mr Z says the investigator was wrong to state hed not provided dates for the 
disputed cash deposits. He said he had set out in his correspondence to our service 
dated 31 December 2019 that the first missing deposit was for a sum of £200, paid in 
at his local branch sometime in December 2012 and the third missing deposit was for 
a sum of £300, also paid in at his local branch in July 2014.
- Mr Z still maintained several letters hed sent in 2016 and 2017 had been ignored. 
He says the only response he received from PO was in 2019.
- Mr Z understands there to have been a problem with the POs computer systems. He 
feels this may be of some relevance.
- Mr Z says his total loss is £750. But as the member of staff at his local branch failed 
to provide him with receipts and the investigator had erred by not acknowledging hed 
provided an exact date and amount for the third missing deposit. He thinks at the 
very least, he should receive a refund of £300.
On 11 November 2021, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold it and Ill explain why.
Firstly, I appreciate Mr Z would like an in-depth investigation and explanation into what has 
happened. But its worth noting that we are an informal dispute resolution service. My role 
here isnt to establish exactly what has happened. Presently, all I need to reach a decision 
on is whether or not it is fair and reasonable, in the circumstances of Mr Zs complaint, for 
PO to decline to investigate and refund the alleged missing cash deposits.
From what Ive seen, it is clear, there has been variability in Mr Zs recollection of dates and 
sums disputed. Understandably so, as the events being complained of, span across several 
years  going as far back as 2012. I too recognise and am very sorry to hear of the loss of 
Mr Zs close family member. As well as the health concerns and difficulties that he has 
personally experienced over the preceding years. Nevertheless, these inconsistencies 
naturally raise a question about the reliability of Mr Zs testimony. Though I dont doubt Mr Z 
is honest in his belief about what has happened, I must give consideration to the possibility 
that he may be mistaken in his recollection of certain events. So, in the absence of any proof 
of deposits, where available, Ive relied on the documentary evidence from the time of events 
in question, along with what Mr Z has said, to try and build the most accurate picture of the 
timeline of events.
Whilst a specific date has not been provided, Mr Z has told our service the first missing 
credit was deposited sometime in December 2012 and was for a sum of £200.
Mr Z has not provided a specific time or amount for the second deposit. However, having 
reviewed the evidence I think, on balance, its most likely that the second missing credit was 
deposited sometime in April 2013 and was for a sum of £250. I say this because, Mr Z has 
provided a copy of a letter dated 13 May 2013 which hed sent to the PO. The letter was a 
request for PO to send him his annual statement (which is usually produced and issued 
around that time). The letter also references his concern that he was not provided with a 
cash receipt for a deposit of £250 which he says hed paid into his account when he visited 
his local branch the month before. Ive reviewed the transaction history on Mr Zs account 
and there doesnt appear to be any cash deposits showing for April 2013. This reasonably 
leads me to believe, that on balance, this was the second payment that Mr Z alleges wasnt 
credited to his account.
Mr Z has told our service that hed deposited the third missing amount of £300 on 
28 July 2014.
So, whilst theres several pieces of correspondence between Mr Z and PO and Mr Z and our 
service in which he has indicated different dates between 2012 and 2015 for the disputed 
transactions; and he has cited differing amounts for his loss, which range between £750 and 
£1,000. The above suggests, most likely, Mr Zs total alleged loss is £750, with the first 
disputed transaction taking place in December 2012, the second in April 2013 and the last 
on 28 July 2014.
The relevant regulation that applies in the circumstances of Mr Zs complaint is the 
Payment Services Regulations 2009 (PSRs).Section 59 of the PSRs says:
(1)A payment service user is entitled to redress only if it notifies the payment service
provider without undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 months after the debit date...
(2) Where the payment service provider has failed to provide or to make available
information concerning the payment transactionsthe payment service user is entitled to
redress under the regulations referred to in paragraph (1) notwithstanding that the payment
service user has failed to notify the payment service provider as mentioned in that
paragraph.
This means that Mr Z had 13 months from the date of each missing cash deposit to raise it 
with PO. In Mr Zs case, this meant that hed have to have raised the first incorrectly 
executed payment by January 2014; the second by May 2014; and the third by August 2015.
Im satisfied the first contact PO received from Mr Z raising concerns about missing funds 
wasnt until several years later in May 2017, which is significantly beyond the 13-month time 
limit.
Whilst Ive taken on board Mr Zs comments that he had written to PO several times and 
been ignored  Ive seen no evidence of any letters that were sent or received by PO relating 
to missing credits prior to May 2017. I have seen a letter dated May 2013, but Mr Z has 
confirmed that at this point he was not aware of the missing credits, he was simply making a 
request for his annual statement to check that the money hed deposited had credited his 
account.
The two letters Mr Z sent to PO in May 2017 cover;
-his worry that a certain member of staff in his local branch (which has since closed) 
failed to deposit cash hed paid in over the counter into his PO savings account;
-his concern that he wasnt provided with receipts;
-his fear his money may have been stolen. 
Mr Z asked PO to investigate and review deposits made across 2011  2016. At this stage 
he had not provided PO with a specific date and/or amount for each missing credit. He also 
stated that he found his annual statements to be unhelpful as they didnt show the dates and 
amounts of money going in. The letters did not contain any inference to having written to or 
the matter being raised with PO before  which I wouldve ordinarily expected to see had 
Mr Z raised it and not received a response.
Ive considered the point Mr Z has made about only receiving statements yearly. Mr Zs 
account is a savings account and not one he often uses. So I think it ought to have been 
apparent to Mr Z from his statements that the disputed cash deposits had not been credited 
to his account. The statement covering the time period of the last disputed transaction was 
issued in May 2015  yet Mr Z didnt raise the dispute until May 2017, which is two years 
later. I also note that Mr Z wouldve received a statement in between that time in May 2016. 
Whilst I note Mr Z has mentioned he has had long standing issues with his postal service, 
Im satisfied, on balance, that he did receive his statements as he has referred to them in his 
letter to PO in May 2017 as being unhelpful and if he hadnt received them I think this is 
something he would have raised with PO (as he did in 2013).Ive reviewed the relevant yearly statements which were sent to Mr Zs registered home 
address. I can see each statement clearly shows the balance of the account, and a small 
interest credit and tax debit. The basis of Mr Zs dispute was that his balance ought to have 
been somewhere around £7,750 to £7,900. I think it is reasonable to expect with an account 
with so few transactions on it, that Mr Z would notice sooner that the cash deposits he says 
he had made had not been applied to his account and that the balance of his account was 
below that which he expected.
Mr Z has expressed that he has had a very difficult time with a lot going on over the last few 
years. Ive considered the various reasons Mr Z has provided but Im still not persuaded that 
any of those reasons means that its unfair for PO to rely on the relevant regulations or its 
terms and conditions when declining to investigate and provide a refund for the alleged 
missing cash deposits. And I think Mr Z has had ample opportunity to raise a claim sooner 
than he did. Ultimately, PO made statements available and the timescale in which to bring a 
claim is contained within the terms and conditions of Mr Zs account. I know Mr Z will be 
disappointed but overall, I dont think the position PO have taken is unreasonable. 
Part of Mr Zs complaint relates to his dissatisfaction with the service he has received from 
PO  specifically his belief that they ignored the letters hed written to them before his letter 
of complaint in March 2019. I appreciate Mr Z says he wrote to PO several times between 
2017 and 2019 but beyond his testimony the only documentary evidence of correspondence 
between Mr Z and PO Ive seen is his letters in May 2017 about the missing deposits; and 
his complaint letter in March 2019.
Im satisfied having seen POs records that they did receive Mr Zs correspondence in 
May 2017 and attempted to contact him by phone. No response was received, so they wrote 
to Mr Z in June 2017 explaining they would need proof of deposit and the precise dates of 
the disputed transactions. To assist Mr Z, they also sent a listing of all transactional data on 
his savings account since 2013. PO has provided a copy of the letter it sent to Mr Z in 
June 2017. It is correctly addressed to Mr Zs registered address, so Im satisfied PO did 
appropriately respond to Mr Zs letters. It appears Mr Z didnt receive POs letter. Its quite 
possible, given the issues Mr Z says he has had over the years with his post that the letter 
didnt reach his address. But PO couldnt have possibly known that, and it would not be fair 
or reasonable to hold them responsible for any postal service failures or the possible actions 
of a nuisance tenant who has allegedly been responsible for other missing/damaged post.
Mr Z also made several submissions about the possible impact of errors with POs computer 
systems, CCTV and other missing credit claims against his local branch. However, as Ive 
concluded that Mr Z didnt raise his claim within the 13-month time limit, and PO are not 
required to investigate and provide a refund. I dont need to make a finding in relation to 
these matters as it doesnt make a difference to the outcome of this complaint.
Overall, Ive considered whether there are any grounds  on a fair and reasonable basis  
for me to consider that regulation 59 of PSRs shouldnt apply to Mr Zs situation. But I 
havent seen anything which leads me to conclude there is a reasonable basis for doing so. 
Im also satisfied PO appropriately responded to Mr Zs letters.
PO agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
Mr Z didnt agree with my provisional decision and questions whether his appeal has been 
reviewed. He says the following issues have not been addressed: 
- deceit/negligence of the member of staff in his local PO branch, specifically their 
failure to provide him with deposit receipts; and 
- the possible impact, on his loss, of the known PO computer system issues. 
He also expressed his worry about our service not investigating and turning a blind eye to 
whether there were other reports of a similar nature against the implicated PO branch. Mr Z 
says he suspects bias.   
Mr Z thinks timing is a weak justification and one he does not accept. He makes the 
following points: 
- His condition(s) have not been taken into consideration.
- He was expected to realise something was wrong before he in fact did.
- He contacted our service within 12 months of date of knowledge.
- The timing issue was addressed by a member of staff at our service in 2019 (when 
the complaint was brought to us) and his case was accepted under the given 
circumstances. 
- The investigator who considered his complaint made no issue of the timing. 
- Mr Z finds it suspicious that Ive changed my mind as I told him during a telephone 
call that timing was not an issue in his case.  
So, based on the above Mr Z says, in his view, excuses and reasons have been sought to 
not award him his loss.  
Further, Mr Z says in 2017 when he wrote to PO he was suffering with health issues and 
was still unsure as he had several missing statements. He maintains that he did not receive 
a response from PO. Had he done; he would not have written to them again and would have 
brought the matter to our service or pursued it through the courts in 2017. 
As both parties have now responded to my provisional findings it is appropriate to move to 
the final stage of our process. I will respond to Mr Z's points in my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, much of what Mr Z has said in response to my provisional decision has 
already been explored and explained in my provisional findings which I have outlined above 
and form part of this final decision. 
I appreciate that Mr Z feels very strongly that his complaint should be upheld and naturally 
he is disappointed with the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. But as Ive not 
been provided anything new (that is relevant) to consider, Ive not been persuaded to alter 
my conclusions. Firstly, Id like to assure Mr Z that Ive considered this complaint independently and without 
bias to any party involved. Ive read carefully and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties. If Ive not commented on something thats been said its not 
because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of Mr Zs complaint  
which is that PO has not investigated his missing cash deposits claim; has failed to provide a 
refund of the loss he says he has sustained and ignored his letters. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to either party, but merely reflects my informal role in deciding what a fair and 
reasonable outcome is. And whilst I understand that Mr Z would like everything investigated 
and commented on  that isnt something that I feel is necessary to do. The purpose of my 
decision is simply to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them  not to provide 
an answer for every question raised.  
But I think it would be helpful to clarify that there is a difference in the time limits that apply to 
making a complaint and bringing it to our service, and the time limits under the PSRs which 
apply to unauthorised  or incorrectly executed  transaction claims. So, Mr Z hasnt been 
provided with incorrect information. His complaint that PO have not refunded or investigated 
his missing cash deposits and have ignored his letters has been brought to our service 
within the time limits that enable it to fall within our jurisdiction. But the issue is that his 
claim has been raised with PO more than 13 months after the date of the original 
transactions. So for the reasons that Ive explained in my provisional decision I dont think 
PO relying on reg 59 of the PSRs or the terms and conditions of Mr Zs account when 
reaching its decision to not investigate and provide a refund is unreasonable or unfair.  
I note Mr Z says in 2017 he was suffering with health issues and was still unsure of the 
missing deposits as he had several missing statements. But Ive already addressed these 
issues in my provisional decision, so I dont intend to repeat at length what Ive already said. 
But ultimately, on balance, I think Mr Z did receive his statements and reasonably had the 
opportunity to raise a claim sooner. 
Mr Z also hasnt said anything new, that I havent already considered and commented on in 
my provisional decision in relation to him not receiving POs letter in 2017. Of course, I 
accept its entirely possible that Mr Z didnt get POs letter. But Im satisfied PO did send a 
letter to Mr Z in June 2017. And in any event, this still wouldnt change the outcome of this 
complaint as Mr Z hadnt raised his claim within 13 months of the original transactions and 
PO hadnt failed to provide or to make available information (statements) concerning the 
payment transactions.  
I consider Mr Zs complaint about POs branch staffs negligence in failing to provide him 
with cash deposit receipts intrinsically linked to his disputed transactions claim. As Mr Z 
says, but for this negligence he would not be struggling to prove his loss. Ultimately, what 
Mr Z wants is for PO to investigate and refund the loss he believes he has sustained due to 
the acts or omissions of the member of staff at his local PO branch. Likewise, concerns 
relating to other possible like claims or the impact of PO computer system errors, would also 
form part of an investigation into the validity of Mr Zs missing cash deposits claim, which 
under the terms of his savings account PO does not need to investigate as he isnt entitled to 
any form of refund or redress as his claim was raised more than 13 months after the dates of 
the disputed deposit transactions.  
Id also like to note that Mr Z has suggested that a particular PO employee might have acted 
dishonestly. He has shared that he fears his funds may have been stolen. If Mr H feels that a 
crime has taken place, he should report that to the police. Im confident PO will co-operate 
with any police investigation.Although Ive thought about everything Mr Z has said, Ive not been persuaded to alter my 
position on the matter. Im aware Mr Z will be unhappy with my decision. However, he 
doesnt have to accept this decision and may pursue this matter through other avenues 
should he wish to do so, including in court, subject to any relevant time limits. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to do anything further to 
resolve Mr Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2020.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman