DRN-3060712
The complaint
Mrs H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) did a credit search.
What happened
Mrs H entered an IVA (Individual Voluntary Arrangement) in 2013 and was released from it 
in 2019. She had a HSBC basic bank account. In January 2021 she applied for this to be to 
be upgraded to a full current account. This was declined due to an insolvency marker 
showing on an old ISA. On 10 February 2021, she showed HSBC her insolvency completion 
certificate to HSBC. On 24 February 2021, the current account application was submitted 
again and rejected again. It showed a credit search had been done. On 2 April 2021, HSBC 
wrote to Mrs H to say her application had been declined.
Mrs H complained. She said she was told that the application would go through once the ISA 
inhibit marker was removed, but then found out that she was rejected because of a marker 
for an old credit card debt. HSBC shouldve seen this and not gone ahead with the credit 
search  which was now on her records and was leading to difficulties in finding affordable 
credit  she was trying to get a mortgage. She said that she was being penalised for her past 
mistakes. 
HSBC apologised for misleading Mrs H and paid two amounts of compensation totalling £50. 
But they said the credit search was valid and wouldnt remove it.  They told Mrs H she could 
re-apply again in 3-6 months.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Hs complaint. He said the markers on Mrs Hs accounts should 
have been removed when the IVA was completed. HSBC could decide to reject an account 
application if they wished  but it was reasonable to assume that they shouldve known 
about the credit card debt (and the marker) when Mrs H applied  and therefore shouldve 
been aware that the account application would likely have been rejected. And so  HSBC 
didnt need to do the credit search. He said that the credit search should be removed from 
Mrs Hs credit file.
HSBC didnt agree. They said they could take a decision to reject an application for a current 
account for several reasons and can never guarantee that it would be accepted. Given the 
credit card debt, they were always likely to turn down Mrs Hs application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to be clear here about what this complaint is about. Its not about the decision of 
HSBC to decline to open a current account for Mrs H. HSBC have said  and I accept that  
that its down to their commercial judgment to accept or decline applications for current 
accounts  and to Mrs H. Im not interfering with that.  And  I can see that theyve told us 
that because of the old credit card debt  which was sold to a debt collection agency in 2014 
- they were always likely to decline Mrs Hs application.
But  Mrs Hs complaint is that HSBC shouldve known about the credit card debt (and the 
marker on her HSBC records) and therefore shouldnt have gone ahead with a hard credit 
search  which now meant she was finding it difficult to get a mortgage.
I can see from HSBCs notes what happened. Following the first rejection at the end of 
January 2021, Mrs H complained and called HSBC to try to sort things out. On 9 February 
2021, the notes say  it appears that the account cannot be upgraded due to the 
insolvency marker showing on the ISA
On 10 February 2021, HSBC spoke to Mrs H and asked for, and received, a copy of her 
insolvency release certificate. On 23 February 2021, the notes say that the insolvency 
marker has been removed. On 24 February 2021, HSBC called Mrs H and the notes say 
(we) have run through the Basic Bank to Bank Account conversion with customer, 
application rejected due credit card (since 2013) this card has been closed. I have had 
the insolvency marker removed
Ive seen the current account application dated 24 February 2021. It shows it was rejected 
and that a credit reference agency search was done.
So  it seems to me that the existence of the old credit card debt (and marker) shouldve 
been seen when they first looked at Mrs Hs account on 9 February 2021  or when she sent 
in her insolvency release certificate on 10 February 2021, or when HSBC first looked at the 
markers on her account on 23 February 2021. At that time, they picked up the old ISA 
marker, but not one for a credit card. And  HSBC have told us that the existence of an old 
debt (for up to 12 years) would likely lead to an application being declined. I think therefore it 
would have been reasonable to expect HSBC to have declined Mrs Hs application at that 
stage  rather than going ahead with it and therefore generating a credit search.
I can see that HSBC have paid compensation of £50 for distress and inconvenience, which I 
think was appropriate in the circumstances.
But I agree with our investigator  that it wasnt necessary for HSBC to perform a credit 
search, and this should be removed from Mrs Hs credit file.
Putting things right
HSBC should remove the credit search in February 2021 from Mrs Hs credit file. Mrs H 
should be aware that it usually takes several weeks for credit files to be updated  so it wont 
happen immediately. 
(continued)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should:Remove the credit search dated February 2021 from Mrs Hs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman