DRN-3847988
The complaint
Mr C complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him a 
conditional sale agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In December 2019, Mr C acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. He made an advance payment of £250.  Mr C was required to make 57 monthly 
repayments of £394.01. The total repayable under the agreement was £22,314.56.
Mr C started missing payments within a few months of starting the agreement. It was later 
necessary for him to agree at least two payment holidays. In July 2021 he agreed a payment 
plan with Moneybarn which was cancelled soon after. In February 2022 Mr C started another 
payment plan which was also cancelled.
Mr C says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough which included credit and affordability checks. 
Our adjudicator at first didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. But having received 
further information about Mr Cs daily expenses and committed expenditure, he thought 
Moneybarn had acted unfairly in approving the finance agreement.
As Moneybarn doesnt agree with our adjudicators finding the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Moneybarn didnt verify Mr Cs income before approving the finance. Given the overall size 
of the borrowing, the monthly repayments and the term of the agreement, I think it would 
have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have done so to ensure it was affordable. 
Moneybarn had noted that Mr C had had a default on a debt 16 months before the 
agreement. I think this ought to have put Moneybarn on notice that there was a real 
likelihood that Mr C could find himself in financial difficulty given the length of the loan and 
the relatively large monthly payments hed need to make. It therefore would have been 
proportionate for Moneybarn to have got a more thorough understanding of Mr Cs financial 
circumstances before lending.
Ive seen that Mr C told Moneybarn at the time of his application for the agreement that he 
was earning around £4,700 per month. After making allowance for his daily living expenses 
and his borrowing commitments, Moneybarn estimated he had a disposable income of 
around £2,100. But Moneybarn didnt ask Mr C about his expenditure. Although Moneybarn 
had completed a credit check, this wont have indicated what his regular living expenses 
were. Without knowing what Mr Cs regular committed expenditure was Moneybarn wouldnt 
have got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It 
therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. 
Moneybarn says it calculated Mr Cs expenditure using statistical data which it says gives 
average household expenditure figures specific to his location and household. It says this is 
a standard method for checking household, utility and vehicle costs. The regulator has said 
firms can estimate expenditure unless it knows or there are indicators to suggest an estimate 
is unlikely to be accurate. The credit check Moneybarn completed showed there was a real 
risk that Mr C could be struggling financially as he was borrowing significantly, with £959 
going out each month by way of monthly repayments. In those circumstances I think it would 
have been reasonable and proportionate to have taken steps to better understand Mr Cs  
specific financial circumstances, rather than relying on an estimate.  
I also think it would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have found out more about 
Mr Cs committed expenditure, such as his living costs. I cant be sure exactly what it would 
have would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would 
be reasonable to place significant weight on the information set out in the bank statements 
Mr C has sent us as a good indication as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Mr C was already having to find on average around £5,000 each month to cover 
his mortgage, household bills, daily expenses, and paying towards other existing debt and 
committed expenditure. This demonstrates that he didnt have enough disposable income to 
afford the additional borrowing. I therefore consider Moneybarn didnt make a fair lending 
decision. 
Putting things right  what Moneybarn needs to do
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr C should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £11,740. 
Mr C has told us he wishes to keep the car and is able to pay the total cash price figure by 
borrowing from relatives. I have seen from Moneybarns statement of account dated 
13 February 2023 that Mr C has made payments that total £9,711.09. That means there is 
currently a total of £2,028.91 left to pay in order to meet the original cash price of the car of 
£11,740. 
In the specific circumstances of this complaint, I think Mr Cs offer to pay what is a relatively 
small outstanding sum in order to have paid the total cash price of the car is reasonable, 
provided it is done within a definite and short period of time.
To settle Mr Cs complaint Moneybarn should therefore do the following:
1. Calculate how much Mr C has paid in total which should then be set off against the 
total cash price figure of £11,740. 
2. Allow Mr C 60 days from the date of this decision to pay off the shortfall between the 
total cash price figure and what Mr C currently owes. If he is unable to pay off all of 
the cash shortfall within 60 days Moneybarn doesnt need to do anything further. 3. When Mr C has paid off the shortfall as above, end the agreement with nothing 
further to pay
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file regarding the 
agreement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No.1 Limited to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman