DRN-3564934
The complaint
Mr S complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
Mr S disputes end of contract charges for damage which MBFS says goes beyond 
acceptable wear and tear. The areas of damage include LHF tyre, RHR tyre, LHR tyre, LHF 
door, RHR door pad and RHF door seal.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said that I thought the charges had been fairly 
applied, having regard to the relevant guidelines.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wanted to raise. 
Mr S responded and said he still disputed the scratch on the LHF door because hed had the 
car refurbished prior to handing it back and the scratch wasnt present when the car was 
collected. In relation to the tyres, Mr S said hed had a puncture soon after getting the car 
and had to get the car recovered to a garage. He said if the tyres had been run flat, he would 
have been able to drive to the garage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of the further points made by Mr S. But these havent changed my 
decision. 
As Ive explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the inspection report and the 
photos show that the damage is present and that it goes beyond acceptable wear and tear. I 
understand that Mr S feels strongly that the scratches werent present when the car was 
collected but as Ive explained in my provisional decision, I think its more likely that the 
scratches occurred whilst the car was in Mr Ss possession over the three year period. In 
relation to the tyres, and as Ive explained in my provisional decision, Im persuaded that the 
evidence provided by MBFS shows that the car was supplied with run flat tyres. For these 
reasons  as well as the other reasons given in my provisional decision  Im unable to 
uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman