The complaint
Ms H has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) cancelled her 
motor insurance policy without warning.  So she had to buy alternative insurance quickly and 
didnt get the chance to shop around for a competitive price.
What happened
In late 2018, Ms H insured her car with Admiral.  Before that, shed been insured under an 
Admiral multicar policy.  
In August 2019, Admiral cancelled her policy without warning. So Ms H complained.
Admiral investigated the complaint and found theyd cancelled the policy by mistake.  They 
told Ms H that another person whod been insured under the multicar policy had made a 
claim. Theyd told that person that, if they didnt hear from them, theyd cancel the policy.  
And they heard nothing  so theyd cancelled it.
But Admiral said they hadnt realised that the other policyholder was no longer linked to Ms 
Hs policy  so they shouldnt have cancelled it.  They apologised to Ms H.  They offered her 
a new policy at the same cost as before (provided all the policy details were the same).  
They said theyd send her proof of two years no claims bonus.  And they paid her £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset theyd caused her.
Ms H complained to us. She told us having to find and buy insurance quickly had been 
inconvenient and shed had to borrow money to buy the new policy. And because the policy 
had been cancelled before the end of the year, shed not accrued two years no claims 
bonus  which made another policy more expensive. She didnt think £200 compensation for 
this was enough.
Our investigator looked at Ms Hs complaint but thought Admiral had paid Ms H a fair 
amount of compensation. He did think they should reimburse her for an administration fee 
shed had to pay her new insurers. But he changed his mind when he was sent evidence 
that this had already been done. And he noted that Ms H had actually been able to get 
cheaper insurance with another company  so he couldnt see shed lost out by having to 
find a new policy quickly.
Ms H didnt agree with the investigators view  so Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
DRN-1732311Its agreed that Admiral made a mistake when they cancelled Ms Hs policy. Its obvious that 
she was inconvenienced by this  and that having to find alternative insurance quickly would 
have been stressful for her. As Admiral have confirmed they acted incorrectly here, I havent 
needed to consider this any further. Instead, Ive considered whether the actions they took to 
put things right were fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And based on what Ive seen, 
Im satisfied Admiral acted fairly when correcting the problem. 
Admiral offered Ms H a new policy  but she didnt take that up, because shed found an 
alternative.  And the policy cost less than it would have done to stay with Admiral. So I cant 
say that she lost out financially as a result of having to find a new policy. 
Ms H made changes to her new policy. At first, the investigator said that Admiral should 
cover the administration costs for this. But he changed his mind after receiving evidence 
from the business. 
Ive seen that Ms H actually changed the policy twice. The first time was to amend her no 
claims discount. This was linked to the problems shed had with Admiral  but her new 
insurer didnt charge an administration fee for this. They did charge her for the second 
change  removing a named driver. But this wasnt anything to do with Admiral cancelling 
her policy.  So it wouldnt be fair for me to decide Admiral should pay this. 
Insurers do record cancellations of policies on a central database so that all insurers can 
check whether someones ever had a policy cancelled.  This can make it more difficult to get 
insurance. But Admirals confirmed that theyve not recorded the cancellation here, and I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest otherwise. So Im satisfied it wont impact on Ms H 
getting insurance in the future.
So the only thing for me to consider is whether the compensation Admiral paid Ms H for the 
stress and inconvenience she suffered is fair. Ive seen that she found a new policy quickly 
and apparently without difficulty - so she wasnt inconvenienced for very long.  And she paid 
less for the new policy, which benefited her in the long term. So I think the amount of 
compensation Admiral paid her was fair.     
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint about Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited.  I dont think they need to do anything more than theyve done already to 
resolve it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman