DRN-3301998
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with how Calpe Insurance Company Limited handled a third-party claim 
made against his motor insurance policy. 
Calpes agents handled the claim on behalf of Calpe, but for ease I will refer only to Calpe 
throughout this decision and this will mean Calpe or their agents.
What happened
On 16 September 2016 Mr L was in a road traffic accident with a third party (TP) who was 
carrying a passenger (TPP). 
Based on what Mr L told them and their investigators report, Calpe disputed liability with the 
third-partys insurer (TPI). But as there was no engagement from the TPI, Calpe assumed 
the matter settled and closed their file in January 2017 recording the incident non-fault. 
Mr L asked if Calpe would cover the repair costs for his car, but Calpe told him as hed 
already had the car repaired he would need to seek help elsewhere to recover his costs. Mr 
L therefore made his own claim against the TPI which was successful as the TPI accepted 
liability on a without prejudice basis and paid Mr L around £4,000. The sum related to costs 
for general damages, repair costs, body mop for the car, some policy excess and 
physiotherapy.
In May 2018 the TPP made a personal injury claim against Mr Ls insurer. Calpe responded 
to say in light of the TPs description of events and the damage to the cars, liability was 
disputed and they noted the TP had made no injury claims at the time of the incident or 
claimed for damage to their car. 
Towards the end of December 2018, Calpes solicitors confirmed proceedings had been 
issued by the TPPs solicitors.
  
Calpes solicitors spoke with Mr L on 2 January 2019 and exchanged emails with Mr L on 8 
January 2019. Mr L confirmed he had signed and posted the defence document to Calpes 
solicitors and said he was happy to attend court if needed to dispute the claim. After 8 
January 2019 no further attempts were made by Calpes solicitors to contact Mr L. And Mr L 
did not contact Calpes solicitors. 
In April 2019 Calpes solicitors instructed the same investigation company used previously 
by Calpe in 2016 when the incident first occurred. Calpes solicitors sought to obtain a more 
detailed report from Mr L about the incident. On 18 May 2019 the investigator attempted a 
cold call at the address Calpes solicitors had given them for Mr L, but later reported to 
Calpes solicitors theyd been unsuccessful in making contact with Mr L. 
In June 2019 Calpes solicitors told Calpe that due to failed attempts in making contact with 
Mr L, they recommended Calpe settle the claim to resolve the matter. 
In February 2020 Calpe wrote to Mr L to say theyd settled the claim and paid out £14,454 
and Mr L was now required to pay the outstanding excess. Mr L then raised a complaint. 
Our investigators view was that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. They said that not 
enough had been done by Calpe to engage with Mr L so that Calpe could continue the 
defence, and they highlighted the address Calpes solicitor had shared with their investigator 
was in fact incorrect. Our investigator also said the submissions showed Mr L appeared to 
always engage with Calpe and they concluded Mr L had not been given a fair opportunity to 
put forward what appeared to be a robust defence. Our investigator therefore said Mr L did 
not have to pay the policy excess being requested and also said Calpe should pay Mr L 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the matter had caused. 
Mr L accepted our investigators view, but Calpe disagreed as they said Mr L had accepted 
the terms of his policy which included his responsibility to meet all costs up to his policy 
excess. Calpe said theyd acted reasonably when Mr L stopped co-operating. As a resolution 
couldnt be reached the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im broadly in agreement with our investigators conclusions and Ill explain 
why. Its not the role of this service to decide which party was liable for the incident, but it is 
for our service to decide whether Calpe have treated Mr L fairly in this matter. 
Calpe took the decision to settle the claim because they said Mr L stopped engaging with 
them. However, this is difficult to accept. The submissions show Mr L engaged fully at the 
start of the claim and met with Calpes investigator in September 2016 to complete a report 
about what happened. He also completed Calpes Accident Report From when asked. Mr L 
chased Calpe about the claim until Calpe confirmed theyd closed their file and Mr L then 
pursued his own claim separately. Mr L also engaged with Calpes solicitors in January 2019 
by discussing the matter with Calpes solicitors, signing and returning the defence document, 
providing details of his own solicitors that helped him reclaim his costs and confirming to 
Calpes solicitors that he was happy to defend the claim in court. 
As our investigator noted, Calpes solicitors gave their investigator the wrong address to 
contact Mr L. And despite Calpes solicitors having had contact with Mr L, and noting Mr Ls 
clear engagement to defend the claim when they first contacted him, it seems no concerted 
effort was made to contact Mr L to follow things up. Mr L himself has said he believed he had 
provided everything he had been required to in order to defend the claim  which I find 
reasonable. I am also mindful that when it was time to ask Mr L to pay the excess, there 
didnt appear to be a problem in contacting him. 
Until the recommendation from Calpes solicitors in June 2019, Calpe had accepted Mr Ls 
version of events and disputed liability with the TPI. They then refused to make an offer to 
the TPPs solicitors and continued to dispute liability noting the TP hadnt claimed for or 
reported any injuries or repairs. Calpe noted the TPs version of events did not corroborate 
the images of the damage to the two cars.
  
I think it is also worth noting that at least Calpes solicitors, if not Calpe as well, were also 
aware the TPI had already paid out a reasonable sum to Mr L in respect of the incident. 
While the payment was made on a without prejudice basis, the TPI had accepted liability to 
pay Mr L.Its not now possible to know what would have happened in court, and it is not for this 
service to decide. However, from the available submissions and the actions Calpe and 
Calpes solicitors took prior to the settlement, Mr L did appear to have reasonable grounds to 
defend the claim. I think its fair to say Calpe would not have defended the claim to this 
degree if they hadnt believed there was a case to do so. And it seems the matter was only 
dropped because Calpes solicitors said Mr L was not co-operating with them, when in fact 
he was and it was just that Calpes solicitors had given an incorrect address to their 
investigator.
Taking this all into account, I think its difficult to say Mr L has been treated fairly here. Mr L 
engaged with Calpe and I think Calpes decision to no longer defend the claim is at odds 
with everything they already knew about the incident and their actions prior to June 2019. 
Calpes and their solicitors attempts to contact Mr L when needed also appear to have fallen 
short so I think Mr L and Calpe lost the opportunity to defend the matter in court. Because of 
this I think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
In view of the above, I dont think Mr L should pay the policy excess Calpe Insurance 
Company Limited is asking him to now pay. And I think Calpe Insurance Company Limited 
should pay Mr L £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused. 
Its not clear how the claim has been recorded more recently, and I note Mr L has not raised 
any concerns on this point; however, in view of the above it seems fair for Calpe Insurance 
Company Limited to record the claim as non-fault.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and Calpe Insurance Company Limited 
should follow the direction I have given in the above section, Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman