DRN-3003783
The complaint
Mr L complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) declined the claim he 
made on a van insurance policy. Also, that its looking to recover third party costs from him.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr L hit a parked car. His car and the one he hit were damaged, so Mr L 
reported the accident to Admiral. Mr Ls car was severely damaged, so it was recovered.
Police attended the scene and breathalysed Mr L around 30 mins after the accident. The 
result was 43 mg/100ml, which over the legal limit of 35 mg/100ml. So, Mr L was arrested 
and taken to the police station. Some hours later, while at the station, he was breathalysed 
twice more. The results of these were 33 mg/100ml and 34mg/100ml and so Mr L was given 
words of advice and let go without charge. 
Admiral declined Mr Ls claim, however it had to meet the third-party costs and so did this. It 
said Mr L was in breach of the terms of the policy and so it was entitled to decline the claim 
and recover the third-party costs from him. Mr L didnt agree and so brought his complaint to 
our service.
An investigator at our service considered all the evidence and said Admiral acted fairly in 
declining the claim and in attempting to recover costs. Mr L could understand some of this 
but didnt agree that Admiral should be pursing him for the third-party costs. And so, the 
case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding it.
Admiral  like most insurers on the market  doesnt cover claims arising from an accident 
where the driver of the car was found to be driving above the limit for alcohol. I dont think 
this is unfair. 
The terms of Mr Ls policy says If an accident happens whilst you or any person entitled to 
drive under Section 3 of your current Certificate of Motor Insurance is driving your vehicle 
and is found to be over the legal limit for alcohol or drugs.No cover under the policy will 
be provided and instead, liability will be restricted to meeting the obligations as
required by Road Traffic Law. So, the test Admiral have applied is whether Mr L was found 
to be over the legal limit for alcohol or drugs. Its not disputed that Mr L had had an alcoholic 
drink with dinner or that he failed a breathalyser test at the scene of the accident. A few 
hours later, at the police station, he was found to be just under the limit. I note the police 
chose not to prosecute Mr L for driving under the influence of alcohol, but the policy doesnt 
require a prosecution. Mr L thinks Admiral should accept the claim because he passed 
subsequent tests (at the police station). But I note that these were taken a few hours after 
the accident. And the tests did confirm that there was still alcohol in his system. I think the 
fact that he failed a breath test at the scene of the accident and the fact that theres no 
dispute that he was drinking earlier in the night is enough for me to be satisfied that he was 
found to be over the legal limit. So, I think Admiral was entitled to decline the claim in this 
case and the decision is fair and reasonable.
The relevant term of the policy goes onto say In those circumstances, we will recover from 
you or the driver, all sums paid (including all legal costs), whether in settlement or under a 
Judgment, of any claim arising from the accident. Ive concluded Admiral were fair to apply 
the Drink and drugs clause to Mr Ls claim and so it follows that I think the second half of 
the term also applies in Mr Ls circumstances. Admiral settled a number of third-party costs 
on Mr Ls behalf, and considering the terms of the policy and the relevant law here I wont 
interfere with the decision to peruse Mr L for these costs.
Admiral has said Mr L didnt tell it about the first test (at the roadside) and so was trying to 
deceive it and has mentioned fraud.  However, its told me that its not applied any fraud 
markers to Mr Ls name. And Mr Ls policy naturally lapsed soon after the incident. So, I 
dont think Admiral have treated Mr L unfairly.
Considering everything, I dont think Admiral have acted unfairly in declining Mr Ls claim 
and attempting to recover the third-party costs against him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my 
decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Kinjal Vadgama
Ombudsman