DRN-3692154
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the service The Co-operative Bank Plc provided after it placed a fraud  
block on his account.  
What happened
On 26 June 2021 The Co-op Bank placed a fraud block on Mr Ws account. It called Mr W 
and left a voicemail asking him to call back. When he later spoke to the bank he asked the 
adviser to call him back. She did so but not on the number he expected. For this and other 
reasons Mr W became concerned about the legitimacy of the call, and so decided to end the 
call and ring the banks general number. By the time he did this it was too late to speak to 
the fraud team and so he had to call back the following day, when he says call waiting times 
were long. 
When he spoke to the right team he felt the adviser wasnt precise when describing his 
transactions. He says this nearly led him to deny transactions he had actually made. He then 
raised a complaint about the process to unblock his account, and the service he had 
experienced, on that same call. Mr W says he was uncomfortable he had to make his 
complaint to one of the people that had caused his dissatisfaction. He also says his 
complaint wasnt investigated in full, for example, no explanation was given as to why his 
account had been frozen or why the bank had not made more effort to contact him.
Mr W says the matter caused him distress  as he did not have access to his money - and 
inconvenience - from all the calls he had to make. He feels the bank should offer the same 
out of hours support to customers with fraud blocks as it does to those with lost and stolen 
cards. All staff should give their name on voicemails, and all staff should take notes of all 
calls. Also complaint calls should not involve anyone who is a subject of the complaint.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ws complaint in part. He found the bank made no error when it 
applied the block, and there were no failings in the steps it took to lift the block. He explained 
that much of Mr Ws dissatisfaction related to the processes the bank has in place around 
fraud blocks but we cannot interfere in a banks policies. And the bank is obliged to have 
such processes to protect itself and its customers. He noted some of the delay was caused 
by the choices Mr W made. Overall, he felt the bank should pay Mr W £75 for the distress 
and inconvenience he had suffered as the final stage of the matter could have been handled 
better.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr W asked for an ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding Mr Ws complaint in part. Ill explain why but first want to 
reassure Mr W that I have considered all aspects of his complaint carefully. If I dont 
reference a certain point it is because I am focusing on the issues I find to be material to the 
outcome of his complaint. This is in keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution 
service and as our rules allow.
I can see Mr W is most unhappy with what happened after the block was placed. He feels 
the bank should have worked harder to get in touch and provided better service when it did. 
But in the round I am satisfied the steps it took were fair and reasonable, and in line with 
how it treats all customers that need a block to be lifted. I know Mr W has issues with 
aspects of the process but I dont think there were any failings in the banks conduct at each 
of Mr Ws points of dissatisfaction.
I wont comment in detail on each one but to summarise, the bank promptly called Mr W 
after placing the block; notes werent left after he spoke to the first adviser as they did not go 
through security  this also meant the adviser would, and should, not have discussed Mr Ws 
recent interactions with the bank, and Mr W then ended the call; Mr W did not specify the 
number he wanted a call back on and the adviser did offer to call back on his mobile; it was 
Mr Ws choice to call the general number; and whilst the second adviser was not as precise 
as possible when listing transactions Mr W still successfully authenticated the spend as 
needed  and the block was lifted. 
I can understand that Mr W felt uncomfortable complaining about someone to that person 
directly, but the bank is entitled to define its complaints process, and Mr W could have called 
back if he preferred. I do find that the adviser should have listened to the calls between the 
bank and Mr W before reaching a conclusion, but having listened to the calls I dont think 
that this would have changed the complaint outcome.
I also note Mr W had access to funds at all times via cash machines, and whilst I accept his 
point that life was still restricted at that time due to the pandemic, I think had he made 
different choices the block would have been lifted that same day. That said, I dont want him 
to think I am in any way being reductive about his decision to be cautious, rather that I cant 
fairly find it was the banks fault the block wasnt lifted that same day. 
Mr W has also raised that he was never told why the block was placed but we wouldnt 
expect a bank to give specific details as to why its systems had identified a transaction as a 
fraud risk. The terms and conditions of Mr Ws account allow the bank to act in this way.
Our investigator has already explained that it is not within our remit to look at a banks 
processes, policies or systems. To expand on this, that would be the role of the regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority. Our role is to look at the merits of induvial complaints, to 
decide whether the bank has made an error, and if so how it should put things right.
Overall, I acknowledge the steps Mr W had to take to have the block lifted and to make a 
related complaint caused him a level of stress and inconvenience. Whilst I think there were 
decisions he could have made that would have minimised the impact, I think its reasonable 
that The Co-op Bank recognises it could at times have done things better and for this it 
should pay him £75 compensation. 
Putting things right
The Co-op Bank should pay Mr W £75 compensation in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ws complaint in part. The Co-operative Bank Plc must put things right as 
set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman