DRN-3477670
The complaint
Mr L complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) have rejected a claim he made to them 
regarding unsatisfactory goods.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit 
Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a 
like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) says, amongst other things, that goods should be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. This was a new fridge so I dont think a reasonable person would expect 
anything to be wrong with it.
As Mr L asked to reject the goods within the first thirty days the relevant legislation allows 
him to do so without providing the business an opportunity to repair them.
But there needs to be something wrong with the goods and here I dont think the merchant 
have been unreasonable when asking to send a technician to confirm the fault. In an email 
to Mr L on 26 March 2021 they said:
We are unable to confirm your appliance has a defect; simply because we are not 
engineers. We require a (removed for anonymity) a Technician to confirm your issue as a 
defect. Once this has been confirmed, by a (removed for anonymity) a Technician; you will 
be within your rights to request:
1) a full refund (subject to you have not used the appliance(sic)); partial refund, if the item 
has been used
2) an exchange
3) a repair
I think that sets out the essence of the relevant legislation well and as the merchant had 
limited knowledge of the product I dont think it was unfair of them to ask for clarification by 
an expert. I accept that it was difficult for them to be sure there was a fault with the fridge 
from the photographs Mr L had provided alone.
If it could be demonstrated that the fridge did have a fault then Id think the merchant had 
breached the implied terms of its contract with Mr L that the goods would be of satisfactory 
quality. But without the inspection the merchant required I dont think theres evidence the 
merchant did breach their contract with Mr L. 
In those circumstances I dont think MBNA have been unreasonable when rejecting Mr Ls 
section 75 claim.
I note that MBNA also attempted a chargeback on the goods. The chargeback scheme is not 
administered by MBNA. Its administered by Mastercard and they set strict rules that govern 
whether claims can be successful. MBNA didnt have to attempt a chargeback, but I can see 
they did, and Id expect them to in these circumstances. But when the merchant defended 
the claim successfully and arbitration failed I dont think MBNA could do anything more. They 
dont set the rules for the chargeback scheme and they dont administer it.
So, I dont think the chargeback refusal was unreasonable either and Im afraid I dont think 
MBNA have done anything wrong here or need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman