DRN-2386005
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined their home 
insurance claim for storm damage. Mr W has led this complaint so Ive just referred to him 
throughout this decision. In addition, all references to Aviva include its representatives.
  
What happened
In February 2020, following a storm, Mr W contacted Aviva to make a claim for damage 
caused to his garage roof. Aviva accepted a storm had taken place and sent an agent to 
inspect the reported damage in March 2020. 
Following this inspection, Aviva said that a further inspection was needed to determine 
whether the storm was the cause of damage. This further inspection was delayed and took 
place in June 2020.
Following the second inspection, Aviva declined the claim saying the damage was caused 
by poor workmanship from three years before, which is excluded under the terms. Mr W 
challenged Avivas decision and said he wasnt happy with its handling of the claim, 
including delays. Aviva acknowledged there were delays and as a gesture of goodwill, paid 
Mr W £270 for temporary repairs carried out privately to the roof.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He said Aviva hadnt provided enough evidence to 
show there was poor workmanship for it to fairly rely on its exclusion. He asked Aviva to 
reconsider the claim and pay Mr W £200 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Aviva responded to say it didnt agree. It said it relied on the opinion of the experts that 
attended and that the onus was on Mr W to prove the damage was caused by the specified 
peril. Because Aviva didnt agree with our investigator, this case has been passed to me for 
a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr W has said the damage in this case was caused by a storm. When considering claims 
arising from storm damage, we will ask whether there is evidence of a storm occurring, 
whether the damage claimed for is typical of storm damage and also whether the storm is 
the main cause of the damage sustained. And for this claim to be successful, the answer to 
all three of these questions will need to be yes.
In this case, there is no dispute that a storm took place in the area of Mr Ws home as winds 
of 73mph were recorded. Aviva has also noted that there were strong storm conditions 
present. So Ive gone on to answer these remaining questions.
Is the damage claimed for typical of storm damage?
Mr W claimed for damage to his garage roof  he said that the storm had caused the felt to 
come off the roof. Im satisfied that the damage sustained  felt coming off the roof  is 
consistent with storm damage, particularly a storm involving very high winds.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage sustained?
The remaining dispute is over whether the damage was caused by the storm,
or whether the storm highlighted previous poor workmanship (which is excluded). Aviva has 
said the onus is on Mr W to prove the damage was caused by the specified peril (storm). As 
Ive outlined above, its not disputed there were storm conditions and the damage is in 
keeping with storm damage wed expect to see. Mr Ws property will have been particularly 
exposed to these winds due to its location in the open countryside. So Im satisfied an 
insured event has occurred.
This means that if Aviva then wishes to rely on an exclusion to not cover the claim, the onus 
is on it to show and evidence this exclusion applies. So, Ive considered whether Aviva has 
provided adequate evidence to support its position and to show the policy exclusion fairly 
applies to the claim in this case.
Ive first considered the information from the initial site visit in March 2020. Avivas 
representative offers the opinion that the damage could be due to poor workmanship but is 
inconclusive on this. 
Aviva reviewed this report and within its internal communications it described the decision as 
difficult as it couldnt see the condition of the roof due to tarpaulin and acknowledges the 
garage is exposed to open countryside and high winds. Following on from this, in March 
2020 it let Mr W know it couldnt reach a decision on the claim without a full roof inspection 
including removing all tarpaulin to check the condition of the roof.
A further inspection was arranged by Aviva but it said this had to be cancelled due to 
government-imposed restrictions and the scaffolding company closing down at the time. The 
further inspection took place in June 2020 but weve not been provided with a copy of any 
related report to consider. From what Ive seen, this later inspection didnt involve the 
removal of the tarpaulin as previously deemed necessary by Aviva and its not clear to me 
whether scaffolding was used. I say this particularly as scaffolding being necessary was the 
reason Aviva gave for cancelling the initial further inspection.
While Aviva hasnt provided a report from its June 2020 inspection, it has provided 
comments of the roofer who attended. Their view was the felt blew off due to not being 
attached correctly in the first place and that the felt was likely nailed down instead of with 
bitumen layers and fixed down correctly. Ive not seen any further evidence to support these 
comments, nor have I seen this demonstrated by the photos provided to our service. 
Ive also considered that the works questioned by Aviva were carried out several years ago, 
and there appear to have been no issues until the date of the storm and subsequent claim. 
So, Im not persuaded that the assumptions made by Avivas representative amounts to 
strong enough evidence in this case to fairly apply its exclusion for poor workmanship. 
Put simply, Aviva previously said it couldnt reach a decision on the claim without a full roof 
inspection and the removal of the tarpaulin. But Ive been given little to show that this follow 
up inspection shed any more light on the cause of the damage as the level of investigation 
appears to have remained the same. So its unclear to me what has alleviated Avivas previous concerns, and seemingly it has accepted the results of the second inspection 
despite the same limitations being present.
On this basis Im not satisfied Aviva has provided sufficient evidence to allow it to fairly apply 
its exclusion for faulty workmanship. And in turn Id expect it to reconsider this claim in light 
of the remaining policy terms.  
Delays
Theres no dispute there were delays in arranging the second inspection. In light of the 
restrictions in place at the time I accept this was the cause for the delay. Aviva has offered to 
pay Mr W £270 for the works carried out to make the property wind and water tight which I 
think was a reasonable step on its part to account for the delay. 
Overall 
Ive thought about this claim overall, and while Im satisfied Aviva has taken steps to address 
any delays caused, Im not persuaded the sum it has offered addresses Avivas unfair 
declination of the claim. Taking into account the impact of this, along the lines our 
investigator has given previously, Im directing Aviva to award an additional £200 in 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding this complaint. I require Aviva to:
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy;
pay Mr W £270 for the cost of temporary repairs (if it hasnt already done so); and
pay Mr W a further £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman