DRN-3152909
The complaint
Mrs R complains that the advice given to her by Kerr Henderson (Financial Services) Limited 
(KHL) to transfer the defined benefits from her occupational pension scheme (OPS) into a 
personal pension plan (PPP), and to then invest it into four funds, was unsuitable. She also 
complains that KHL breached her confidentiality during the complaints process.
What happened
In 2015, Mrs R took voluntary redundancy from her employer after 33 years. She had an 
OPS valued at approximately £700,000.
She approached KHL for retirement planning advice. At the time of advice Mrs Rs pension 
was her only significant asset to fund her retirement. Her main objectives were:
Investment and retirement planning
Growth and income
As a result of the meeting, KHL advised her to transfer her OPS into a PPP, and to invest in 
four funds:
Aviva Investors Multi Strategy Targeted Return
Invesco Perpetual Global Targeted Return
Newton Real Return
Standard Life Global Absolute Return Strategies
The client agreement with KHL was that Mrs R would receive half-yearly written valuations, 
and annual meetings to review the investments, with a £1,500 fee payable for each meeting. 
A review meeting was held in March 2017 where Mrs R expressed her concern at the poor 
performance of the funds. It was agreed that there should be no changes to the portfolio at 
that time.
In August 2017, as a result of receiving the valuation report, Mrs R emailed KHL again 
expressing her concern at the funds performance. KHL offered a review meeting but 
advised against unless her attitude to risk (ATR) had changed. She declined this opportunity 
to meet as her risk profile hadnt changed.
In 2018 the adviser at KHL changed, and in February 2019 Mrs R formally complained to 
KHL about the funds poor performance, the lack of action by KHL in response to the 
performance, and how the changeover in advisers was conducted.
KHL responded that it had, in summary;
contacted her in line with the client agreement. She had been contacted when an 
annual review was due, and had agreed to one in March 2017. Annual review 
meetings were offered at the other times but she had either declined, or not 
responded; 
 monitored the fund performance appropriately;
invited her to a meeting with the old and new advisers in 2018, and again in 2019. It 
apologised that Mrs R had been unable to meet with both advisers together.
Unfortunately, Mrs Rs husband had been diagnosed with a terminal illness, but Mrs R met 
with KHLs new adviser in April 2019, where her ATR, objectives and capacity for loss were 
reviewed. At this meeting KHL suggested some alteration to the portfolio, but this advice 
wasnt followed up by Mrs R. 
Very sadly Mrs Rs husband passed away in June 2019.
KHL completed a full written recommendation to change the funds and investment strategy 
and sent this to Mrs R in November 2019. It recommended she invest in a wider spread of 
funds to meet her objectives and circumstances at that time. This advice was not followed up 
by Mrs R.
On 12 December 2019 she wrote a formal complaint to KHL. In summary she complained:
the investment portfolio she had been recommended in December 2015 was 
inappropriate given her stated investment objectives and ATR;
the current portfolio had not changed since it was first invested, despite 
underperformance, the lack of diversity and her repeated concerns; and
KHL staff had breached her confidentiality by informing her brother-in-law (an 
employee of KHL and her husbands brother) that she had submitted a complaint (in 
February 2019) against KHL. This disclosure had caused very significant stress to 
herself and her husband, who was then terminally ill.
KHL didnt uphold any aspect of her complaint. It sent a full response, but in summary it said;
It acknowledged the performance of the funds had been disappointing, but the 
recommendation and reasoning were sound at the time, and it wasnt responsible for 
the performance of the funds.
It had contacted her every six months and offered to meet and review the 
investments, but she hadnt responded, so no meetings could take place.
It hadnt breached her confidentiality. It said it hadnt shared details of her complaint 
with her brother-in-law, but had only asked his advice on when it would be best to 
provide a response to her complaint given the very difficult personal circumstances 
she was going through.
Mrs R didnt agree with this, so complained to our service.
Our investigator thought the advice given to Mrs R by KHL to transfer her OPS into a PPP 
was suitable given her objectives and personal circumstances. 
However, she didnt think the advice to invest in the four funds was suitable. She thought the 
investments werent sufficiently diverse so as to mitigate the risks involved. So in order to put 
Mrs R back as close as possible to the position she wouldve been in had she been given 
suitable investment advice, our investigator thought KHL should compare the position Mrs Rs investments were in against a benchmark. Should this show a loss then she should 
be compensated for this. 
She also thought that KHL had breached confidentiality and caused her significant stress 
and upset. She thought KHL should pay her £500 compensation for this.
Mrs R agreed with the matters that the investigator upheld, but felt the proposed 
compensation was unfair. She thought:
the benchmark the investigator thought KHL should use in its calculations was 
wrong, as it didnt fairly reflect where she probably shouldve invested her pension;
KHL werent competent to carry out the calculation; 
she should be fairly compensated for the immense stress that she had been caused 
by KHL by their on-going mismanagement of her pension funds given they were 
much higher risk than she could reasonably afford;
£500 compensation didnt fairly reflect both what she deserved and what should be a 
significant penalty for KHLs confidentiality breach.
KHL also responded. In summary:
it welcomed the investigators assessment that the advice given to Mrs R to transfer 
her OPS into a PPP was suitable;
the advice to invest in the four funds was appropriate to her personal and financial 
circumstances outlined to it at the time of its initial recommendations;
it didnt accept Mrs Rs perception of her brother-in-laws involvement in the 
complaint process, and whilst understanding the last few years had been traumatic 
for her, it didnt accept that its treatment of her had been unfair, and its attempts to 
be sensitive in the timing of communications to her had been totally and unfairly 
misconstrued.
Our investigator considered the points raised but wasnt persuaded to change her view. As 
no agreement could be reached, the matter came to me for a decision.
Because I didnt agree with everything the investigator had said, on 26 October 2021 I 
issued a provisional decision, in which I explained I was only considering aspects of her 
complaint that had occurred prior to March 2020. This was because KHL hadnt been given 
the opportunity to consider anything that had occurred after this date. In this provisional 
decision I said:
The advice to transfer
Although Mrs R hasnt explicitly disagreed with the investigators view that the advice to 
transfer her OPS into a PPP was appropriate, for completeness Ive considered this.
Within the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated 
business to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
client.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time KHL advised Mrs R were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like KHL, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile. In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, KHL 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mrs Rs 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following: 
A firm must: 
1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits; 
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to 
make an informed decision; 
3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and 
4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice. 
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests. 
COBS 19.1.7 also said: 
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of KHLs advice to Mrs R in the context of the above 
requirements.
Mrs R had approached KHL as she was considering taking voluntary redundancy. In 
accordance with COBS 9.2.2R KHL undertook its fact finding for Mrs R and then set out its 
assessment of his circumstances and objectives. The latter was recorded as follows:
Until at least age 55, the investment objective is to grow the real value of pension capital, 
should it be appropriate for [Mrs R] to transfer the CETV to a personal pension environment.When pension capital is accessed, the objective will be to generate an increasing income 
and for the capital to continue to grow.
It also recorded her ATR as 4 on a scale of 1-10. This is considered low.
As did the investigator, Ive noted above within the COBS rules that the starting assumption 
for an assessment of Mrs Rs options was that a transfer would be unsuitable, unless it could 
be demonstrated that it was in her best interests in order to meet specific objectives. And I 
can see from its suitability report, KHL have started from this position. So Ill explore these 
objectives further below.
The pension was the only significant asset to fund Mrs Rs income in retirement, so in order 
for the transfer to be in her best interests, it would have to have a good chance of 
significantly improving on the guaranteed benefits of the OPS.
From the documents provided, and the investigators conversations with Mrs R, Im satisfied 
that it was her intention to take the benefits at 55. And the Pension Transfer Analysis 
showed the growth required in a new pension (the critical yield) needed to be 0.8% each 
year to match the existing benefits of her OPS at age 55. 
At the time of the advice the Financial Ombudsman Service was publishing discount rates, 
which provided a useful indication of what growth rates mightve been reasonably achievable 
for a typical investor. When the advice was given, the relevant discount rate was 3.3% per 
year.
So there was a good chance that the investment growth in a personal pension would be 
greater than the gains she would make should she remain in the OPS. And Im satisfied, 
given her objectives, the relatively short time until she wished to retire, and her very difficult 
personal circumstances, that investment growth was important to her. So as a result, I dont 
think the advice to transfer her OPS to a PPP was unsuitable.
The initial investment advice
Our investigator thought the advice to invest in the four funds listed above was unsuitable. 
But Im afraid I dont agree. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs R, so Ill 
explain.
KHL had to follow the same rules when giving investment advice as it did when it gave the 
advice to transfer, that is COBS 9.2.1R. So in summary, KHL had to obtain the necessary 
information regarding Mrs Rs:
knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice
financial situation
investment objectives
and from the information obtained, KHL had to be satisfied that:
the investment recommendation met Mrs Rs investment objectives (including her 
ATR, and the purpose and intended duration of the investments)
Mrs R was able to financially withstand the investment risks
Mrs R had the necessary experience or knowledge to understand the risks involved.Having looked at the fact find and the personal recommendation KHL prepared for Mrs R, 
Im satisfied that the above requirements were complied with. I can see it considered her 
intended employment status (she was intending to find work until aged 55), her assets, both 
liquid and illiquid, and her regular financial commitments. 
The recommendation left Mrs R with around £190,000 in cash, and it was noted in the fact 
find that Subject to [Mrs R] seeking new employment and the extent of any net income from 
such a source, . [Mrs R] felt that they would draw down on the severance payment and 
some of the existing cash until such times as [Mrs R] might access her pension. So, given 
her circumstances, I think Mrs R was in a position where she could take a risk with some of 
her capital. 
The documentation from the initial fact-find and the recommendation report say that Mrs Rs 
investment objective was until at least age 55, the investment objective is to grow the real 
value of pension capital and Mrs R was rated as low or a score of four out of 10 on a risk 
scale. She was 51 at the time of the advice and intended to retire at 55, so the investments 
wouldve needed to match that timescale.
Ive looked at the fund fact sheets. These are produced by the fund managers and give an 
indication of the level of risk each fund represents to the consumer. And all have a risk rating 
of four. And they are intended to produce investment growth over a rolling three-year period. 
So this seems to broadly fit Mrs Rs requirements and attitude to risk at the time of the 
advice.
I note the investigators comments about the lack of geographical diversity in the selected 
funds. However, I dont agree. I have looked at the fund fact sheets and key investor 
information and I can see there was a global spread of investment locations. And Im 
satisfied that there was an acceptable diversity in both geography and asset types, and the 
funds offered the potential to provide a rate of return appropriate to Mrs Rs objectives.
Its important to note that I consider that theres sometimes more than one product or 
approach that might meet the consumers circumstances and objectives. Another adviser 
might take a different approach, but that doesnt mean what was originally recommended 
was unsuitable. Mrs R has said that the fund switch recommendation given in 2019 supports 
her conclusion that the initial investments werent properly diversified. But Im afraid I dont 
agree. In 2019 her circumstances were different, and the advice given was as a result of a 
new fact find. 
Taking everything into account, I think the initial investment recommendation given to Mrs R 
by KHL was broadly suitable for her. I appreciate she has concerns with the performance of 
the funds, but just because they didnt achieve a better return doesnt mean the 
recommendation given at the time was unsuitable. Notwithstanding this, the performance of 
the investment isnt something that our service is able to look at.
I appreciate my provisional decision in respect of the investment advice isnt what Mrs R 
wants to hear, but having considered all the available evidence, on balance Im unable to 
uphold this aspect of her complaint.
The ongoing service provided by KHL
Mrs R has said that she raised her concerns about the poor performance of the funds with 
KHL on numerous occasions, but it took no action in response to her concerns. And having 
seen records of the emails between them, I can see that she did. But I can also see KHL 
offered to have face-to-face meetings, as per their client agreement, but Mrs R chose not to 
as her ATR had not changed. And given that it hadnt changed, and that the investments were still within the 3-year rolling period for investment growth, I dont think it unreasonable 
that KHL didnt recommend any fund switches, especially as these would come at an 
additional cost to Mrs R. It would be hard for KHL to justify causing this additional expense to 
Mrs R when nothing had changed and its still within the time horizon of the original advice.
It is important to note here, that the role of KHL was not that of a discretionary fund 
manager. Any advice given by KHL needed to be followed by specific instructions by Mrs R 
to proceed. KHL could not act proactively or independently of Mrs R. So Im satisfied that 
KHL were unable to take any action in respect of the funds, unless explicitly instructed to do 
so by Mrs R. And I can see that KHL did reach out to her at the other required times and 
offered to meet her, but she didnt respond.
The breach of confidentiality
Here I agree with the findings of the investigator, for broadly the same reasons. 
It is clear from the testimony of both KHL and Mrs R that the fact that she had made a 
complaint about KHL was disclosed to Mrs Rs brother-in-law, who was an employee of KHL. 
But it is the reason behind this disclosure that is in dispute. 
Mrs R believes that the disclosure was intended to dissuade her from escalating the 
complaint. But KHL has said that its only intention was to attempt to lessen the impact of its 
complaint investigation outcome on Mrs R, at what was already a very distressing and 
difficult time for her. 
Whilst I can understand KHLs point of view, I dont accept it was appropriate to inform a 
third party, even if it was Mrs Rs brother in law, of her complaint. KHL had already come to 
a decision on the outcome of the complaint, and its only consideration was when to deliver 
this outcome to Mrs R. And discussing the fact that a complaint had been made with the 
brother-in-law of the complainant, even if no details of the complaint were disclosed, has the 
potential to cause the complainant to believe the disclosure was aimed at causing the 
complaint to be dropped. And that is what happened here.
Mrs R was going through an unimaginably difficult time, with her husband suffering a 
terminal illness. And from her testimony I can see this disclosure compounded the stress she 
was suffering as she thought it may cause a rift in the relationship between her husband and 
his brother in the last months of his life. Im satisfied there was significant additional stress 
caused to Mrs R by KHL, and that £500 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mrs R has said that £500 wasnt enough to be a significant penalty for KHL. But this service 
is not the regulator, and we cant impose fines or punish businesses who get things wrong. 
Where errors or mistakes are made, we aim to put the consumer in the position they 
wouldve been had the error not been made, and to offer compensation where appropriate. 
So £500 is not intended to be a penalty for KHL  it is a payment that recognises that it did 
something wrong, and this caused Mrs R significant additional stress at a time which was 
already extremely difficult for her. 
The response to my provisional decision
KHL agreed with my provisional decision and accepted my view regarding the breach of 
confidentiality. 
Mrs R did not respond.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs R or KHL have disputed my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart 
from the outcome I set out in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
I consider £500 compensation for the significant additional stress that KHL have caused 
Mrs R fair and reasonable in this case.   
My final decision
As a result of all of the above, I partially uphold this complaint.
I require Kerr Henderson (Financial Services) Limited to pay Mrs R £500 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman