DRN-2473683
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs V complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc insisted they take out life insurance in 
2010 in connection with a proposed mortgage. They say they had sufficient workplace cover 
and didnt need or want this additional protection. They also feel this was a form of PPI, 
widely discredited as being mis-sold.
What happened
An investigator at this service did not feel their complaint should be upheld.
He did not accept that there was sufficient evidence to conclude that the advisor had told 
them they had to take out the policy, particularly given the paperwork said otherwise.
He also explained that this policy was not a form of PPI and did not suffer from the type of 
exclusions which had made many such policies unsuitable. 
Instead, he said, the policy matched their new mortgage commitment and would have paid 
off the outstanding balance in the event of eithers death. While they had significant general 
insurance protection at the time via their workplace benefits he did not accept this meant the 
advisor was wrong to recommend specific additional cover to protect this new borrowing 
commitment.
Mr S and Mrs V disagreed, and said:
They both worked for the NHS in secure well-paid positions with a generous 
benefits/protection package
This would have meant that the surviving partner had more than enough money  via 
a death-in-service lump sum and widows pension  to continuing paying the 
mortgage on their own
In fact, the surviving partner would have had a total monthly income of £4,500; they 
explained this to the advisor but he still insisted that they had to take out this policy 
to obtain the mortgage 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. As such, I will not repeat 
his arguments (which were outlined at greater length in his View).
I fully acknowledge Mr S and Mrs Vs arguments that they had sufficient provision via their 
NHS benefits to have been able to cover the mortgage in the event of eithers death 
(assuming they continued working for the NHS throughout the lifetime of the mortgage). But 
this alone does not mean the advisor was wrong to recommend they take out bespoke 
mortgage protection insurance, which would have paid off any outstanding balance in the 
event of Mr S or Mrs Vs death. This would have not affected their entitlement to the NHS 
lump-sum or widow/widowers pension which would doubtless have been additionally 
valuable in their new circumstances.
Given this, I am satisfied that the recommendation was reasonable as long as the advisor 
made clear it was only a recommendation and not a condition of the mortgage (HSBC saying 
this was not the case).
In this context, my role  and that of this service  is to consider whether there is sufficient, 
persuasive evidence to fairly and safely conclude that a business did something wrong; in 
this case, that the advisor misled them. And I dont feel there is such sufficient evidence.
While I dont doubt Mr S and Mrs Vs recollections, the HSBCs advisors mortgage 
recommendation states that they were not required to take any insurance policy as a 
condition of the mortgage (except for household insurance). So, in the absence of any other 
relevant evidence, I dont believe I can safely conclude that the advisor told them that this 
policy was compulsory.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman