DRN-3683466
The complaint
Mr N complains he was the victim of an investment scam and that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt 
do enough to stop that happening or to recover his money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr N is unhappy Lloyds wont refund £5,931.51 he lost over the course of several online 
payments he made using his Visa debit card between April 2021 and June 2021. Hed been 
approached by a broker who advised him to create an account with a cryptocurrency 
exchange company Ill refer to as M. The broker asked him to first purchase cryptocurrency 
through M, and then load the crypto onto his online wallet.  
Mr N says the broker was supportive and professional and he was told the more money he 
invested, the higher his profits would be. He was told to deposit £255 onto the crypto wallet 
before he could withdraw funds, but when he tried to make a withdrawal, he was told he 
needed to pay a fee and taxes. Once hed paid that, he was also required to pay other fees 
including £800 for a bank mediator, £500 for documentation, £1,000 for bank charges, £500 
for the clearance fee and £700 for maintenance. When he was still unable to make a 
withdrawal, he realised hed been the victim of a scam and approached Lloyds for help to get 
his money back.  
Lloyds said it had blocked the first payment and sent a text message to Mr N asking him to 
confirm the payment was genuine. When Mr N called to have the block removed, Lloyds 
asked him if hed investigated the company and was satisfied it wasnt a scam. Mr N said he 
was satisfied it wasnt a scam and asked it to let the payment go. 
Lloyds told Mr N it couldnt have done anything more to stop the payments and that it 
couldnt request a chargeback because M was a third-party money transfer service, which 
had provided the service it had offered. It also said that as the payments were made by debit 
card, they didnt fall under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM).
Mr N wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He explained the broker had 
appeared genuine and knowledgeable and hed spoken to them on the phone at least once 
a week. He had also seen positive reviews online.
He explained that when he made the first payment, hed received a text message from 
Lloyds to authorise the transaction and he accepts he asked it to let the payment go through. 
But he doesnt accept Lloyds did enough to protect him from the risk of being defrauded. He 
argued he was vulnerable and that if hed known it could be a scam, he wouldnt have told 
the bank to go through with the payments. He says he wasnt asked any further questions or 
given advice on the risks of fraud. He believes the payments were unusual for his account 
and Lloyds failed to take that into consideration. He explained hed been left in severe 
financial difficulty and is now struggling to pay his rent and council tax. Its also had an 
impact on his mental health.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She noted Lloyds had declined 
the payment Mr N had tried to make on 31 March 2021 and when he called to ask it to lift the 
block, it had asked him if he had checked the merchant and was satisfied it wasnt a scam. 
Our investigator was satisfied this was a meaningful warning and any further questions or 
warnings would not have made a difference to Mr Ns decision to continue with the 
payments. 
Our investigator also considered Mr Ns bank statements dating back to April 2021, and 
noted payments to other investment companies, as well as a payment to M in January 2021. 
She was satisfied this showed Mr N had an established relationship with M and experience 
of investment transactions. She was also satisfied a Visa chargeback request would be 
unsuccessful as Mr N had paid a genuine merchant, which had provided its services to 
purchase and use cryptocurrency. So, she was satisfied Lloyds had acted fairly when 
declining to refund the money Mr N had lost. 
Mr N wasnt satisfied and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. His 
representative has argued Lloyds didnt go far enough with its questioning during the call, 
particularly as it knew the risk involved in the use of cryptocurrency exchange companies. 
Theyve argued that if  Lloyds had asked more probing questions about how he found out 
about the investment, Mr N would have likely told it he was approached by a broker and 
Lloyds couldve given advice regarding the risk of investment scams. Had it done so, Mr N 
wouldnt have proceeded with the payments.
Mr Ns explained that when he spoke to Lloyds, he believed hed been dealing with a 
professional broker who would produce positive results and it wasnt sufficient for Lloyds to 
have merely asked him if he was satisfied it wasnt a scam. He believes Lloyds shouldve 
advised him about what due diligence to carry out including checks to ensure he was dealing 
with a genuine company. Mr N maintains he was under the impression he was dealing with a 
genuine company, hence why he confirmed to Lloyds that he thought it was legitimate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that although Mr N didnt intend the money to go to scammers, he did authorise 
the disputed payments. Lloyds is expected to process the payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make. But, where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it 
may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Lloyds, along with other payment services providers, should be monitoring accounts and be 
on the lookout for unusual transactions or other signs of fraud. The first payment Mr N made 
to M was blocked by Lloyds and he was sent a text message asking him to confirm hed 
made the payment. This was then followed by a phone call during which Mr N confirmed he 
was satisfied there was no scam. Having listened to the recording of this call, I'm satisfied 
Lloyds asked Mr N if he had checked the company and was confident it wasnt a scam. 
From the evidence Ive seen, M was a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. But this 
service takes the view that, by January 2019, even if the bank was satisfied the money was 
being paid to an account with a legitimate company in the consumers name, the 
conversation should not have stopped there. This is because we think firms had or ought to 
have had a good enough understanding of how these scams worked  including that the consumer often moves money to an account in their own name before moving it on again to 
the fraudster. 
During the call with Lloyds, Mr N was asked whether he thought M could be operating a 
scam, but Lloyds should have gone further and asked more questions, for example; whether 
there was a third-party involved and/or whether the investment opportunity had been 
advertised on social media. If Lloyds had asked more probing questions, its likely Mr N 
would have told it about the broker and how they came into contact. At that point, it would 
have been appropriate for Lloyds to have warned Mr N about the possibility that this was a 
scam and of the need to conduct further checks.
However, if Lloyds had given such a warning, I dont think it would have made a difference to 
Mr Ns decision to continue with the payment. He had previous investment experience, M 
was a legitimate company who hed used before and he hasnt reported having previously 
been the victim of a similar scam. At the time of the call, there there were no existing 
warnings about M from the FCA or from other regulatory bodies on IOSCO, so even if the 
warning had prompted him to conduct further checks, he wouldnt have found any adverse 
warnings. As for the broker, Mr N told us hed previously seen positive reviews online and 
that theyd had various phone calls and built up a relationship of trust. So, again, if hed 
undertaken further checks I think its unlikely he wouldve uncovered anything that would 
have caused him to change his mind.
Mr N clearly believed this was a legitimate investment despite having been asked a question 
by Lloyds which brought to his attention the fact there was some risk of financial harm and, 
in the circumstances, Im not persuaded a warning would have made any difference to his 
decision to go ahead with the payment. Consequently, Im satisfied theres no reason for it to 
refund any of the payments. 
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card 
issuer (i.e. Lloyds) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) 
a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr N).
Lloyds is bound by the card scheme operators rules. It has said it didnt raise a chargeback 
because M had provided the service it had offered, and Im satisfied thats fair. As this was 
an investment trading dispute, the only applicable misrepresentation option for Lloyds would 
have been if Mr N was unable to withdraw available funds from the trading platform and as 
there was no suggestion the cryptocurrency exchange company didnt do what was asked, I 
agree there was no prospect of a successful chargeback.
Overall, Im sorry to hear Mr N lost such a significant amount of money. But for the reasons 
Ive explained I dont think Lloyds is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman