DRN-3878171
The complaint
Mrs P complains that she wasnt told she would need to cover the cost of a service when 
she extended her hire agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.
What happened
Mrs P entered into a hire agreement in April 2018 with VWFS to hire a car. The agreement 
was due to end in April 2022. In January 2022, Mrs P has explained that she ordered a new 
lease vehicle from VWFS and agreed an informal extension of her 2018 lease agreement 
until the expected delivery of her new vehicle in July 2022. Mrs P says she was told that she 
would need to cover the cost of the MOT due in May 2022, but in June 2022 the service light 
came on. Mrs P says she wasnt told she would need to cover the cost of this as well and 
hadnt budgeted for it.
Mrs P says she had the service carried out but given she was handing the car back with a 
lower mileage than allowed, full Mot and now service, she felt as a gesture of goodwill the 
service should be reimbursed.
VWFS issued a final response letter in July 2022. It said that Mrs P didnt have a service 
plan with her hire agreement and so she was liable for ensuring the vehicle was serviced 
and maintained.
Mrs P referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold this complaint he said that the terms of Mrs Ps lease meant that services were the 
responsibility of Mrs P. He noted the timing was unfortunate but didnt think that VWFS was 
required to waive or refund the cost of the service. 
Mrs P didnt agree with our investigators view. She didnt agree that she had been treated 
fairly and reiterated that she only extended her agreement as she was waiting for the 
delivery of a new vehicle from VWFS. She said the extension was an informal extension 
which suggested the terms could be relaxed. She said that the extension had meant she had 
to pay for a MOT and service which were to the advantage of VWFS and to her 
disadvantage and these disadvantages werent explained to her.
As a resolution hasnt been agreed, Mrs Ps complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mrs Ps comments that she wants her complaint considered from the consumers 
perspective. The Financial Ombudsman Service as an impartial service and therefore I will 
consider all evidence provided to reach a fair decision. My role is to consider each case 
based on its individual merits, I take relevant law, regulations and guidelines into account, 
but my decision is based on what I consider fair and reasonable given the circumstances of 
the complaint. 
Mrs P entered into a hire agreement with VWFS and in doing so she agreed to its terms. 
She ticked the box to exclude maintenance and was, as set out in the terms and the key 
responsibilities document which she signed, required to ensure the vehicle was serviced in 
accordance with the manufacturers recommendations. As the service was required while 
Mrs P was still subject to the hire agreement terms, I cannot say that VWFS has done 
anything wrong in saying Mrs P was liable for the cost of the service.
Mrs P has said the extension was an informal extension and so there was room to relax the 
terms. While I note this comment, the contact notes provided by VWFS show that the 
extension was agreed on the same terms and costs as the hire agreement. Therefore, I find 
it reasonable to accept that any service requirements were the liability of Mrs P up to the end 
of the agreement extension.
Mrs P says the approach taken is unfair and has said she returned a car in excellent 
condition, with full MOT, lower mileage than allowed and a full service. I understand the point 
she is making but I also note she was aware of the need to cover the cost of the MOT and 
that the return conditions set out what was required in terms of the condition of the car. In 
regard to the point made about the mileage, Mrs P had a mileage allowance available to her 
and while she may not have used all of this there was nothing in the agreement to suggest 
this would then result in any refund. Therefore, I do not find this factor means that Mrs P 
needed to be treated any differently when it came to her liability for the service cost.
In conclusion, while I understand why Mrs P is upset that she needed to pay for the service 
shortly before returning the vehicle, I do not find in this case that VWFS has done anything 
wrong or that Mrs P has been treated unfairly. Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman