DRN-1145973
Complaint
Mr M complains The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) didnt tell him of the impact on his 
credit score when applying for various borrowing facilities. 
Background
Mr M has banking accounts with RBS and made a number of online borrowing applications 
which he believed had negatively affected his credit score, resulting in higher interest rates 
on subsequent borrowing requests. Mr M feels that RBS didnt give him any advice on the 
impact of his borrowing applications. 
RBS say that the application process is online and is non advisory. The online application 
clearly states that borrowing requests are subject to credit assessment and credit reference 
searches. 
Mr M was unhappy with the response from RBS and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint and said RBS had the right to individually 
assess the applications and refer to the appropriate credit reference agencies. The 
investigator felt that Mr M had been made aware of this during the borrowing application 
process. Mr M disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator and I will explain the reason for my 
decision.
Mr M is upset with the interest rates now being offered to him for a loan request and I can 
see he feels that RBS didnt tell him the potential impact repeated credit scoring could have 
on subsequent borrowing applications. So I have looked at whether RBS could have done 
more when Mr M applied for borrowing facilities. 
The applications made by Mr M were done on a non advisory basis. This means that Mr M 
didnt receive any advice from RBS. He applied online and was directed to read the terms 
and conditions of the online application. There was no discussion with a member of staff.
RBS provided this service with details of their online borrowing application which does state 
in the About You section I have read and agree with how my personal data will be used 
including any necessary checks made with credit reference agencies and later on its says 
Any application is subject to a credit assessment. This section asks for Mr M to 
acknowledge this by ticking a box, without which the application would not be able to be 
completed. During the course of the online application there are help points where the applicant is given 
the opportunity to ask questions about the process, with RBS contact details, including a 
helpline phone number to call. I am satisfied during the process of the online application Mr 
M had been given the opportunity to have made enquiries about the impact of his 
applications, if he so wished. 
RBS (like most banks) undertake credit assessments when considering any borrowing 
requests from its customers. These assessments inform the bank what it will lend and at 
what rate they will charge and are individually assessed. Whilst previous borrowing 
applications are taken into account in this assessment, its only part of the decision taken by 
the bank as to whether it lends or not, or in this case, the rate of interest it would charge for 
any borrowing. 
Its not my role to tell RBS what rate of interest they should charge as a result of these 
checks, most banks will offer different rates of interest to different borrowers based on 
individual assessment. Part of that assessment is obtaining credit reference searches and 
this is what happened here. 
I am satisfied, on balance, that RBS acted correctly and the online application does give Mr 
M the opportunity to read how his personal data would be used. Its worth mentioning that 
the number of previous applications is not the sole reason for any interest rate being offered 
as other factors can contribute to that as part of the overall credit assessment.
Whilst I know my decision will disappoint Mr M, it follows that I cant ask anymore of RBS 
here.
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman