DRN-3405183
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Santander UK Plc hasnt updated their address, closed an 
account, or sent tax deduction certificates following their requests.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D held a Not Ordinarily Resident Account (NORA) savings account with 
Santander. A dormant block was placed on the account, and Santander sent a letter in 
December 2013 which listed the documents needed to unblock it. Mr and Mrs D sent back 
the relevant proofs soon after receiving the letter  along with a change of address request. 
They also asked for an up to date tax deduction statement and certificate. But Mr and Mrs D 
didnt hear back from Santander. 
In December 2017 Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs D to say it would be applying a dormancy 
marker to the account as it hadnt been used. That letter was sent to their previous address. 
In April 2020 Mr and Mrs D sent an email to Santander asking about the status of the 
account, as well as how to close it and transfer their savings. That prompted an automatic 
response from Santander, which advised account information couldnt be accessed by email 
 so to either call or use the online banking chat function to make the request.
Mr and Mrs D subsequently sent a letter asking for a reply to the questions raised in their 
previous email. Santander wrote back to request identification documents  which Mr and 
Mrs D sent, and the bank received in February 2021. When they didnt hear back, Mr and 
Mrs D emailed to chase what was happening. Santander replied asking them to call as the 
bank didnt have access to account information via email, so wasnt able to log the request. 
This prompted Mr and Mrs D to raise a complaint in April 2021.
Santander sent its final response to Mr and Mrs Ds previous address. It said some of the ID 
documents it had received were unreadable, so it hadnt actioned the requests. As this letter 
wasnt received by Mr and Mrs D, a follow up complaint was made that included the issues 
surrounding the change of address and not being provided with tax deduction certificates. As 
the situation remained unresolved, Mr and Mrs D referred their complaint to our service.
An investigator here thought the service Mr and Mrs D had received from Santander had 
been poor. He noted instances where the bank hadnt responded and had mistakenly 
switched between using Mr and Mrs Ds old and new addresses  meaning some of the 
letters sent hadnt been received. In the investigators view some of the ID documents were 
unreadable, so it was fair for Santander to request new ones be sent. 
Mr and Mrs D said if theyd had the savings returned sooner they could have bought 
Premium Bonds and potentially won money by now. But the investigator thought the loss 
claimed was too speculative  and instead recommended £150 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. He also said Santander should produce the requested tax deduction 
certificates and give Mr and Mrs D with a direct contact  so the required ID could be easily 
provided, and the account closed without any further delay.
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept the investigators view and said they thought Santander should 
pay £1,000 to compensate them for the problems. They explained they both had serious 
long-term health conditions, and so the issues theyd encountered had caused them 
considerable mental anguish and inconvenience. Santander agreed to the compensation 
amount but added that the tax deduction certificates could only be issued once the ID and 
address change issues were resolved. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me for a final decision on 
the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint  and have reached the same conclusions as 
the investigator. 
Santander has system notes to support it received the documentation and change of 
address request in 2014, but it cant evidence that it sent a response explaining why that 
wasnt sufficient to enact the change and provide the tax certificates. Santander has more 
recently commented that the various proofs and IDs received at the time werent certified, 
and so speculates that could have been why it wasnt deemed sufficient. I appreciate that 
records going back that far might be limited. But given there are notes from around that time 
confirming receipt of the documents, and Mr and Mrs D say they didnt hear back, Im not 
persuaded Santander did respond. 
Mr and Mrs D waited until 2020 to follow up on their requests. That suggests they werent 
overly concerned by not hearing back, and implies the banks failure to reply in 2014 resulted 
in minimal impact to them in the intervening years. 
Its unfortunate that when Mr and Mrs D did get back in touch, the pandemic was affecting 
the bank and postal services. This inevitably meant there were long gaps between 
correspondence. Mr and Mrs D initially chased their 2014 contact by email, but received an 
auto-reply explaining it wasnt possible to discuss the details of the account via that channel. 
Santander doesnt consider email to be a secure way to discuss an account, so I dont think 
directing Mr and Mrs D to the other options for getting in contact was unreasonable. Those 
didnt suit Mr and Mrs D  as calling would have cost them, and they didnt have access to 
online banking  so they sent a letter instead. But I havent found fault on the banks part in 
that respect. I do, however, accept that having to follow up on the requests made in 2014 
would have been frustrating.   
I also agree there was a delay in Santander responding to the documentation it received in 
2021, which led to a chaser email being sent and ultimately the complaint being raised. The 
final response to the complaint was then sent to Mr and Mrs Ds old address  which, 
understandably, led them to believe Santander was ignoring them, and caused further 
frustration. I have factored all of that in, when thinking about how to put things right.
The system notes Ive reviewed indicate Santander considered the copies of Mr and Mrs Ds 
ID cards to be unreadable, which I agree with (based on the versions Ive been provided). 
The notes also suggest that an extra piece of ID is needed from Mrs D. I appreciate that 
when the copies were made, access to photocopying equipment might have been very 
limited  and Ive no doubt Mr and Mrs D did the best they could at the time. But its 
important, for obvious reasons, that the copies the bank receives are readable. That said, I 
havent seen that Santander, to date, has clearly explained to Mr and Mrs D which of the 
documents and proofs it received were acceptable and which it still requires clear certified copies of. Not being clear on what was still required, and sending generic requests for ID, I 
consider has further delayed things being resolved. It means Mr and Mrs D are still unsure 
on what they need to do to unblock the account and change their address, more than 18 
months after the document copies were received by the bank. Thats also had the knock-on 
effect of delaying the tax certificates being sent.
Looking at the impact caused by issues Ive highlighted above, Ive seen an extra letter was 
sent to chase things in 2020 (that wouldnt have been needed if Santander had responded in 
2014). There was also some additional chasing following the document copies being sent in 
2021. Mr and Mrs D didnt receive a couple of letters (as they were sent to their old address) 
 which, along with the generic responses they did receive, would have added to their 
frustration and confusion. Ive also noted that Mr and Mrs D have long term health issues, 
which makes dealing with these matters more difficult for them. 
Ive balanced those observations against the fact that the amount in the account is relatively 
small  and Mr and Mrs D havent mentioned experiencing any financial difficulty as a result 
of not having access to the funds. Ive also not seen any evidence that the delay in receiving 
the certificates has resulted in significant tax implications for Mr and Mrs D or had any 
financial consequences (they waited six years before following up on the request). The 
pandemic is in part responsible for why these matters have dragged on so long (though Ive 
acknowledged Santander has delayed things)  and some of the back and forth was 
inevitable given the bank still needed clear copies of ID. Im also not persuaded by Mr and 
Mrs Ds argument that they could have won money by now if theyd had the funds sooner. 
That loss is far too speculative for me to consider. 
 
Putting things right
Ive noted what Mr and Mrs D have said, and I was very sorry to hear about how difficult and 
distressing things have been for them. I agree theres been some inconvenience caused 
through having to chase the bank, and the delays would also have been frustrating. But I 
dont consider the amount theyve requested would be in line with the level of awards this 
service makes for the impact Santander is responsible for here. 
Overall, I find £150 to be the fair amount in the circumstances, to compensate Mr and Mrs D 
for the impact resulting from Santanders mistakes. Im also directing the bank to set out 
specifically which proofs it has accepted and which it still requires clear certified copies of  
along with giving Mr and Mrs D a point of contact to send that information to, or order to 
finalise the process as quickly as possible. Once Mr and Mrs D have been verified, 
Santander should be able to update their address, send the tax certificates and arrange to 
close the account.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about Santander UK Plc, and direct 
the bank to: 
pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused;
write out to Mr and Mrs D to explain which verification documents it has accepted, 
and which it still requires clear certified copies of; and
provide a point of contact for Mr and Mrs D to send the remaining required proof to.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2022. 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman