DRN-2925207
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc refused to accept a claim under his home 
insurance.
What happened
Mr S had an AXA home insurance policy. In October 2018, he contacted his builder to report 
a leak in his bathroom shower tray. Mr S believed this was the result of poor workmanship 
by the same builder (referred to in this decision as D) when hed had a new bathroom 
installed in 2011. 
D inspected the damage in 2019. They found that water had run behind the wash hand basin 
and below the shower unit. This had decayed the timbers and the flooring below. D 
believed this was simply due to the high volume use of both shower and wash hand basin 
since the bathroom was installed, and explained that their standard guarantee was for two 
years. As the shower tray appeared to have been working correctly until 2018 the guarantee 
had expired, so D didnt accept liability for the damage.
Mr S referred this to AXA in June 2020. AXA asked D to review Mr Ss photos and 
comments about the cause of damage. Following Ds review, AXA rejected the claim. It said: 
It is apparent to us that the current issue relates to a long duration of intense use within the 
bathroom rather than any errors during the 2011 shower tray installation. It told Mr S that 
the repairs were no longer under warranty and his claim wasnt covered by his policy. 
Mr S didnt accept this so complained to this service. He wants AXA to refund him for the 
repairs hes had carried out to fix the damage.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
recent problems with the shower were the result of poor workmanship seven years earlier. 
She was satisfied by the evidence from AXAs expert that the damage was due to wear and 
tear so didnt think AXA acted unfairly by rejecting the claim.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S said: I strongly believe the base of shower was weakly fixed [and] over time just gave 
way because of the inadequate job by D in 2011. He provided photos showing the 
damage to the shower tray and flooring. He accepts that AXA asked him to provide his own 
expert report but says he was unable to arrange this during the coronavirus pandemic. 
I accept the pandemic caused problems. However, Mr Ss plumber carried out repairs to the 
bathroom in June 2020. I think Mr S might reasonably have asked his plumber to provide a 
report on the damage while he was carrying out these repairs. 
This means the only expert opinion Ive got is from D. That clearly says the damage is 
caused by intense use over time  in other words, wear and tear. While Id understand if D 
didnt want to admit poor workmanship, I think its conclusion is reasonable: S first reported 
problems with the shower tray more than five years after the bathroom was fitted. If the 
shower tray had been installed incorrectly, the leak would have been apparent immediately. 
Mr S said the shower tray was defective from the start. But if this was true I dont understand 
why he waited more than five years before complaining to D about the quality of their work. 
And I dont understand why he waited another 18 months before complaining to AXA. By this 
time, I think it was reasonable for AXA to rely on Ds 2019 inspection into the cause of 
damage.
On balance, I think Ds explanation for the cause of damage is reasonable. Damage due to 
wear and tear isnt covered by Mr Ss insurance, so I think AXAs refusal to consider Mr Ss 
claim was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman