DRN-3896552
The complaint
Mrs E complains about how Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with a claim against her travel 
insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs E has a multi-trip policy underwritten by Great Lakes. The 
policy started in January 2021 and expired in March 2022. Mrs E planned a family skiing 
trip for February 2022 but, unfortunately, her son was injured shortly before the date of 
departure. Mrs E cancelled the trip. 
On 28 March 2022, Mrs E made a claim against her policy. On 13 April 2022,          
Great Lakes asked for additional documentation. Mrs E responded on the same date. On         
3 May 2022, Mrs E chased Great Lakes for a response and complained about the delay 
in dealing with her claim. On 13 June 2022, Great Lakes apologised for the delay and 
said that Mrs Es claim was being reassessed.
On 22 June 2022, Great Lakes asked Mrs E for documentation she had provided 
previously. Mrs E replied by return. On 12 July 2022, Great Lakes settled Mrs Es claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Great Lakes 
had treated Mrs E fairly. The investigator recommended that Great Lakes pay Mrs E 
compensation of £100 in relation to its delay in dealing with the claim and poor service. 
Great Lakes didnt agree with the investigator. It said that whilst there had been a delay 
in dealing with the claim, there had been an unprecedented uptake in travel which had 
caused issues across the travel industry. Great Lakes said that it had apologised to    
Mrs E and was trying to return to its service levels. It asked that an ombudsman consider 
the matter, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. Its common ground that there were delays in dealing with Mrs Es 
claim. Mrs E submitted her claim on 28 March 2022 and Great Lakes settled it on               
12 July 2022. Thats much longer that wed expect. In addition, Great Lakes asked Mrs E to 
provide documentation shed already provided. 
Great Lakes handling of Mrs Es claim meant that she was kept out of the use of her money 
and she spent time chasing Great Lakes. That was no doubt inconvenient. 
Ive noted what Great Lakes says. I dont think that an apology is sufficient in this case given 
the level of distress and inconvenience Great Lakes handling of the claim caused Mrs E. 
Great Lakes says that its poor handling of the claim was because of an unprecedented 
uptake in travel. It hasnt supported that assertion with any evidence. In any event, I dont 
think that increased levels of travel justifies a three and a half month delay in handling a 
fairly straight forward claim. I think that compensation of £100 in relation to Mrs Es distress 
and inconvenience is fair and reasonable in this case. In reaching that view, Ive taken into 
account the nature, extent and duration of Mrs Es distress and inconvenience caused by 
Great Lakes handling of her claim.   
Mrs E has been kept out of the use of her money. To compensation for that Great Lakes 
should also pay interest on the amount of the settlement of the claim from the date of the 
claim to the date it made payment. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Great Lakes should pay Mrs E:
compensation of £100 in relation to her distress and inconvenience and
interest on the settlement amount at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date she  
made her claim to the date it made the payment.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Great Lakes to take off tax from this interest. Great Lakes 
must give Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Es complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE should now 
take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman