DRN-3261552
The complaint
Mr G complains that My Safe Home Limited treated him unfairly when he tried to apply for a 
specialist mortgage. Mr G complains that because of My Safe Homes actions he now finds 
himself unable to apply for a mortgage. 
Mr G would like My Safe Home to reconsider his case and put forward an application for the 
mortgage he wants.
What happened
On 30 November 2021 Mr G and his partner had a conference call with My Safe Home, a 
specialist mortgage broker, to explore whether he was eligible for a HOLD (home ownership 
for people with long term disabilities) interest only mortgage. Mr G wanted to apply for the 
HOLD scheme that enables people with long term disabilities to move to more suitable 
property. Applicants are reliant on benefit entitlements to make mortgage interest payments. 
Mr G says that he was told by My Safe Home at the end of this call that hed be eligible for 
the HOLD mortgage. The next stage was that My Safe Home would help him to apply for a 
mortgage from a specialist lender. On 1 December 2021 My Safe Home says Mr G asked 
whether his partner would be able to jointly apply for the mortgage. And whether it would 
affect his mortgage if she was to move into the property in the future. 
Following the further conversations, on 2 December 2021 My Safe Home said the 
application couldnt proceed because of changing information shared with it about who might 
live and stay in the property and where the deposit was coming from.
Mr G complained to My Safe Home. On 8 December 2021 My Safe Home issued a final 
response to Mr Gs complaint. It said due to changing information given by Mr G during the 
mortgage advice process and while making the application, it could no longer recommend 
this type of mortgage to him. It said, among other factors, that the more recent answers 
given by Mr G might affect his benefit entitlement and, as a result, his ability to afford the 
mortgage.
Mr G was unhappy with My Safe Homes response and referred his complaint to us. Our 
investigator didnt think the complaint should succeed. Mr G disagreed with the investigators 
findings. He asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint again and reach a final decision 
on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr G and My Safe Home that Ive looked carefully at all the information 
provided by both parties before reaching my final decision on this complaint. Im familiar with 
the HOLD mortgage product. And Im aware of My Safe Homes process through which 
applicants receive advice about this specialist interest only mortgage product, where 
mortgage interest is primarily paid by Support for Mortgage Interest benefits. 
As part of my evaluation of whats fair and reasonable in this complaint, Ive considered 
relevant mortgage regulation. The provision of mortgage advice is a regulated financial 
product. And My Safe Home had a duty to take reasonable steps under mortgage regulation 
to make sure that the transaction was suitable for Mr G. Once My Safe Home became aware 
of changing needs and circumstances of Mr G, I think it was reasonable for it to reassess its 
determination of whether this mortgage was appropriate to Mr Gs needs and circumstances 
based on the facts disclosed by the customer and other relevant facts about the customer of 
which the firm is or should reasonably be aware. 
On 2 December 2021 My Safe Home says it explained to Mr G why it was concerned about 
his application proceeding any further. Ive seen the email shared with Mr G in which is set 
out why it no longer believed the application was in Mr Gs best interests considering new 
and conflicting information provided to it. 
My Safe Homes concerns centred around whether Mr G would be living in the property 
alone, or whether his partner would be moving in with him. I note Mr Gs partner was present 
at the initial exploratory interview between My Safe Home and Mr G. And notes of this first 
conference call record that Mr Gs partner was planning to provide part of the deposit. 
My Safe Home says initially Mr G had said his partner wouldnt be living at the property. 
However, he then asked the next day whether she could become a joint applicant and live in 
the property and what that would mean for the application. My Safe Home also say that Mr 
Gs partner separately emailed it to say she planned to stay at the property some of the time 
each week.
Mr Gs says that he didnt ask for his partner to be added to the application. He only wanted 
to ask the question and explore this as a possibility. Mr G says My Safe Home is incorrect 
about what it says happened. And that once My Safe Home started reviewing his situation 
and asking more questions, he wanted to go ahead with the application on his own as he 
didnt want to slow the process down.  
Ive seen the initial fact find document that recorded discussions between My Safe Home, Mr 
G and his partner on 30 November. And Ive seen the handwritten notes added by My Safe 
Home following the second phone conversation with Mr G on 1 December. There are also 
emails exchanged on 2 December when its clear that Mr G becomes frustrated that he 
hasnt received a decision in principle yet. Mr G wanted to go ahead with the mortgage and 
purchasing the property quickly or he fears it will go back on the market.
Ive thought carefully about My Safe Homes actions following this exchange of information 
and whether it acted reasonably. I appreciate Mr Gs comments that his options are limited 
as more mainstream mortgage lending isnt available to him. Im also aware that My Safe 
Home is a specialist mortgage broker that offers advice and support applying for this type of 
mortgage and that HOLD mortgages arent readily available through other brokers. 
Having taken all the wider circumstances of this complaint into account, Im satisfied that My 
Safe Home acted reasonably in re-evaluating whether this mortgage would be in Mr Gs best 
interests both at present and in the foreseeable future. It became concerned about the 
potential risks to Mr G and his partner. And I believe that it acted fairly in response to 
changing information about Mr Gs financial situation and plans by deciding not to proceed 
with a transaction that may have proved unaffordable to Mr G in the near future.
My Safe Home quickly told Mr G about the concerns it had about additional information 
shared with it, and the impact this might have for Mr Gs financial situation. This is especially pertinent for Mr G as hed be reliant on benefits such as Support for Mortgage Interest to 
meet his monthly interest payments. And if Mr Gs partner were to move into the property 
and continue to work this would affect Mr Gs ability to claim benefits, reduce his income and 
quickly make the mortgage unaffordable. 
My Safe Home set out the risks for Mr Gs partner too in terms of her having no legal right 
over the property and potentially losing her deposit if the property was sold and the Support 
for Mortgage Interest loan was sold to repay the loan balance. I think this was also 
appropriate to mention in the circumstances. 
It appears a joint application wouldnt have been able to proceed as a HOLD mortgage 
because Mr Gs partner had some employment income. And, even if it had been possible, as 
Mr G has made clear, he wasnt living with his partner at the time of the application and so 
this wasnt the primary basis upon which he wanted to take out the mortgage. 
While I understand that Mr G will be disappointed by my decision, I dont think that My Safe 
Home acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman