DRN-4178675
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that they were unable to transfer their mortgage offer with 
Nationwide Building Society to a new property they chose when the first sale had fallen 
through. They also complain about the advice given to their broker by Nationwide and the 
handling of their complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G applied through a broker for a mortgage and got a mortgage offer on a house 
they were buying in July 2022.The application was to borrow £387,000.00 on a ten-year 
mortgage product with a fixed interest rate of 2.24%. That purchase fell through. They then 
saw another house they liked in November 2022 and asked their broker to contact the 
Society to see if the offer could be ported to this other house. The broker says he was told 
that this could be done using a transfer property form. But when Mr and Mrs G submitted the 
form they were told that a transfer was only possible at the application stage and not if it 
went to offer as here. Mr and Mrs G engaged solicitors on 7 November and paid £400 on 13 
November towards searches and asked the broker to request the property transfer form 
which he did on 17 November. But Nationwide said that they couldnt transfer the property 
after an offer was made. Mr and Mrs G say that this the new house poses less risk than the 
previous one as it costs less, and they are putting down a significant deposit.
Nationwide says that a mortgage product can only be ported after a mortgage completes. 
But in this case completion hadnt taken place. Its policy is not to transfer a mortgage offer to 
another property but requires the borrower to make a new application for a new property. It 
has no record of a call with Mr and Mrs Gs broker in November but accepts that Mr and Mrs 
G were told incorrectly that the broker was given incorrect information thar a transfer was 
possible.. It offered compensation of £100 for the incorrect information. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Nationwide pay further compensation as the 
mortgage offer didnt say it could be transferred and the information on the intermediaries 
website should have alerted the broker to the fact that if an offer was issued and the sale fell 
through that a new application was required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I may not comment on everything raised by both parties as they have both provided
detailed submissions, Ive thoroughly read and considered all the evidence and
arguments from both sides. My decision focuses on the relevant key issues, and on what I
consider fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
The core of this complaint is Mr and Mrs G wanted Nationwide to transfer their mortgage 
offer from one property to another after their first sale had fallen through, but Nationwide 
didnt agree. The issue I have to consider was whether this was fair. Of some significance in 
this is that this was a broker sale to Mr and Mrs G. The brokers role is to determine whether 
this mortgage was suitable for Mr and Mrs G and thats not an issue for Nationwide. Some 
lenders allow their borrowers to transfer their mortgage if a sale falls through and some 
dont. Whether the ability to transfer a mortgage is significant to a borrower, I imagine 
depends on whether they anticipate a sale falling through. Before the sale fell through, the 
transferability may not have been important as theyve indicated that the significant factors in 
their choice were the interest rate and length of the fixed term. In any case Mr and Mrs G 
chose, following the recommendation of their broker. this mortgage with Nationwide. 
The mortgage offer itself is simply an offer applicable to a particular property, but it does not 
promise transferability. There is a reference to porting the mortgage product to a new 
mortgage with Nationwide on a new property subject to lending criteria but thats to facilitate 
house moving where a mortgage has completed, and the borrowers would otherwise pay an 
early repayment charge. It doesnt facilitate the transfer of the mortgage offer, and its all 
subject to Nationwides lending criteria.
Nationwides lending criteria doesnt allow transfers of the mortgage offer to other properties 
after the offer has issued. That is apparent from the information theyve supplied during the 
course of this complaint from their website for intermediaries which would have been 
available to the broker. That has a section How do I change the property details? which 
says that if the application hasnt been submitted that the security address can be changed 
but if it has been fully submitted, as is the case here, the address cant be amended, and the 
broker needs to cancel the application and start a new one. As I say the policy on 
transferability differs between lenders and if Mr and Mrs G were with another lender when 
the sale fell through their position might well have been different. But Nationwide had fairly 
set out its position on how it dealt with changes to the mortgage offer which was available to 
the broker and via the broker to Mr and Mrs G on its website at this time. As Nationwide 
followed its lending criteria I cant fairly find Nationwide at fault.  
But when Mr and Mrs G lost their intended purchase and went to the broker to see if the 
offer could be transferred, they were initially told that Nationwides position was different. Ive 
seen a message from the broker to Mr and Mrs G of 7 November 2022 where he tells Mr 
and Mrs G that Nationwide offered the ability to switch the mortgage offer to a different 
property. I understand the broker to say that he got that information from Nationwide 
although in that message he doesnt refer to the source of that information. In any event 
Nationwide accepts that it may have conveyed incorrect information to the broker in a phone 
call but points out that the broker could have looked at the website for intermediaries to 
ascertain Nationwides correct position. 
I have set out above what that website says. I note that with websites being upgraded 
constantly, Mrs G reasonably asked for confirmation that this information was available in 
late 2022 and hasnt been changed since then. The Society tells us that the relevant section 
hasnt been changed and has provided evidence about that, so I accept that the likely 
information held on the website at that stage was as set out in the paragraph above.   
Mr and Mrs G continued with their house purchase in the hope that the mortgage offer could 
be changed but it shortly afterwards emerged that Nationwide was sticking with its policy 
although it was also suggested that the underwriters may have been able to override 
although this proved not to be the case. Mr and Mrs G in any event went ahead with the 
purchase with a new and more expensive mortgage with another lender. 
There was an error here by Nationwide in the information it supplied by phone to the broker 
and Mr and Mrs G should be compensated for the disappointment caused by the incorrect 
information coming from Nationwide. As Mr and Mrs G went ahead with the purchase, my 
view is that any costs they would have incurred, they would have incurred in any event regardless of the incorrect information by Nationwide. I dont accept their suggestion that 
they went ahead with such a substantial purchase merely because they paid search fees 
after Nationwides discussion with the broker. Nor can I fairly require Nationwide to pay for 
any costs associated with their failure to buy their first property resulting from the purchaser 
pulling out of the sale and not the fault of Nationwide. I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs G were 
also unhappy with Nationwides handling of the complaint. Our service deals with complaints 
about financial services provided by businesses but complaints handling itself isnt a 
financial service and isnt within our jurisdiction.
I accept that Mr and Mrs G must be disappointed that Nationwide stuck with its policy but as 
I dont consider that unfair I cant fairly compensate them for that. I also have to accept that 
although Nationwide made an error, that was corrected shortly afterwards and that the 
correct information was there for the broker on the intermediaries website. So, I believe that 
the offer of £100 compensation from Nationwide is fair and dont require it to pay further 
compensation.   
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint 
and I think the offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Nationwide Building Society pays Mr and Mrs G £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman