DRN-2868927
The complaint
Mr D complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly charged 
him for excess mileage under a hire purchase agreement and the information BMWFS gave 
him was inconsistent.
What happened
In June 2016, Mr D acquired a car using a hire purchase agreement from BMWFS. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £40,456.27. Mr D was required to make 48 monthly 
payments of £524.44 and there was a final optional payment of £13,557.59 if he wished to 
buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr D had the right to terminate the agreement at any time before 
the final payment was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the car 
and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. The agreement set out this was 
£20,228.14.
In February 2020, Mr D asked to terminate the agreement and BMWFS sent him a voluntary 
termination pack with a form to complete and return. Mr D returned the car, but he says that 
shortly afterwards, BMWFS told him hed need to pay an excess mileage charge of 
£2,662.09 because hed exceeded the mileage allowance by 28,502 miles.
The agreement set out that Mr D had an annual mileage allowance of 12,000 and a total 
mileage allowance of 48,000. It said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS could 
charge him 9.34 pence for every mile that he exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the 
event he terminated the agreement early, the mileage allowance would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire.
Mr D doesnt think an excess mileage charge is due. He says the hire purchase agreement 
limits his liability to one half of the total price payable - £20,228.14  and as hes already 
paid this with his monthly repayments, he says he cant be compelled to pay anymore to 
BMWFS. He says he doesnt think that BMWFS shouldnt be able to record this on his credit 
file.
BMWFS rejected this complaint. It said the charges for excess mileage were set out in the 
finance agreement Mr D signed in June 2016, and that they become payable under the hire 
purchase agreement prior to termination. And it said that the voluntary termination notice 
clearly set out that mileage would be pro-rated if the agreement ends early.
BMWFS says mileage limitation is a fair measure of what would constitute reasonable care 
of the Vehicle given that it can affect its value upon resale. It said that exceeding the 
Maximum Total Mileage agreed upon commencement of the Agreement, is likely to have 
caused the Vehicle to have decreased in value more than it otherwise might have done had 
the agreed mileage been adhered to and because of this it should be compensated 
accordingly. It said it was confident that it hadnt acted incorrectly and that its charge was an 
accurate reflection of the additional mileage incurred.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that BMWFS 
had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). She also found that the 
terms of the agreement were clear around the possibility of an excess mileage charge being 
payable on voluntary termination.
In summary, she said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities a consumer has on termination. 
In brief, on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total price is defined by S189 CCA as the total sum payable under 
the hire purchase agreement. It does not include charges for items that are payable 
as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges for 
breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities that the consumer accrued prior to termination are not 
to be affected by the termination. 
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage charges will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr Ds agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before termination and was therefore not affected by the termination. 
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage charges must therefore be included in 
the total price of the agreement. 
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mr Ds accrued liability under S100 therefore included 
paying an additional amount of £2,662.09.
The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage 
would be charged, when it would accrue and how much it would cost. 
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded. 
When considering all the terms of the agreement as a whole, she was satisfied it was 
made clear and not misleading about when an excess mileage charge could be 
applied and for how much. She was therefore satisfied it was fair and reasonable for 
BMWFS to charge the additional amount. 
Mr D disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. Mr D says hed paid for the car and 
terminated the agreement, so it isnt right that the excess mileage charge applies. And it 
wasnt right that BMWFS could report a default on his credit file for non-payment of the 
excess mileage charge.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement 
allowed Mr D use of the car for the duration of the agreement. He also had the option to 
purchase the car outright at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£13,557.59.While Mr D was entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain conditions, such as 
maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum mileage each year and 
overall throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement set out what would happen 
should Mr D not meet those requirements.
Mr D exercised his right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances, voluntary 
termination allows the hirer to simply hand back the car without having to pay anything more. 
But this is dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to the agreement, 
whether there are arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and whether any excess 
mileage or other charges are due. 
In this case Mr D disputes the excess mileage charge of £2,662.09 that he has been asked 
to pay. 
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of 
Mr Ds hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination. Various 
sections of the agreement Mr D had with BMWFS also referred to the liability on early 
termination, including where excess mileage, damage charges or other charges may 
increase the final liability.
Whether or not it is fair for a lender to apply the charge will be unique to every case, as it will 
depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered into. In other words, what I 
have to decide is, has the agreement been constructed in a way as to allow the charging for 
excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the CCA regarding voluntary 
termination? In Mr Ds specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why. 
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to 
termination are not affected by the termination. What this means is that Mr D is liable to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these 
charges are in addition to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mr Ds hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess Mileage 
Charges for Depreciation. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges 
will apply if that mileage is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the 
mileage allowance will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your obligation to 
pay any excess mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied 
Mr Ds agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue. 
The agreement also has a sectioned headed Termination: Your Rights. This section 
contains specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in 
summary sets out that so long as Mr D has paid at least half the total amount payable under 
the agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about whether this conflicts 
with the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges for 
exceeding the mileage might apply. 
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think the agreement is 
either unclear or misleading concerning the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains 
that the excess mileage charge can be applied in addition to other charges for voluntary 
termination. I dont therefore consider that the way this specific agreement has been 
constructed has prejudiced Mr D.  
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows that Mr D is liable to pay the excess mileage charge and that this is consistent with what is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.  
Mr D says that its unfair for BMWFS to report arrears on his credit file in relation to his 
agreement. However, if Mr D hasnt paid all the sums which fell due when he terminated the 
agreement early, I cant reasonably say that what BMWFS is reporting is either inaccurate, 
unfair or unreasonable. 
Overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr D.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman