DRN-3378416
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way Moneybarn No 1 Limited handled his account.
What happened
In November 2017 Mr L was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. The cash price of the car was £9000, with a total amount 
repayable of £18,177 payable by monthly instalments of £303 over 5 years.
In 2019 Mr L experienced some personal and financial difficulties. He contacted Moneybarn 
to advise them that he was out of work and hat he was considering his debt management 
options. Mr L also made Moneybarn aware of his mental and physical health concerns.
Moneybarn gave Mr L a breathing space to enable him to decide what he was going to do.
In June 2019 Moneybarn sent an arrears letter to Mr L. It gave him the option of ending the 
agreement and signposted him to organisations who could offer help with his financial 
circumstances.
Moneybarn gave Mr L the following options:
Voluntary termination £4,123.50
Hand back/surrender £8,768.40
Early settlement £9,110.16
Default termination £9,817.81
Mr L contacted Moneybarn and said he wanted to voluntary terminate the agreement. 
Moneybarn processed the voluntary termination and issued a final balance letter to Mr L.
Mr L contacted Moneybarn in August and September and explained that he was in financial 
difficulties. Moneybarn gave him a further 30 days breathing space.
Mr L subsequently raise a complaint with Moneybarn. He felt hed been treated unfairly and 
said his credit score had been affected. Mr L queried the outstanding balance and said the 
amount hed been asked to pay was too much. Mr L asked Moneybarn to waive the arrears 
and pay compensation for the stress it had caused him.
In response, Moneybarn acknowledged that Mr L had made them aware of his difficulties 
and said it had responded by applying breathing space to the account. Moneybarn said it 
had explained the exit options available to Mr L and had made him aware of what the 
outstanding amount would be if he chose to voluntary terminate. Moneybarn said it had 
reported negative information on Mr Ls credit file due to the arrears which had accrued from 
December 2018 to June 2019, and said that following voluntary termination in June 2019, an 
unclassified marker had been reported. Moneybarn asked Mr L to contact them to discuss 
setting up an affordable payment plan.
Mr L wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service. Hes unhappy 
that his credit score has been affected and wants the outstanding balance written off.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She said she was satisfied that Moneybarn 
had provided details of the various options for ending the agreement early to Mr L and that 
he had chosen the best possible outcome in terms of how much hed need to pay. The 
investigator said she was satisfied that the calculations were correct and that Moneybarn 
had acted fairly in offering Mr L payment plans and breathing space. The investigator didnt 
think that Moneybarn had responded to Mr L in a timely manner and/or hadnt addressed the 
specific points he had raised when he emailed them in August and September 2019. She 
said that Moneybarn should pay compensation to Mr L for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr L didnt agree. He said that Moneybarn had disposed of the car too cheaply at auction 
leaving him with a large balance to pay. He said hed been told by Moneybarn that he owed 
£9000 less whatever the car sold for.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the contact notes and letters. I can see that Mr L made Moneybarn aware of 
his financial difficulties in early 2019, and that in response, Moneybarn gave Mr L breathing 
space and set out the available options for ending the agreement early.
The contact notes show that Mr L advised Moneybarn on 28 June 2019 that he wanted to 
voluntary terminate the agreement. At the time the car was returned, the outstanding 
account balance was £13,212.00. the halfway point amount (half of the total amount payable 
under the agreement) was £9,088.50, leaving Mr L with £4,123.50 to pay.
Mr Ls complaint is that Moneybarn treated him unfairly and that he was asked to pay too 
much for the car. Ive focussed on these issues.
When a consumer is experiencing financial difficulties, Id expect a provider of credit to 
respond positively and sympathetically. I can see that Moneybarn gave Mr L breathing 
space, offered a payment arrangement and set out the available options for ending the 
agreement early. It also asked Mr L to make contact to arrange an affordable payment plan 
for the outstanding balance. Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that Moneybarn 
responded positively and sympathetically to Mr L.
Mr L has said that he was told by Moneybarn that he owed around £9000 minus what the car 
sold for. Ive looked at the letter which sets out the available options for early settlement 
which Moneybarn sent to Mr L. Theres nothing in the letter which suggests early settlement 
in the way that Mr L has described. I cant see anything in the contact notes to support what 
Mr L has said. I wasnt present when Mr L discussed his options with Moneybarn over the 
phone so I cant be certain of what was said. But it seems that there has been some 
confusion between voluntary termination (which is the option Mr L chose) and voluntary 
surrender. With a voluntary termination, you repay 50% of the total amount repayable under 
the agreement. 50% of the total amount repayable under Mr Ls agreement was £9,088.50, 
and his account balance was £13,212.00, which is how the outstanding balance of 
£4,123.50 was calculated. There are no further adjustments to make in a voluntary 
termination (provided that the car is returned in good condition), so the price that the car is 
sold for at auction makes no difference to the outstanding amount of £4,123.50. 
In a voluntary surrender, the car is given back, and the consumer owes the outstanding balance (in this case £13,212.00). the finance company sell the car and deduct the net sale 
proceeds from the outstanding balance, leaving the consumer liable for the remainder.
As Ive said, I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr L was told that the outstanding 
balance was £9000 and that the net sale proceeds of the car would be deducted from this 
figure. Based on what Ive seen, Moneybarn set out all of the options for ending the 
agreement early and Mr L chose the cheapest option of voluntary termination.  
Im unable to say that Moneybarn has acted unfairly or unreasonably here, so I wont be 
asking them to write off the balance. Nor do I think its fair for me to ask Moneybarn to 
remove the adverse information from Mr Ls credit file, because the information reported 
reflects the fact that the account was in arrears for the first part of 2019, before the 
agreement was voluntary terminated.
I appreciate that this has been a difficult time for Mr L. I can see that he wrote to Moneybarn 
more than once and didnt receive a timely reply. I think Moneybarn couldve done more to 
respond to Mr L during this time, so I think its fair to ask it to pay compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.    
Putting things right
To put things right, Moneybarn No 1 Limited must pay compensation of £100 to Mr L.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Moneybarn No 1 Limited must pay 
compensation of £100 to Mr L for distress and inconvenience.. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman