DRN-3967715
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about delays caused by U K Insurance Limited trading as Darwin in 
providing a courtesy car when she made a claim under her car insurance policy. 
Mr T, a named driver under the policy, is complaining on Mrs Ts behalf. So for ease Ill refer 
to Mr T for the most part in my decision. 
What happened
On 25 November 2022 Mrs T had an incident with her car (no other party was involved) and 
she made a claim to her insurer, Darwin. 
In December 2022 Mrs T complained about the delay in having her car inspected by an 
engineer to establish if it could be repaired or not. During this time Mrs T was without her car 
and Mr T says he had to drive Mrs T for various reasons. Mr T said they have elderly parents 
and not having Mrs Ts car was causing inconvenience. 
In December 2022 Darwin upheld the complaint. It apologised for causing a delay in 
arranging for Mrs Ts car to be inspected. The decision was that the car wasnt economical 
to repair, and so Darwin settled the claim by paying the market value for the car. 
Darwin explained that there are two levels of cover Mrs T could choose from when she 
bought the policy in relation to courtesy car cover. As Mrs T had opted for the basic level of 
cover, she was only entitled to a courtesy car for the duration of repairs by an approved 
repairer. 
As Mrs Ts car wasnt repairable, she wasnt entitled to a courtesy car. But Darwin 
acknowledged that it had taken longer than it should have to reach this decision. It said it 
usually takes around a week to make this type of decision - but in this case it had taken 12 
working days longer. 
For the inconvenience caused by its delay, it paid £150 compensation. 
Mr T brought the complaint to us as he said the compensation award wasnt enough to 
reflect the inconvenience caused. He raised a new complaint which is being dealt with 
separately. 
Our Investigator thought Darwin had done enough to resolve the complaint. 
Mr T didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When things go wrong we look at what the impact was and what an insurer did to put things 
right. The compensation amounts we award are modest and are to reflect any distress and 
inconvenience caused by an insurer where it has acted unreasonably. 
Its reasonable to except a degree of disruption to daily life when having to deal with a claim. 
Fortunately it isnt an everyday occurrence - but its inevitable that there will be some 
inconvenience. 
Darwins failure here is that it took too long to reach a decision as to whether Mrs Ts car 
was repairable. The delay was 12 working days as this was over what would be considered 
a reasonable period of time to decide a claim as a total loss. 
I understand Mr T doesnt agree the compensation awarded of £150 is enough. But in line 
with our approach - and taking into account the overall delay which meant the inconvenience 
was for longer than reasonable - I think Darwin has paid a fair compensation amount. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T. But my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman