The complaint
Mrs T complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs T bought the policy in 2002 in connection with a store card. I issued a provisional 
decision for this complaint on 27 April 2020. I've summarised my provisional findings below:
Mrs T had told us she was entitled to generous sick pay from her employer if she
couldn't work, and that she had some savings. Our adjudicator considered the
combination of the sick pay Mrs T said she had, and her savings meant she could
manage for long enough not to need the PPI. So the adjudicator didn't think Mrs T
would've bought the policy if she'd had better information about its cost and benefit.
AXA disputed Mrs T's level of sick pay, and I'd seen evidence to suggest it was
probably lower than Mrs T originally thought. Mrs T also confirmed this was the case.
When I took account of the revised level of sick pay, on balance I wasn't persuaded
Mrs T would've made a different decision about buying the policy if she'd had better
information about its cost and benefit.
It was possible other information AXA gave Mrs T about the PPI wasn't as clear as it
should've been. But it was unlikely Mrs T would've been affected by any of the main
things the policy didn't cover. So I didn't think better information would've stopped her
buying it.
Mrs T bought the PPI over the phone, some time after she'd taken out her store card.
So I thought she would've known the PPI was optional, and wasn't a condition of
taking out the store card.
AXA didn't recommend the PPI to Mrs T so it didn't have to check if it was suitable for
her. But even if AXA had recommended the policy, I didn't consider Mrs T's
circumstances meant the PPI was unsuitable for her.
Overall, I wasn't persuaded the PPI was mis-sold.
Mrs T and AXA didn't make any further representations in response to my provisional 
decision.
DRN-1909157What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I've taken this into account in deciding Mrs T's case.
In the absence of any further representations from the parties, I see no reason to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman