DRN-1757411
The complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) mishandled a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B had a car on finance from a bank. 
For the year from 26 September 2019, he had an insurance policy under which UKI was 
responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to UKI, I include claims-handlers, repairers 
and others insofar as I hold UKI responsible for their actions.
Mr B agreed to pay the yearly premium by monthly instalments.
On 2 December 2019, Mr B and a third party were involved in a car accident. Each of them 
reported being injured. UKI arranged collection of Mr Bs car. While it assessed repair of his 
car, UKI provided Mr B with a courtesy car. 
On 5 December 2019, UKI said Mr B had been at fault for the accident.
On 10 December 2019 UKI said Mr B's car was beyond economic repair and it was a 
category B total loss. It asked him to return the courtesy car. On 12 December 2019, Mr B 
visited the repairer and later complained about rudeness. He didnt want to lose the car.
UKI said the pre-accident value of Mr Bs car had been £3,325.00. It deducted a policy 
excess of £650.00 and paid the balance of £2,675.00 to the bank. Later it increased the pre-
accident valuation to £3,746.00 and paid a further £421.00 to the bank.
UKI said it wouldnt compensate Mr B for his injury.
Mr B complained to UKI about all of this. UKI told Mr B of his right to bring his complaint to 
us. Mr B brought his complaint to us on 19 December 2019.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
UKI had handled the claim fairly.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion, but he didnt provide any further detail. The 
investigator asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr B reported being injured in the accident. His policy with UKI didnt 
cover injuries to himself. So in order to achieve compensation, Mr B would have to show that 
the third party was liable.
Its common practice for an insurer to treat a claim as a fault claim unless and until the 
insurer recovers its outlay. Most insurance policies allow an insurer to decide how to deal 
with a claim involving a third party.
Mr Bs policy with UKI included the following term:
We are entitled to:
 take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in
your name
The effect of that term is that  on the question of liability to a third party - UKIs view will 
prevail over Mr Bs. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service will consider whether an insurer has applied such a term 
fairly. Unlike a court, we dont hear evidence from all parties and decide the extent to which 
any of them is responsible for causing injury or damage.
Im satisfied that UKI considered the nature and location of the damage to each vehicle. UKI 
also took into account Mr Bs report of the accident. 
Mr B said he had pulled out of a side road as a vehicle turned off the main road into the side 
road. Mr B pulled into the path of another vehicle on the main road. That third party made a 
claim and UKI it had to decide how to deal with it.
UKI took the view that Mr B shouldve given way to the third party. UKI decided not to incur 
the cost and risk of contesting liability to the third party. I cant say that decision was 
unreasonable or unfair to Mr B. I appreciate that it is likely to cost him money in later 
insurance premiums.
Mr Bs policy with UKI included the following term:
If you make a claim and your car is repaired by an approved repairer, they will 
give you a courtesy car whilst your car is being repaired. The courtesy car is 
intended to keep you mobile whilst the repairs are carried out
UKI decided on 10 December 2019 not to repair Mr Bs car. So I dont consider that it treated 
Mr B unfairly when it asked him to return the courtesy car.
Mr B visited UKIs repairer on 12 December. Ive seen allegation and counter- allegation of 
rudeness. As Mr B was in a stressful position and the repairer was in its usual course of 
business, Im not persuaded that the repairer was rude to Mr B.
UKI thought the bank rather than Mr B was the owner of the car. And it was a category B 
write- off. So I dont consider that UKI treated Mr B unfairly by not allowing him to take the 
damaged car,
The policy provided that UKI would pay no more than the pre-accident value of the car. 
Such a value may be less than the amount of finance outstanding on the car. So there is 
sometimes a gap between the finance outstanding and the amount paid by the insurer for 
the pre-accident value less the excess.
Ive noted the make, model, age and recorded mileage of Mr Bs car. Ive worked on the 
basis that it was in good condition before the accident.In assessing whether UKI applied a fair valuation, Ive checked that UKI used trade guides 
and Ive checked trade guide figures. Im satisfied that UKI applied a fair process and came 
to a fair valuation. 
Mr Bs policy with UKI included the following term:
If your car is currently on a hire purchase or financing agreement (except leasing) 
we will settle the claim by paying the legal owner.
We will only pay you any remaining balance if ownership of your car is to be 
transferred to you at the end of the hire purchase or financing agreement.
If your car is on a leasing agreement, we will settle the claim by paying the legal 
owner.
From what Mr B and UKI have each said, the bank was the legal owner of the car and there 
was more outstanding than £3,746.00. So I cant say UKI treated Mr B unfairly by paying the 
bank rather than Mr B.
Mr Bs policy with UKI included the following term about cancellation:
We will not refund any premium if you have made a claim or if one has been made 
against you during the period of cover (regardless of whether you pay annually or by 
monthly instalments under a credit agreement).
If you pay by instalments under a credit agreement you must pay to us:
1) all instalment payments that have already fallen due under the credit agreement 
and remain unpaid; and
2) the total remaining balance under the credit agreement.
So I cant say that UKI treated Mr B unfairly by asking him to continue paying the monthly 
instalments until the end of the policy year.
Overall, I dont find that UKI treated Mr B unfairly. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
UKI to do anything further in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman