DRN-3927359
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) failed to take account of a
payment she made to settle her account and were therefore wrong to report adverse
information to the credit reference agencies.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Theres no dispute here that Creation made a mistake. They failed to attribute a payment
Mrs B made towards her account in December 2020.
I can see that the payment was eventually identified and credited towards the account
settlement in May 2022, but it wasnt until December 2022 that Creation confirmed to us that
they had removed the adverse reports they had been continuing to make to the credit
reference agencies.
Im pleased to see that the issue has now been resolved but its clearly now necessary for
Creation to compensate Mrs B for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
Putting things right
Creation caused quite a bit of distress and inconvenience here as they failed to credit a
payment to Mrs Bs account and when they recognised that error they also failed to amend
the adverse reports they were making to the credit reference agencies. The error persisted
for a long time and once the mistake had been identified I think Creation should have
recognised the distress they had caused and have provided some compensation, but they
didnt.
Mrs B has explained, and Creation accept, that she was in regular contact with the business
to get this issue resolved. Shes told us shes been very upset about the matter and that
shes been unable to sleep and has been tearful. I can see that she had made Creation
aware that the issue was affecting her health as their system notes show she told them the
matter was making her sick in October 2021. I think the default on her credit file may have
made it more difficult for Mrs B to obtain credit, but Ive not seen evidence of that or of any
financial difficulty as a result of the credit file report.
Ive considered how much Creation should pay Mrs B to compensate her for the distress and
inconvenience caused and I dont think £250 is sufficient in the circumstances. I think this
issue has created considerable distress, upset, and worry for Mrs B and shes had to make
significant efforts to sort it out. The impact has been prolonged, and the business response
has been slow, especially as they were aware that the matter was affecting Mrs Bs health.
In the circumstances, I think Creation should pay Mrs B £500 to compensate her for the
distress and inconvenience shes been caused.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Creation
Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mrs B £500 in compensation in respect of the distress and
inconvenience shes experienced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B didnt provide any further information and Creation accepted my provisional decision 
with no further comments.
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with any new information that would lead me to change my 
provisional decision and that provisional decision now becomes my final decision on this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im telling Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mrs B 
£500 in compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman