DRN-2869460
The complaint
Mrs M complains that a sofa that shes paying for using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Hitachi Capital (UK) plc, trading as Hitachi Personal Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mrs M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi Personal Finance in March 2019 
to pay for a sofa. The price of the sofa was £2,682, she made an advance repayment of 
£532 and agreed to make 36 monthly loan repayments of £59.16. The loan was interest free.
Delivery of the sofa was delayed and it was damaged when it was delivered. A replacement 
was arranged but that too was damaged so a third sofa was ordered but a pre-delivery 
inspection found that it was also damaged  and by then the sofa had been discontinued. 
Mrs M claimed a refund of the cost of the sofa from Hitachi Personal Finance under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It arranged for the sofa to be inspected by a furniture 
specialist in August 2020. The inspection report identified a manufacturing fault with the way 
that the legs had been fitted but that the issue with the power mechanism had been caused 
by it bending when hitting against the wall in front of it. A repair of the legs was 
recommended but Mrs M complained to this service.
She said that the supplier had offered previously her a price reduction of £400 in addition to 
replacing the sofa but the payment hadnt been received. She said that she wanted the sofa 
repaired, the £400 price reduction and compensation for the upset and inconvenience 
caused. 
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. She said that the sofa 
wasnt of satisfactory quality because of the issue with its legs and she recommended that 
Hitachi Personal Finance should arrange for that issue to be repaired, reduce Mrs Ms 
outstanding finance by £400 and pay her £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Hitachi Personal Finance accepted our investigators recommendations but Mrs M said that 
shed been offered £200 for the inconvenience that shed been caused. Hitachi Personal 
Finance accepted that and agreed to increase the compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused to £200. Mrs M says that the issue with the mechanism was present when the sofa 
was delivered to her and that, if it isnt going to be repaired, she wants to return the sofa for 
a full refund. Shes provided pictures which she says show the damage to the sofa and that 
she took out insurance for the sofa so any damage shouldve been covered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs M paid for the sofa using credit, in the form of a fixed sum loan agreement, from 
Hitachi Personal Finance;
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Hitachi Persona Finance, I must be 
satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
of the sofa and that Hitachi Personal Finances response to her claim under section 
75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of Mrs Ms claim 
under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that;
its clear that there have been issues with the delivery of the sofa to Mrs M and with 
the quality of the sofas that have been delivered to her  that will have been a 
frustrating experience for Mrs M and I sympathise with her for the distress and 
inconvenience that shes been caused; 
the sofa that she currently has was delivered to her but she says that it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality so the supplier agreed to replace it but then couldnt do so 
because the replacement was damaged and the sofa had been discontinued;
Mrs M says that she has insurance for the sofa  but that wasnt bought using the 
loan from Hitachi Personal Finance so Im unable to consider any issues about the 
insurance as part of this complaint  if Mrs M wants to make a complaint about the 
insurance she should complain to the provider of the insurance and then, if shes not 
happy with its response, she may be able to make another complaint to this service;
she claimed a refund of the cost of the sofa from Hitachi Personal Finance under 
section 75 and it arranged for the sofa to be inspected by a furniture specialist;
the specialist was asked to inspect two issues about which Mrs M had complained  
the power mechanism for the footrest and the balance of the sofa caused by an issue 
with its legs;
the specialists report concluded that the issue with the power mechanism had been 
caused by it bending when hitting against the wall in front of it  and included photos 
showing the footrest not being able to fully extend on the left side because it was 
hitting a wall  so it didnt consider that Hitachi Personal Finance was liable to repair 
that issue;
it also concluded that there was a manufacturing fault with the way that the sofas 
legs had been fitted  and a repair of the legs was recommended;
Hitachi Personal Finance agreed to repair the legs  though there has been a 
considerable delay in that happening and I understand that the repair remains 
outstanding;
it also accepted our investigators recommendation that it should reduce Mrs Ms 
outstanding finance by £400 and pay her £100 for the trouble and upset caused  
and then agreed to increase the compensation for trouble and upset to £200;Mrs M has provided photos of the sofa and says that the issue with the mechanism 
was present when the sofa was delivered to her  Ive carefully considered the 
information that shes provided but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence 
to show that the mechanism was faulty when the sofa was delivered to her  and I 
consider it to be more likely than not that the issue with the mechanism has been 
caused by the use of the sofa since it was delivered to her;
I consider that the outcome that has now been accepted by Hitachi Personal Finance 
is fair and reasonable in these circumstances and Im not persuaded that it would be 
fair or reasonable for me to require Hitachi Personal Finance to allow Mrs M to reject 
the sofa and to refund to her the money that shes paid for it; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Hitachi Personal Finance to take the 
actions described below.
Putting things right
I find that Hitachi Personal Finance should arrange and pay for the issue with the sofas legs 
to be repaired. I find that it should also reduce the amount of her outstanding finance by 
£400.
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mrs M. I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for Hitachi Personal Finance to pay her £200 to compensate her 
for that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint in part and I order Hitachi Capital (UK) plc, 
trading as Hitachi Personal Finance, to:
1. Arrange and pay for the issue with the sofas legs to be repaired.
2. Reduce the amount of Mrs Ms outstanding finance by £400.
3. Pay £200 to Mrs M to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman