DRN-3444065
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). Portal processed the transfer of Mr Ds scheme benefits to the 
SIPP on an insistent client basis. Mr D says Portal badly advised him and has caused him a 
financial loss.
What happened
In or around 2016, Mr D was approaching his 55th birthday and was employed earning 
around £38,000 a year. He wasnt intending to retire for the foreseeable future. Mr D had no 
savings, assets or investments and lived in rented accommodation. His only retirement 
provision (other than his state pension) was his employers DB occupational pension 
scheme which, in 2017 was calculated to give him an income of £12,694 per year and a tax-
free lump sum of £84,627 at his normal retirement age of 65. 
Mr D was worried that there might be a change in his job, or even redundancy, which could 
lead to a reduction in his wages. He had unsecured loans of £27,000 and a credit card debt 
of £2,000 which he was worried about servicing should his employment conditions change. 
In 2016, Mr D came into contact with Portal which introduced him to the possibility of 
releasing cash from his pension. 
In mid-July 2017, Portal took some details from Mr D over the phone, including that he was 
in good health, that he didnt want to take an income from his pension and was still working. 
During the call Portal told Mr D that it was possible for him to take a maximum lump sum 
from his pension of £50,887 if he transferred out of his DB scheme. 
Portal completed a fact-find during the call to gather information about Mr Ds circumstances 
and objectives. It noted on the fact-find that Mr Ds main objective was to take maximum tax-
free cash (TFC) in order to clear down debts and take a holiday to America. Other objectives 
noted were flexibility of income drawdown, death benefits and the option to take early 
retirement at age 60. 
Mr D also ticked the box on the fact-find that stated that he had an immediate need for TFC 
and would want to proceed even if this risked a shortfall in his long-term retirement provision 
and/or if there were associated costs. Mr Ds income was noted at being £37,000 per year 
(including overtime). Portal noted that it had discussed with Mr D the loss or reduction of his 
guaranteed DB scheme benefits and that if he took TFC now, then he could not take any 
TFC at a later date. Portal also carried out an assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk, which it 
deemed to be cautious. 
Portal sent a letter to Mr D on 3 August 2017 in which it said it strongly recommended that 
he didnt transfer his DB pension scheme because of the guaranteed benefits he would be 
giving up. The letter immediately went on to say that if he did still want to effect the transfer 
then it could help him do so that but it would need to treat him as an insistent client. The 
letter included an options form and asked Mr D to tick the box on the form that was right for 
him. 
Mr D signed the form on 9 August 2017 and ticked the box that said he understood Portals 
recommendation to leave his DB scheme pension where it was but that he wanted it to 
continue to review his pension and set up a flexi-access drawdown plan so he could release 
TFC of £50,887 and invest the balance of £152,663. Mr D also ticked a box acknowledging 
the critical yield for the new plan was going to be 10.4% and that he was giving up 
guaranteed benefits.
Portal sent Mr D its suitability report on 21 August 2017 together with a covering letter. The 
covering letter said it was delighted to recommend that Mr D transfer his pension to a SIPP 
and that in so doing he would receive the TFC previously identified and that it would manage 
the remaining pension fund to maximise performance and keep it under review. The letter 
also asked that if Mr D agreed with its recommendation then he should sign the enclosed 
forms. The suitability report said Portal had already recommended to Mr D that he didnt 
transfer his DB scheme so was now treating him as an insistent client. It went on to say that 
it was recommending Mr D transfer his DB scheme to a flexi-access income drawdown SIPP 
splitting the fund between fixed interest at 53.4%, equities at 41.6% and 5% in cash. 
Mr D signed the transfer forms on 4 September 2017 and the transfer took place a few days 
later. 
Mr D complained in November 2020 to Portal about the suitability of the transfer advice. He 
said Portal had failed to provide clear and understandable advice about the comparison of 
pension benefits between the DB scheme and the proposed SIPP. Mr D said the suitability 
report referred briefly to his stated objective to clear down debts but otherwise provided only 
generic objectives. He said there wasnt any consideration about whether his only stated 
objective could have been met without transferring away from the scheme. Mr D said that 
had he been clearly warned about the specific benefits he was giving up he wouldve 
accepted that advice. 
Mr D went on to say that he was reliant on the DB scheme as his only pension provision. 
And he said he was asked to sign an insistent client form facilitating the transfer before any 
suitability report was produced. Finally he said that the investments his pension had been 
placed in were unsuitable and had performed poorly. 
Mr D said he wanted compensation to put him in the position he would have been in had he 
received suitable advice from Portal. Portal looked into Mr Ds complaint but didnt think it 
had done anything wrong. It said it had clearly communicated to Mr D that it wasnt in his 
best interests to proceed with the transaction. And it said it had made him aware of the 
guaranteed benefits he was giving up. Portal said it had followed the correct regulatory 
procedures and had provided Mr D with all the information he needed to make an informed 
decision but that he had wished to proceed as an insistent client. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our service in June 2021. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and recommended it was upheld. He thought that Mr D couldnt be said to be a 
true insistent client. He thought that Mr D wasnt sufficiently experienced or qualified to 
decide he was an insistent client. And he thought that Portal hadnt done enough to dissuade 
him from insisting on the transfer given the DB scheme was his only pension provision, that 
he lived in rented accommodation and wanted to clear his debts and take a holiday. Our 
investigator recommended that Portal pay compensation to Mr D. 
Portal disagreed with our investigators findings stating that it had complied with all the 
regulators requirements for the insistent client process and that it was satisfied that Mr D 
understood the risk he was taking by proceeding. Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind so the complaint was referred to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. Ive explained my reasons below. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr D best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
A key aspect in this case is Portals categorisation of Mr D as an insistent client. An insistent 
client is one that wishes to take a different course of action from that being recommended 
and wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.
At the time of the advice there were no regulatory rules in place in respect of insistent clients. 
But in February 2016 the regulator provided guidance on its website about what steps it 
expected businesses to take when advising an insistent client. There are three key steps, 
which it set out on its website as follows:
1. You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this advice must     
be clear to the client. This is the normal advice process.
2. You should be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action. If the 
advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there may be additional 
requirements. These may include ensuring the advice is provided by or checked by a 
pension transfer specialist, comparing the defined benefit (DB) scheme with the defined 
contribution (DC) scheme and starting by assuming the transfer is not suitable (see 
COBS 19.1).
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice.
The regulator said the advice should be set out clearly in the suitability report, and that it 
needed to be clear with its client about the risks of their chosen course of action and that 
he/she is acting against its advice. It also added that if the client used their own words to 
indicate that they want to act against its advice, this would normally be clear. The regulator 
also published additional guidance on its website giving examples of good and poor practice. 
It gave the following example of good practice relating to suitability reports:
The adviser gave a personal recommendation in clear and unambiguous terms regarding 
both the advice on whether or not to transfer and, if the client chose to transfer, the receiving 
product and the funds into which the client was advised to invest.
The adviser discussed the client's reasons and the risks of not accepting the personal 
recommendation. The adviser documented the reasons, the discussion and its outcome in a separate document to the original personal recommendation. Robust warnings were given 
and documented.
Whilst this was guidance, and not rules, I wouldve expected Portal to have been aware of 
this and ensured that the advice and process it followed was consistent with the regulators 
expectations.
Portal says that it provided suitable advice and acted in Mr Ds best interests. It says that it 
followed the correct insistent client process. Mr D says Portals advice was negligent and 
hes suffered a loss as a result.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence presented, I think there were weaknesses 
and failings in Portals advice process, which meant it didnt act in Mr Ds best interests. And 
I think Mr D likely understood, or believed overall, that Portal was recommending he should 
go ahead with the transfer.
I say this because on 3 August 2017 following the telephone discussion Portal had on 
19 July 2017 with Mr D about his pension options, it sent him what I think can only be 
described as a brief letter with the outcome of its advice. It said that because of the growth 
rate required to match Mr Ds guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme, and because hed 
be giving up those guaranteed benefits, it recommended he should not transfer away from 
his DB scheme to access a tax-free cash lump sum. But I dont think this letter clearly set out 
the risks associated with the transfer.
In this situation Id expect the emphasis of the documentation to be the reasons why the 
transfer was not in Mr Ds best interests. But the information on this form was limited to the 
loss of guarantees and the growth required to match his existing benefits. While Portal later 
sent a more detailed suitability report, which I will refer to later on, at this stage Mr D had 
little information to go off to decide if being an insistent client was truly in his best interests.
Yet immediately underneath the brief summary of why Portal recommended Mr D should not 
transfer away from his DB scheme, it said that he could go about doing it regardless, by 
effecting his right to transfer on an insistent client basis. And while it said this would be 
against Portals recommendation, it enclosed the necessary forms Mr D needed to complete 
and return to pursue this option. And option 1 he was presented with was to go against 
Portals advice  the second option was to do nothing as per its recommendation. It strikes 
me that Portals process here was geared towards facilitating the transfer.
I think if Portal firmly believed in its advice and recommendation and it was acting in Mr Ds 
best interests, not only would it have given more detail upfront and placed greater emphasis 
on the reasons why the transfer wasnt in Mr Ds best interests, it also wouldnt have told him 
at the same time as delivering its recommendation - albeit briefly - how he could put it aside 
and bypass it. I think the wording and the emphasis placed on how Mr D could ignore 
Portals recommendation was unfair to him and wasnt in his best interests.
I dont think it was in Mr Ds best interest to go against Portals recommendation  yet Portal 
made it very easy for him to do so. I also think, given the context and the emphasis placed 
on this, that Mr D could reasonably have interpreted that overall Portal was recommending 
he go ahead and transfer.
I think it ought to have been clear to Portal that Mr D had little knowledge or experience of 
financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. For example 
theres nothing recorded on the assets section of the fact-find to suggests Mr D was an experienced investor  in fact it appears he was completely inexperienced. It is documented 
that Mr D didnt even have a mortgage. Im mindful too that Portal assessed Mr Ds attitude 
to risk as being cautious. This process involved Mr D giving answers to a series of 
questions  one of which was about his understanding of investments to which he replied, I 
think I struggle with understanding investment basics even when an adviser explains things 
to me. 
I think this shouldve put Portal on notice that it had to be very careful if it was to take Mr D 
through the insistent client route.
I can see that Mr Ds insistent client forms included a section where he put in his own words 
why he wanted to access his pension fund early. And while this was something the FCA 
guidance pointed to as being good practice, I dont think Mr Ds response adequately 
demonstrates that he knew and understood the risks involved and the recommendation he 
was agreeing to. I say this not only because the majority of the form was pre-completed and 
Mr D simply had to tick a box to say that he understood what he was giving up by 
transferring, but also because the reasons he gave in his words were speculative. Mr D 
mentions there was talk of redundancy at his place of work, of freezing his OPS and giving 
him a new contract and pension. But in July/August 2017 it was by no means certain that 
these things would definitely happen to Mr D in October 2018 or if he would be affected. 
And crucially, as I indicated earlier on, he hadnt yet received Portals full suitability report 
and had time to read and digest it before having to decide if he wanted to go ahead anyway. 
So Im not persuaded Mr D was able to make an informed choice here. And I dont think this 
document alone sufficiently showed Mr D was an insistent client.
It was only after receiving Mr Ds confirmation that he wanted to proceed with the transfer 
that Portal sent him its full suitability report. And while this repeated the recommendation 
not to transfer out of the DB scheme, it was followed by a positive recommendation, 
advising Mr D to transfer his benefits to facilitate access to his tax-free cash. And this was 
all set out under a heading titled Our recommendation.
In order to fulfil the regulators requirements under COBS 9.2, Portal needed to give Mr D 
advice on the overall suitability of the transaction envisaged, that is the transfer and the 
choice of pension and investment. Instead, it first gave Mr D advice on the advice to transfer, 
and only considered the suitability of the proposed alternative in the full suitability report after 
securing his confirmation to proceed on an insistent client basis.
So, by recommending that Mr D transfer his benefits to a particular scheme, not only did this 
undermine the recommendation not to transfer, I think Portal has effectively given him a 
recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme. If Portal didnt think that transferring out 
of the DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement was in Mr Ds best interests, it needed 
to ensure that it gave clear advice that the whole of the transaction was unsuitable for him. In 
my view it shouldnt have separated out the elements. For this reason, I think on receipt of 
the full suitability report Mr D likely believed Portal was recommending he transfer out of the 
DB scheme, and that it was reasonable for him to do so.
Mr Ds objective for accessing his pension early was to enable him to generate a lump sum 
which he could use to clear his debts. I can see that Mr D had two unsecured loans. The first 
was noted by Portal on the fact-find as having an outstanding balance of £16,000 to pay at 
monthly rate of £472 with three years remaining. The second had an outstanding balance of 
£10,848, cost £452 a month in repayments and had two years left to run. It was also noted that Mr D had an outstanding credit card debt of £2,000 towards which he was repaying £50 
a month. So, in total, Mr D was making monthly payments of £974 towards his debts. 
Mr D was recorded as having monthly take home pay (including overtime) of £2,300 and his 
wife as having take home pay of £281. Portal noted that after all of their outgoings they had 
a monthly surplus income of £281. 
So it is clear to me that whilst Mr Ds loan repayments were a substantial portion of his net 
income he was managing to afford them each month and had surplus income left over. As 
Ive said above, the loans had 2 years and 3 years each yet to run and there was, at the time 
the advice was given, no certainty about any redundancy or what it would even look like for 
Mr D if it did happen. So any need to repay them early seems, at the very least, premature. 
In the suitability report Portal said that it had talked with Mr D about other ways of raising 
money instead of taking the TFC. It notes that he didnt want to take on any further lending 
or pay interest and that he didnt have enough disposable income to service his needs. But 
on the fact-find Portal noted that Mr D did have surplus income left over each month so I 
dont think this statement can be correct. And whilst Portal says Mr D didnt want to take on 
further lending, why that was, and what options were discussed (if any) isnt documented. 
All in all it seems to me that Mr Ds need for extra money to pay off his debt was relatively 
short term  two to three years at most. By August 2019 Mr D would have cleared one of the 
loans and be £472 per month better off. So whilst Portal claims to have considered 
alternative ways for Mr D to meet his need it seems to me it overlooked what I consider to be 
an obvious and easy solution which was to continue to meet the loan repayments until the 
balances were cleared down. And I cant see that Portal assessed what income Mr D would 
need in retirement or how hed fund it if he transferred out.
And I cant agree that advising Mr D to transfer his guaranteed pension benefits in order to 
access TFC so he could take a holiday was in his best interests. Im sure that being able to 
take a holiday would have seemed attractive to Mr D but I cannot agree that it was suitable 
to advise Mr F to transfer his DB scheme in order to access what would have been a 
relatively small proportion of the TFC and for which there existed other means, unexplored 
by Portal, to raise it. I know that Portal stated in the suitability report that Mr D didnt want to 
take on any more lending but it doesnt seem to me that it explored the possibility of 
restructuring the personal loans, perhaps to take their repayment term out a bit, so he could 
borrow a little bit more if the holiday was a significant priority for him. Doing so would also 
potentially have lowered his monthly outgoings. But Ive seen no evidence such alternatives 
were explored with Mr D. 
Portal noted that one of the reasons Mr D gave for transferring his benefits was that he was 
concerned about potential redundancy and that that might mean the freezing of the DB 
scheme. But I cant see that Portal advised him that his DB scheme was protected by the 
PPF (Pension Protection Fund) nor that, if his worst fears were realised and he was made 
redundant then he couldve explored his options in relation to the scheme at that point in 
time. And I understand in any event that Mr D remains employed. 
I acknowledge there were no specific insistent client rules at the time. But I consider the 
regulatory rules and guidance that were in place at the time were clear that Portal had to act 
with due care and skill and in Mr Ds best interests. And by not seeking to properly 
understand Mr Ds objectives, actual employment circumstances and what he was really 
trying to achieve before carrying things out, Im not persuaded it can be said to have been 
acting in Mr Ds best interests.Ultimately I dont think Mr D was able to make an informed choice here  it seems to me that 
he most likely went ahead with the transfer as he believed it seemed like a good idea and 
this was the only way to meet his objectives. Portal failed to properly understand Mr Ds 
overall position and overlooked or ignored what I consider was the clear and obvious 
solution to his short-term need as I described above: in other words it failed to recommend to 
him that it was in his best interests to do nothing . Furthermore, I think the way Portal 
presented its recommendation to Mr D wouldve led him to believe it was giving him a 
positive recommendation to transfer out of the scheme. And I think this wouldve given Mr D 
the impression that Portal agreed with his approach.
Portal recommended that Mr D invest in three funds (5% in cash, 41.6% in equity and 53.4% 
in fixed interest). Mr D says the funds he has been invested in have performed poorly. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that Mr D cannot be truly regarded as an insistent 
client therefore making the transfer out of his DB scheme unsuitable, it follows that I dont 
need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because 
Mr D should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in the 
SIPP wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Overall, and on balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to 
conclude the process Portal followed meant that Mr D can truly be regarded as an insistent 
client - I think Portal made it altogether too easy to agree that he was an insistent client. 
Portals overall communication with Mr D wasnt clear or fair. It didnt act in Mrs Ds best 
interests. And it failed to act with due care and skill.
I now need to consider if Portal had followed the insistent client process correctly, whether 
Mr D wouldve still gone ahead. Portal says that because Mr D used his own language and it 
followed the regulators guidance to ensure Mr D understood the insistent client process then 
that is evidence that he wouldve accessed his DB pension benefits early regardless of 
Portals involvement.
But I disagree. If Portal had acted in Mr Ds best interests, providing a recommendation on 
the suitability of the whole of the transaction envisaged at the outset, and addressing Mr Ds 
true objectives at the time, I dont think Mr D wouldve insisted on going ahead with the 
transfer. As Ive outlined above, I dont consider Mr D to be an experienced investor who 
possessed the requisite knowledge, skill or had the confidence to go against the advice and 
recommendation he was given. I think he relied solely on the advice and process Portal 
employed.
So if things had happened as they should have, taking everything into account, I dont think it 
likely Mr D would have insisted on going ahead with the transfer.
In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mr D for its failings using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr D. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience. Such awards arent intended to fine or 
punish Portal but rather to recognise the emotional and practical impact its actions have had 
on Mr D. And taking everything into account, including that I consider Mr D is now at the age 
when his retirement provision is of greater importance to him, I think the unsuitable advice 
has caused him distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr D, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would have most 
likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My understanding is that Mr D could have taken his pension benefits without reduction at 
age 67 and he has told our investigator that that is the age at which he intends to retire. So I 
think, had Mr D remained in his DB scheme, then he would have most likely accessed it at 
this point. Consequently Portal should base the compensation payment on Mr Ds schemes 
normal retirement age of 67. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible, or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal to 
pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Portal should also pay Mr D compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience its 
unsuitable advice caused him. 
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as set 
out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman