DRN-3948169
The complaint
Mr T complains that Chubb European Group SE declined his claims on his motor insurance 
policy following the theft of his two cars. He wants his claim reviewed and compensation for 
his stress. 
What happened
Thieves broke into Mr Ts house and stole his cars keys, fobs and the remote for his gate. 
They then stole his two cars. Chubb declined the claims as it said the cars didnt have the 
correct activated anti-theft tracking systems that were required by the policy. It said if these 
had been activated, then the chances of locating and recovering the cars would have 
increased. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She said Mr T 
hadnt complied with the policy endorsements. She thought it was unlikely if he had done 
that this would have prevented a theft. But she thought if the required tracking devices had 
been fitted and activated then the cars could have been more easily located and recovered. 
She thought Chubb had reasonably offered, as a gesture of goodwill, to rewrite the policy for 
the lesser valued car without the endorsement. It said that it would cover the loss if Mr T paid 
an additional premium. But it wouldnt cover the loss of the other car. 
Mr T accepted the offer for one car, but still wanted the claim for the other car to be paid. He 
said his garage had fitted the tracker it thought was required by his insurance. He said the 
policy endorsement was too complicated for a layman to understand. Mr T asked for an 
Ombudsmans review. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has accepted Chubbs offer of a settlement for one car as a goodwill gesture in return 
for an additional premium. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So I wont 
consider that particular claim further here. But I will consider Chubbs repudiation of the 
claim for the other car. 
Chubb said the correct GPS tracker wasnt fitted on Mr Ts car at the time of the theft and it 
didnt have automatic driver recognition. So it declined his claim for its loss. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. Chubb relied on the following 
condition to decline the claim:
Tracker fitted
The following condition is added to the Policy Conditions part of Your Policy.
Anti-theft vehicle tracking system - You must ensure that an anti-theft vehicle tracking 
system with Pro-Active Automatic Driver Recognition is securely fitted and must maintain 
the vehicle tracking subscription on Your Vehicle (s)throughout the Policy Period. The 
anti-theft vehicle tracking system must be in full working order at the time of the theft.
I can see that the requirement is clearly stated on the policy schedule. Chubb said that Mr T 
was in breach of this policy condition at the time of the theft. And it said this entitled it to 
suspend cover until the breach was remedied. And so the claim was declined. 
I agree that Mr T hadnt complied with the endorsement. The system he had fitted is clearly 
not an anti-theft vehicle tracking system with an active subscription. Mr T said the providers 
of the tracking system hadnt sent him reminders of his renewals. But I cant reasonably hold 
Chubb responsible for this. 
Mr T also said the requirement was too complicated. But I can see that Mr T had the 
required tracking device for the other car, albeit it was never activated. So I cant say this is 
reasonable. I think it was for Mr T to read and understand his policys requirements and to 
seek advice if he was unclear about them. 
Our approach when an insurer doesnt pay a claim is to see if we think its fairly declined the 
claim. When doing so well look at the circumstances, policy terms and industry guidelines. 
We think an insurer can only decline a consumer claim due to a breach of policy condition if 
its material to the loss. And I can see that Mr T has said that the theft would have happened 
anyway, despite the active tracker system, as they had taken the cars keys and fob.
Mr T reported the theft five hours after it occurred. No signal had been received by the 
tracking company as the device was no longer activated. But if the automatic driver 
recognition had been in place and if it had been activated, then I think Chubb reasonably 
thought the theft would have been more readily detected and the chances of recovering the 
car increased. 
This is because the tracker would immediately have alerted the tracking company and via it 
the police and Mr T to the attempted theft or tampering with the car and to the cars location 
during and after the theft. This would have considerably increased the chances of catching 
the thieves and/or recovering the car quickly. Also, the tracker gives the option of remotely 
immobilising the vehicle. 
So, had an active automatic driver recognition tracker been fitted on the car, then Mr T, the 
tracking company and police would all have been advised of the theft the minute the car was 
driven off the driveway. Its location would have been advised to the police who could have 
been deployed instantly. Failing that, the car could have been immobilised remotely.
So Im satisfied that by not having an automatic driver recognition tracker fitted and active, 
Mr T significantly increased the risk of the loss occurring in the manner in which it did. And 
so I think Mr Ts breach of the policy condition was material to the loss. And so I think it was 
fair and reasonable for Chubb to rely on it to decline his claim for this cars loss. 
Putting things right
I require Chubb European Group SE to reconsider Mr Ts claim for the loss of the lesser 
valued car under the remaining terms and conditions of his policy on receipt of the required 
additional premium, as its already agreed to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Chubb European Group SE to carry out the redress set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman