DRN-3253381
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain about the way The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFU) handled a claim against their buildings insurance. 
Mrs W and Mr W are being represented by their son. For ease of reading, Ill refer to Mrs W 
and Mr W and their son as Mrs W and Mr W, unless stated otherwise.
What happened
This is a longstanding claim and the background to it is well-known to all parties. So, rather 
than repeat in detail what happened, instead Ill summarise my understanding and focus on 
what I consider to be materially relevant to the complaint. 
In summary, Mrs W and Mr W reported an escape of water in 2018. NFU accepted the claim 
and Mrs W and Mr W were moved into a hotel until more appropriate alternative 
accommodation could be secured. 
NFU appointed two separate contractors to undertake the remedial work. However, Mrs W 
and Mr W requested the contractors to stop as they were unhappy with the quality of works 
being undertaken. They said the contractors had caused further significant damage to their 
home. 
Mrs W and Mr W said a meeting took place at their home. And NFUs agent who attended 
was unwell, which caused them to feel unwell afterwards. During this visit, Mrs W and Mr W 
expressed their dissatisfaction with the handling of the claim. They also said the contractors 
had poured plaster down the drain which caused damage, and the locks on their home had 
been changed without prior agreement. 
Due to the quality of works undertaken, Mrs W and Mr W requested an independent 
surveyor be appointed to report on the issues. The surveyor attended around May 2019 and 
reported the works had been completed to a poor standard by inexperienced labour and 
there were several issues. They also said inappropriate machinery had been used to remove 
plaster which caused significant damage to the walls, the stairs hadnt been fitted correctly 
and copper pipes had been replaced with plastic pipes, amongst other things. 
Given the issues raised, a second surveyor was appointed to provide a report. They also 
reported several issues with the quality of works undertaken by NFU. This report was shared 
with Mrs W and Mr W towards the end of 2019, but Mrs W and Mr W decided not to share 
the report with NFU. They said they took this decision as they werent confident the report 
would be considered fairly by NFU. 
During this period, alternative accommodation was being frequently extended. Throughout 
the claim, alternative accommodation was a concern of Mrs W and Mr Ws, particularly the 
payments for this, which they said regularly arrived late. 
In 2020, the latest report was shared with NFU. Following this, NFU agreed to cover some 
additional works but declined to include the steel beam and external cracking. They said the 
installation of the steel beam was a private job and the external cracking wasnt claim 
related. Mrs W and Mr W disputed this. 
NFU said Mrs W and Mr W should have provided them with a copy of the 2019 report much 
sooner. As had they have done this, the claim would have been further forward and 
potentially even resolved prior to the national lockdown in March 2020. And as a result, NFU 
said they had covered alternative accommodation costs for longer than reasonable. 
Mrs W and Mr W requested a structural engineer should inspect the condition of their home. 
And after several communications between Mrs W and Mr W and NFU, a structural engineer 
was instructed to carry out a report towards the end of 2020. 
Mrs W and Mr W approached our service during the time the claim was running. But they 
requested no action to be taken so the claim could progress. They later requested our 
service considers the matter as they found themselves no further forward with the claim. 
They also had continuous concerns over alternative accommodation as NFU had said they 
would no longer cover this. They said NFU had also at one point suggested their home was 
habitable, but they disputed this given the condition it was in, which was backed up by the 
reports. 
Mrs W and Mr W also provided their own list of works pulled together from a list of costs 
from local contractors, and costs they considered to be owed to them as part of the claim. In 
order to resolve the complaint, they requested NFU paid them a cash settlement to the value 
of the list they had put together of all the claim-associated costs and pay them 
compensation. 
Our service considered the first complaint Mrs W and Mr W raised, but an ombudsman 
decided the complaint was brought too late based on the time limits that apply. However, 
Mrs W and Mr W raised further complaints with NFU our service was able to consider. 
An investigator here considered the complaint in June 2021 and recommended it be upheld. 
All parties have had sight of this and so I wont repeat its contents in detail here. 
Both parties responded and neither accepted his recommendations. 
Mrs W and Mr W didnt think a new scope of works was required and said NFU should cash 
settle the claim based on the costs they provided. They were also unhappy with the 
compensation amount.
They also didnt think it was fair for NFU to pay the lowest amount of the three quotes from 
their own selected contractors. They referred to a previous independent report which said 
once the works restart, the contractors should be selected based on skill and experience, 
rather than cost. 
Mrs W and Mr Ws representative also requested NFU include a further £2,099 as his 
computer had been used excessively during the claim and had worn out. And the driveway 
required reinstating as NFU had poured plaster down the drain which damaged the tarmac. 
NFU agreed to include works required to the stairs, cavity wall insulation, flooring insulation 
and external blockwork as part of the claim. But they didnt think Mrs W and Mr W should 
choose their own surveyor. So, they proposed to create a shortlist of surveyors and include 
their own contractors in the tender process. 
Our investigator considered the responses but maintained his position. He felt what he recommended was a fair way to progress matters for all parties. 
Mrs W and Mr W remained unhappy, so the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
Shortly after the complaint was passed to me, NFU agreed to our investigators 
recommendations. They paid Mrs W and Mr W an interim payment and said they would also 
consider the claim for the driveway and an additional storage unit. They asked for more 
information regarding the additional storage unit and said once this is received, they can 
include it in the costs for alternative accommodation, storage and tax. 
The complaint progressed at that stage in so far as NFU accepted the investigators 
recommendations. However, Mrs W and Mr W maintained they wanted NFU to settle 
matters based on the costings they put forward and increase the compensation amount. 
I considered the complaint and issued a provisional decision on 4 November 2021, which 
follows.  
My provisional decision
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive used sub-headings to set out my decision for ease of reading. 
Progressing the claim to settlement 
In my view, the claim is still running today due to the poor quality of workmanship 
undertaken by NFU. 
I say this because I find the independent reports demonstrate NFUs repairs were poor and 
not lasting and effective. So, Mrs W and Mr Ws request for the works to stop were 
reasonable. And as NFU had two attempts to put matters right, Im in agreement the fairest 
way to progress matters now is for NFU to cash settle the claim. 
Though the dispute present here is whether NFU should cash settle the claim based on the 
costs provided by Mrs W and Mr W. Or, whether a new scope of works should be formed for 
a tender process. Ive gone on to consider this, and I think a new scope of works for a tender 
process is the fairest way to progress matters. Ill explain why. 
I appreciate the effort Mrs W and Mr W have gone to when providing costs from local 
contractors and detailing other costs they say should be paid as part of the claim. But the 
costs theyve provided are all isolated costs from various contractors and not a scope of 
works that can be used to ensure the costs are fair, provide an accurate timeline of the 
works required  and at what stage  and how long it will take. This is important as NFU will 
also be cash settling the alternative accommodation, council tax and storage costs for the 
period works are undertaken. 
So, a new scope of works should be formed, by a surveyor of Mrs W and Mr Ws choosing, 
to include all claim-related damage. It should also include an approximate time period in 
which the works will be completed by  this is important given my comment above regarding 
alternative accommodation and associated costs continuing. 
Mrs W and Mr W didnt think a tender process was fair with NFU having the option of cash settling the claim using the lowest quote. When raising this, they highlighted comments from 
an independent surveyor, which said: 
Once these remedial works are again started, a suitable contractor needs to be 
selected according to the level of skill and experience they bring to the project, not 
the cost they propose for the works. I have seen too much evidence of budget before 
quality. It is clear the contractors instructed to do the remedial works were employing 
tradesmen without the skill and experience to complete these works to a standard 
acceptable by building control, and I would advise that you engage someone with 
considerable skill in renovations to oversee what will be the third rendition of these 
remedial works. 
I do accept why Mrs W and Mr W made this argument. And I dont dispute the contractors 
employed to undertake the work should have the relevant skillset and experience to 
complete it. However, I also think, by Mrs W and Mr W choosing the three contractors, they 
can be satisfied they have selected contractors with the relevant skillset and experience to 
partake in the tender process. 
When choosing the contractors, Mrs W and Mr W will consider their skillset and experience. 
This means Mrs W and Mr W will have selected three contractors for the tender process they 
are satisfied hold the relevant skillset and experience. So, I dont think by NFU cash settling 
the lowest quote based on the tender process makes a material difference here. 
I appreciate this aspect of my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs W and Mr W. 
But I must explain my role is to decide what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome 
for all parties in the circumstances. And I think this is the most appropriate way to progress 
the complaint, for the reasons set out above. 
Mrs W and Mr W say building control should have been involved much sooner in the claim 
process. Whilst NFU say building control werent required and provided evidence of this. In 
any event, Ive seen NFU agreed to include building control in the remedial work, so I wont 
give further comment to this aspect of the complaint. 
Whether outstanding works are claim-related 
There are several matters in dispute on whether damage is claim-related or not, or 
substandard. Namely, the steel beam, cavity wall closers, the plastic pipes and the blinds. Ill 
address each in turn. 
The steel beam 
NFU said a steel beam was installed between the living and dining room as requested by 
Mrs W and Mr W, to open the space. They provided an example of what their neighbours 
property looked like to show what they wanted. NFU say this was a private job with their 
contractors as Mrs W and Mr W paid cash for this, and therefore not claim-related. 
Mrs W and Mr W said NFUs contractors offered to undertake the work without including 
building control, and they paid £560 for this. But a short period later, they found the work 
was included in NFUs scope of works, and as such, NFU reimbursed the costs they paid. 
Therefore, they say the work was claim-related. 
Based on what Ive seen, I havent been persuaded this work was claim-related. On balance, 
it seems Mrs W and Mr W wanted to change the layout of their home and provided examples 
of what they wanted changing to the contractors. Im more persuaded this was private work 
and not work required as part of the claim-related repairs. Although Mrs W and Mr W say the amount they paid for this was reimbursed, Im not satisfied this work would have been 
required to perform a lasting and effective repair to the claim-related damage. Rather, it was 
a decision to change the layout which isnt covered under the policy. 
The cavity wall closers 
In the November 2020 report, it says the cavities around the windows and doors do not have 
cavity closers. And the work required will involve taking out the windows and doors to fit the 
closers. It also says the cloakroom window has a single pane of glass and is insufficient. 
The report doesnt clearly state why the walls do not have cavity closers. For example, 
whether this is due to the 2018 claim or the workmanship undertaken by NFU. However, on 
balance, I think NFU should include the cavity wall closers work within the new scope of 
works. I say this because cavity wall closers form part of the building regulations and 
therefore will be required to carry out a lasting and effective repair following the claim. 
I dont think the single windowpane should be replaced under the policy as I havent seen 
strong supporting evidence to show this was damaged as a result of the claim or installed by 
NFU as part of the repairs. 
Plastic pipes were used to replace copper pipes
NFU removed the previous copper pipes and replaced them with new plastic pipes. The 
independent surveyor also gave their view on this, and said: 
Plumbing around the property has not been undertaken on a like for like basis. The 
property was originally piped up in copper pipe. The replacement works in the 
bathroom running to the boiler have been undertaken in plastic pipe. Not only are the 
materials substandard to the original, the plumber who installed this didnt even 
manage to get the pipes out of the floor to be in line with the radiator valve centres. 
Based on this, I can see why Mrs W and Mr W feel the plastic pipes are substandard, but I 
dont agree. NFU said plastic pipes are commonly used and provide the same function to 
that of copper pipes. So, whilst I do take the comments above into account, Im not 
persuaded its been shown the use of plastic pipes havent provided a lasting and effective 
repair. 
The issue here in my view isnt the type of pipes used; the pipes arent aligned to the radiator 
valve centres. And so, this is something NFU will need to put right and include in the new 
scope of works. 
The blinds 
Mrs W and Mr W said their blinds were damaged by contractors. But Ive seen NFU included 
the costs of blinds within the contents inventory which has now been settled. So, I wont 
direct NFU to do anything differently here. 
Other costs being claimed for by Mrs W and Mr W as part of the claim
Mrs W and Mr W have also claimed for the following costs: 
Reinstatement of the tarmac on the driveway; 
An additional storage unit for their belongings; and 
A new computer. Ill address each in turn. 
NFU said they will validate the driveway claim once the claim-related repairs are completed. 
I havent seen its been disputed by either party that NFU caused this damage. Given 
substantial work is required as part of the claim, its reasonable for the works required to the 
driveway to be validated and put right after the contractors have completed all claim-related 
repairs. 
They also requested further information regarding the additional storage unit needed. And 
once this has been received, NFU are prepared to include this in the costs for ongoing 
alternative accommodation, other storage and council tax. I also think this is fair. 
Mrs W and Mr W told us their storage costs have since increased. And so, evidence will 
need to be provided to NFU regarding the same. 
Mrs W and Mr Ws representative said his computer has worn out given the excessive usage 
throughout the claim and complaint. I can see he has been communicating with NFU since 
the claim was reported, but I wont be requiring NFU to cover these costs, because I dont 
agree that would be fair as I havent seen strong supporting evidence that the computer 
failure can be solely attributed to the communication with NFU. 
Compensation 
NFU chose to settle the claim under the policy by carrying out repairs, and its fair to say 
they let Mrs W and Mr W down. And Ive no doubt the way things were handled would have 
caused them to experience a level of distress and inconvenience  over and above whats 
naturally expected following a claim. 
Ive set out I think the main reason why the claim is still running today is due to NFUs poor 
workmanship. The extent of this poor workmanship is evident in the independent reports Ive 
seen. Mrs W and Mr W are in their 70s and 80s and have had to endure seeing their home 
suffer a considerable amount of damage  whilst being in alternative accommodation for the 
last few years. They had insurance in place to mitigate the impact on them, but they have 
had to endure witnessing their home suffer further damage as a result of poor repairs 
undertaken by NFU. 
I note NFU raised concerns about the delays they feel Mrs W and Mr W caused by 
withholding an independent report. But I think Mrs W and Mr Ws reasons for doing so were 
reasonable given their experience with the claim and the way things were handled. And as 
above, the overarching reason why the claim isnt yet resolved is due to the workmanship 
undertaken on two occasions. 
Our investigator recommended NFU should pay Mrs W and Mr W £1,000 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. I think this should be increased. 
Given the poor repairs and subsequent delays as a result, and due to the way things were 
handled, I think the level of distress and inconvenience caused should be categorised as 
severe. And as such, I think the compensation amount should be increased from £1,000 to 
£2,500. I accept this amount may still come as a disappointment to Mrs W and Mr W, but I 
hope they understand my award recognises the severity of the impact this had on them. 
Summary 
I accept there will be aspects of my decision that will disappoint Mrs W and Mr W. But my 
decision is intended to bring this longstanding matter to a resolution for all parties, so they can return to their home. 
As Ive considered several aspects, I want to clarify my intended direction and have outlined 
this below:
Mrs W and Mr W should appoint their own surveyor to form a new scope of works to 
include all claim-related damage (paid for by NFU). This should include the works 
NFU have agreed to cover, but should not include works required to the steel beam 
or single glass windowpane; 
Once the new scope of works is completed, this should go through a tender process 
with three contractors of Mrs W and Mr Ws choosing; 
NFU must cash settle the claim following the tender process, with an option to cash 
settle it based on the lowest quote provided; 
NFU must cover the costs of alternative accommodation, storage and council tax 
until works are completed and Mrs W and Mr W can return to their home; 
NFU must demonstrate the costs Mrs W and Mr W have incurred so far for 
independent reports, alternative accommodation, council tax and storage have been 
reimbursed and up to date, along with 8% simple interest from the date they made 
these payments to the date of settlement; 
Once the claim-related repairs are completed, NFU should validate the driveway 
claim and cash settle it; and 
NFU must pay Mrs W and Mr W £2,500 in total for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
As NFU will cash settle the claim, I need to be clear to all parties on where NFUs liability 
would end in respect of the claim. Aside from validating the driveway claim, once NFU have 
cash settled the claim, their liability for this claim would end. Meaning, any further issues 
regarding workmanship undertaken by the contractors of Mrs W and Mr Ws choosing would 
not be the responsibility of NFU. 
It's important I also explain that where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to 
be paid by a financial business up to £350,000 plus any interest and/or costs and interest on 
costs that I consider to appropriate. If I think fair compensation is more than £350,000, I may 
recommend that the business pays the balance. 
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is I uphold the complaint. I intend to direct The National Farmers 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to do the following: 
Cover the costs of Mrs W and Mr Ws surveyor to complete a new scope of works to 
include all claim-related damage and remedial work required following previous 
claim-related repairs; 
Upon completion of the new scope of works, after the tender process, cash settle the 
claim in full and final settlement, with the option to cash settle it based on the lowest 
quote provided following the tender process; 
Cash settle Mrs W and Mr Ws remaining alternative accommodation, storage and 
council tax costs up until the claim-related repairs are completed and Mrs W and Mr 
W can move back into their home; and 
Pay them £2,500 compensation in total for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Responses to my provisional decision All parties responded to my provisional decision and didnt agree with my intended 
resolution. 
Mrs W and Mr W remained of the view that NFU should settle the matter by paying them the 
amount they put forward. They said this includes all costs  including the building work, 
alternative accommodation and monthly costs, outstanding costs owed and post building 
control costs, amongst other things. They didnt think a new scope of works or tender 
process was fair. The amount they requested was £180,278.57. They also felt the 
compensation amount should be significantly increased. 
NFU also had concerns about the intended direction I set out on 4 November 2021. 
As Mrs W and Mr W maintained their view on how the matter should be settled, our 
investigator contacted NFU to put this to them. NFU responded to say they were prepared to 
settle the matter by paying Mrs W and Mr W the cash settlement amount requested. 
This was put to Mrs W and Mr W and they responded to request a further months payment 
for alternative accommodation, storage and council tax. NFU accepted to include this in the 
cash settlement. And as such, all parties agreed to settle the claim in this way  rather than 
for a new scope of works to be formed and a tender process. 
Mrs W and Mr W however remained unhappy with the compensation amount. They felt it 
should be significantly increased to an amount that truly reflects whats happened and the 
distress and inconvenience experienced over the past few years. 
Mrs W and Mr Ws representative also requested NFU covers further financial losses which 
he said totals £500,000. He also requested NFU covers his loss of earnings over the claim 
period which he said equals £136,746.79. Their representative said NFU should pay a total 
of £869,305.18 in order to settle the matter in full. 
Therefore, whilst all parties are now in agreement with the claim being settled based on Mrs 
W and Mr Ws list of costs, there remains several disputes. So, the case was passed back to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out within my provisional decision what I considered to be a fair and reasonable 
resolution to this longstanding dispute. I was aware Mrs W and Mr W had put forward 
several documents to set out their costs which included what they considered to be owed to 
them as part of the claim, and build costs for the various works still outstanding. 
Given the level of work required and the description of what had happened within the various 
reports, I felt it appropriate that a new scope of works be put together by someone qualified 
and independent, and that a tender process takes place in order to establish reasonable 
costs. I said this as I was unable to verify the costings Mrs W and Mr W had put forward. I 
felt these were all isolated costs and didnt form what I considered to be a reasonable scope 
of works. 
However, Mrs W and Mr W maintained their position that they wished for the claim to be 
settled based on the costs they put forward, rather than the intended direction I set out on 4 November 2021. 
Weve now reached a point in this dispute where all parties have agreed to settle the claim 
based on the costings Mrs W and Mr W put forward. And whilst this isnt something I had 
endorsed (or intended to do here as part of my decision making), as all parties agree with 
this, its not something I will interfere with. NFU will therefore cash settle the claim based on 
the costings put forward which totals £182,558.39. Included within this is the additional 
months alternative accommodation, storage and council tax Mrs W and Mr W requested. 
As the claim will be cash settled based on these costings, I must again be clear to all parties 
on where NFUs liability would end in respect of the claim. Once NFU have cash settled it, 
their liability would end. This means any further issues regarding repairs by contractors of 
Mrs W and Mr Ws choosing or further payments would not be the responsibility of NFU. And 
the cash settlement would mean the claim has been resolved in full and final settlement. 
Ive also gone on to consider the further aspects that remain outstanding  put forward by 
Mrs W and Mr Ws representative. Namely, the financial losses hes requesting to be paid by 
NFU, his direct loss of earnings for the duration of the claim period and compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Ill address each in turn. 
Given NFU have now agreed to cash settle the claim to the amount requested by Mrs W and 
Mr W, Im unable to agree Mrs W and Mr W have provided strong supporting evidence to 
substantiate a further direct financial loss here to the value of £500,000, outside the claim 
costs already agreed to be paid by NFU. Therefore, I dont agree a further amount of 
£500,000 is due, so I wont be directing NFU to pay this as part of my decision. 
The loss of earnings Mrs W and Mr Ws representative is claiming for he says are his direct 
loss of earnings, not Mrs W and Mr Ws. Ive looked at the insurance policy Mrs W and Mr W 
held, and Ive seen the policy was taken out for their benefit only, and not their 
representative. He is not named on the policy which forms the contract of insurance. 
Therefore, Mrs W and Mr Ws representative is not an eligible complainant under the rules 
that apply, that are set out within the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook under the 
Dispute Resolution Rules. The loss hes described here wasnt incurred by Mrs W and Mr W 
who are the eligible complainants in this case. 
I set out within my provisional decision Im aware Mrs W and Mr Ws representative has 
been handling the claim and subsequent complaint on their behalf since it was reported in 
2018. And hes told us when he met with NFU in 2019, he was told they would put matters 
right in respect of his loss of earnings at the end stage of the complaint. 
Ive no reason to doubt Mrs W and Mr Ws representatives testimony. But Im only able to 
make an award for loss of earnings to eligible complainants. So, for the reasons set out 
above, I wont be directing NFU to cover Mrs W and Mr Ws representatives direct loss of 
earnings hes requested. 
Im aware Mrs W and Mr W do not think the compensation amount I previously set out goes 
far enough to recognise the impact the last few years has had on them. Ive carefully 
considered their views on this both prior to my provisional decision, and the further 
submissions that followed this. 
Having done so, Im in agreement they were let down by NFU. They had insurance in place 
to mitigate the impact any potential claim issue may have on them. However, despite this, 
theyve had to endure witnessing their home suffer further extensive damage, delays and 
poor workmanship. Theyve described the impact the way things were handled had on them and Im in agreement the impact was severe. 
It remains my view the reason why the claim is still running today is due to the level of 
workmanship undertaken by NFU  which in turn resulted in Mrs W and Mr W having to 
request works stop twice. This in turn resulted in severe delays in them getting back into 
their home. They are in their 70s and 80s and have been living in alternative 
accommodation for the last few years. And I set out  particularly after having read what they 
described to us in terms of the impact this has had on them  an increase in compensation 
was due following our investigators recommendation. 
Im also aware payments for alternative accommodation regularly arrived late and for 
prolonged periods which would have been extremely worrying for Mrs W and Mr W. They 
were told alternative accommodation wouldnt be extended as their home had been deemed 
habitable. I set out within my provisional decision I didnt agree with this based on the 
various surveyors reports Ive seen outlining the works that were undertaken. 
In concluding, I do understand this has been a very difficult period for Mrs W and Mr W. And 
its because of that, I remain that the compensation amount for distress and inconvenience 
should reflect the severity of the impact this on them and be increased from £1,000 to 
£2,500. 
I do accept this aspect of my decision will come as a considerable disappointment to Mrs W 
and Mr W. I do however hope now, given all parties agree to settle the claim using the 
costings they provided, they can move forward from this after a very difficult time. 
Putting things right
All parties have agreed to cash settle the claim based on the costings put forward by Mrs W 
and Mr W. And whilst this wasnt my intended direction, I wont interfere with how all parties 
are prepared to resolve this aspect of the matter. 
The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited must now pay Mrs W and Mr 
W £182,558.39 in full and final settlement of the complaint. They must also pay Mrs W and 
Mr W £2,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  deducting any 
payment of compensation already paid (if applicable) following our investigators 
recommendations (my award is £2,500 in total). 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint. I now require The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited to do the following: 
Cash settle the claim and pay Mrs W and Mr W £182,558.39; and 
Pay them £2,500 compensation (less any amount already paid as stated above 
under heading putting things right).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman