DRN-3037203
The complaint
Mr Ds complained that MCE Insurance Limited (MCE) sold him motorbike insurance with an 
excess amount that was unfairly high.
What happened
Mr D arranged an annual policy through MCE in July 2020 over the phone. 
After taking out the policy, Mr D complained to MCE that the policy excess of £1,050 was 
unfairly high. He felt it should be somewhere between £400 and £500 and that MCE had 
discriminated against him based on the type of motorbike he wanted to insure and his 
disability. 
MCE didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It explained that the policy he was offered was based 
on the risk presented. And that it had offered him a separate policy to effectively reduce the 
excess payable in the event of a fault claim, which hed declined. Mr D had chosen to go 
ahead with the policy.
Unhappy with MCEs response, Mr D complained to us. One of our investigators looked into 
the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They were satisfied that the 
price had been legitimately set and made clear to Mr D before and after the sale. The 
investigator felt Mr D had opted to take out the cover and that MCE hadnt discriminated 
against him.
Mr D didnt agree with those findings. He said another financial business had cancelled a 
previous policy and that that was being held against him in taking out cover in 2020. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aspects of Mr Ds complaint touch on the actions of the relevant insurer in setting the 
policys terms and conditions. MCE, as a broker, wasnt responsible for those actions. Nor 
was it responsible for a previous policy being cancelled. If Mr D isnt happy about the insurer 
its open for him to complain to it if he hasnt already done so. 
In dealing with this complaint, however, my focus has been on the actions of MCE. Having 
considered this complaint, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
During the call in which Mr D obtained a quote from MCE, the agent told him that, based on 
the details hed provided, the excess was £1,050. Although Mr D told the agent very clearly 
that he felt the excess was high, he nevertheless went ahead with the policy. He said other 
quotes hed received elsewhere were considerably higher, meaning he didnt have a choice 
but to take out the cover through MCE. 
The agent checked with their manager and confirmed to Mr D that nothing could be done to 
reduce the excess. 
After agreeing to the cover, I can see that Mr D was sent a policy schedule which confirmed 
the excess was £1,050, in line with what he was told over the phone. The policy terms 
explained how Mr D could go about cancelling the policy if he changed his mind and the 
charges that would apply.
In the circumstances, I think MCE clearly explained the policy excess to Mr D at the time of 
the sale and that he nevertheless chose to go ahead with the cover on the terms offered.
Even if I thought MCE didnt make the policy excess clear (which I dont), in order to make 
an award of compensation Id need to go on and consider if Mr D lost out as a result. From 
what Ive seen, Mr D hasnt suffered any loss. I say that because Im not aware that Mr Ds 
had cause to claim on the policy to the extent that the excess hes complained about ever 
became payable.
If anything, from what Mr D told MCE the premium for the policy it sold him was significantly 
lower than for other insurers. So, it could be that Mr Ds financially benefitted in some ways 
from taking the policy sold by MCE.  
Mr D complained not only about the excess but also that MCE had discriminated against him 
on the grounds of his disability.
Having considered the evidence, I dont think MCEs treated Mr D unfairly or unreasonably in 
this case. I believe MCE properly handled Mr Ds application details and fairly provided a 
quote accordingly. As Ive said, MCE wasnt the insurer and so wasnt responsible for setting 
the terms and conditions  including the excess amount  Mr D was offered. For 
completeness, Id add that I think the agent that set up the policy for Mr D dealt with the call, 
although challenging at times, with patience and empathy.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe MCE treated Mr D unfairly regarding the 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman