DRN-2140751
The complaint
Mr C complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc wrongly declined a claim on his pet insurance 
policy - and that Pinnacle had told him it would be covered. 
What happened
Mr C took out a lifetime pet insurance policy with Pinnacle for his dog, R, in October 2018 
and renewed it the following year. 
On 30 September 2019, Mr C registered with a new vet and took R in for a check-up. He 
says the vet told him R had entropian issues  his eyelids were rolling inwards. Mr C says he 
was told that it was nothing to worry about and no treatment was needed at that time. But by 
the beginning of January 2020 Rs eyes were worse and the vet said surgery was required. 
He says he rang Pinnacle to check whether this treatment would be covered by his pet 
insurance and they told him to go ahead  that he could send the vets bill straight to them 
for payment. 
Mr C took R for surgery in January 2020 and submitted a claim to Pinnacle for the cost of 
£366.33 to be paid directly to the vet. But the following week Pinnacle wrote to Mr C saying 
Rs medical notes showed that hed suffered eye problems in 2017, which Mr C hadnt told 
them about when he applied for the policy. They said that, as R had issues with his eyes 
before the policy started, theyd placed an exclusion on the policy for all eye problems  and 
that his claim wouldnt be paid. 
Our investigator thought Pinnacle had dealt with Mr Cs claim fairly. She noted that, when Mr 
C took out the policy in 2018, hed answered no to questions about whether his dog had 
ever seen a vet for anything other than routine appointments, and whether he was aware of 
any condition that the dog may already have or have had in the past. She thought it was 
clear from Rs notes that hed been suffering problems with his eyes since 2017  and that 
Mr C wouldve known about this because the soreness was visible and eyedrops were 
prescribed. She also thought that, even if Pinnacle hadnt applied the exclusion to the policy, 
the treatment wouldnt have been covered because R already had entropian problems 
before the policy was taken out. 
The investigator didnt think Pinnacle had told Mr C that the claim would be covered  she 
said it isnt the claim handlers role to confirm whether or not a particular claim will be paid. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view, so the case has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect insurers to cover every eventuality  theyre entitled to 
decide what cover theyre prepared to offer. When customers apply for a policy, insurers ask 
questions to help them decide whether to offer cover, and if so, on what terms. The relevant 
law here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
answering questions at the point of buying or renewing an insurance policy. 
CIDRA gives insurers remedies to deal with certain situations where a consumer hasnt 
taken reasonable care and misrepresented something. To qualify for these remedies, the 
insurer must show that they wouldve offered the policy on different terms, or not at all, if the 
consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
The test is how much care a reasonable consumer wouldve taken when they answered the 
insurers questions. CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the 
consumer failed to take reasonable care, including how clear and specific the insurers 
questions were. The remedy available to the insurer depends on whether the consumer 
made the representation deliberately, recklessly or carelessly. With this in mind Ive 
reviewed the questions asked in Pinnacles online application form, as well as Rs medical 
history.
The evidence shows that, when Mr C applied for the policy, he was asked whether R had 
seen a vet for anything other than annual health checks, routine vaccinations or other 
preventative care - and Mr C answered no. Pinnacle say theyre satisfied that they asked a 
clear and specific question. They consider Mr C to have made a careless misrepresentation 
by not telling them about Rs previous eye problems.
Rs medical history shows that the vet noticed problems with his eyes during routine check-
ups, so I can understand why Mr C might reasonably say that hed never taken R to the vet 
for anything other than routine visits. But Pinnacles online application followed this up with a 
specific question about any conditions R may already have or may have had in the past. Ive 
seen that, if Mr C was unsure how to answer either of these questions, further information 
could be found by clicking one of the question marks next to them, which explains:
It is important you advise us of any condition your pet may already have suffered/be 
suffering from or any change in their normal healthy state of health even if medical 
treatment was not/is not being sought. Our team of underwriters will then review 
your case and if necessary contact your vet to obtain further information. In doing so 
we can then advise you from the outset if there are any conditions for which your pet 
will not be covered. 
And so, even if I accept that Mr C may not have realised that he needed to tell Pinnacle 
about any particular visit to the vet, I consider it reasonable for him to have realised 
that he needed to tell them about any condition R had. The evidence from Mr Cs 
previous vet shows that, in November 2017, R was noted to have blepharospasm 
(blinking or twitching) in his left eye, entropian issues in both eyes and moderate 
conjunctivitis. He was prescribed eyedrops. The evidence shows this wasnt an isolated 
issue. In May 2018, the nurse noticed that Rs eyes were slightly red and suggested it 
might be worth seeing a vet. Those notes say Mr C was giving R antihistamines at 
home. And in November 2018, the month after the policy was taken out, the vets notes 
again refer to problems with Rs eyes - saying this was possibly due to an allergic 
reaction as Mr C had said it was worse during the summer and that he was treating it 
with antihistamines. 
I appreciate that Mr C may not have been told, or fully understood, the diagnosis of Rs 
eye problems before he took the policy out. But Im satisfied that he was aware that R 
had pre-existing issues with his eyes, because the evidence shows that they were 
visible and that R had been prescribed eyedrops in the past. Im also satisfied that, 
even if he thought the problems may have been caused or made worse by allergies, it 
wouldve been reasonable for him to tell Pinnacle about this when he applied for pet insurance. And I find that, if Mr C had mentioned it, Pinnacle wouldve reviewed Rs 
medical records and excluded cover for eye problems. 
So, although I appreciate that Mr C will be disappointed with this decision, I dont find 
Pinnacle to have acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining his claim and applying an 
exclusion to his policy for eye problems. 
Mr C says he went ahead with Rs surgery because Pinnacle told him it would be covered, 
so Ive looked into whether they misled him about this. Ive listened to the recordings of the 
two calls Mr C made to Pinnacle before he submitted the claim. 
During the first call the claims handler told Mr C that, as his policy covered him for vets fees, 
and surgery falls under vet fees, hed most likely be covered  but that she couldnt say over 
the phone what would be accepted. She said it was definitely worth putting a claim form in. 
Mr C queried this, saying hed expected to have to ask them first rather than putting the 
claim form in without knowing whether it would be accepted. The claims handler repeated 
that vets fees are covered by the policy  but that she couldnt say that it would definitely be 
covered. Mr C asked whether he should just go ahead, get it done and then put the claim in. 
The claims handler said yes 100%. She went on to say that he could agree with his vet 
whether theyd send their invoice direct to Pinnacle or if hed pay the bill himself and submit 
a claim for reimbursement of the cost.
On the second call Mr C asked about an unrelated procedure that R would be having while 
he was under anaesthetic for his eye surgery. Im satisfied that the claims handler told him 
again that there was no guarantee that any claim would be accepted. 
Having reviewed these calls, Im satisfied that Pinnacle didnt authorise Rs surgery or tell Mr 
C that it would be covered under his policy. I consider that, when the claims handler told him 
that he could go ahead with the surgery and either submit the claim himself or through his 
vet, she was simply advising him of the process to follow. I realise Mr C feels this wasnt 
made clear to him. But even if hed fully appreciated that this surgery may not be covered by 
his policy, Im not persuaded that he wouldve done anything different. I say this because Mr 
C has told us that he adores his dog and wouldve paid for what he considers to be relatively 
low-cost surgery if it was needed. So I dont find Pinnacle to have done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman