DRN-3290387
The complaint
Miss H complains about One Insurance Limited (One). Her complaint is about Ones 
decision to cancel her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss H had a motor insurance policy with One. In July 2021 she received an email from One 
telling her that they had cancelled her policy. Not understanding why her policy had been 
cancelled, Miss H contacted One, who initially said it was because the vehicle shed insured 
wasnt registered in her name. Miss H challenged this as she had the registration document 
for her vehicle that was in her name. One then said the cancellation was because her 
vehicle had previously been declared a write off, but she hadnt told them of this when she 
took out her policy. Therefore, shed made a misrepresentation and as such they were 
entitled to avoid her policy (that is, cancel it as if it had never been taken out).
At the time of the cancellation of her policy Miss H had an ongoing claim under her policy 
from an accident in June 2021 (which she believed wasnt her fault). As well as cancelling 
her policy, One also told Miss H that they wouldnt accept her claim. Miss H told One that 
she bought the vehicle privately in 2018 and had no knowledge of it previously being a write 
off. She also said that this hadnt been raised as an issue when she had previously insured 
the vehicle with two other insurers. 
Unhappy at having her policy cancelled and her claim declined, Miss H complained to One. 
One didnt uphold her complaint. In their final response, One said that when asked to confirm 
details prior to payment when taking out the policy, Miss H would have been made aware 
that her vehicle must not be a registered write off. Also, the policy documentation 
subsequently sent to Miss H asked her to review the information to ensure it was correct, 
and that incorrect information may mean no cover is provided and claims may be declined. 
One confirmed their view that they considered Miss H not telling them about her vehicle 
being a write off to be a careless misrepresentation. Had they known this when she took out 
her policy they would not have offered cover. Based on this they were entitled to avoid her 
policy (but return the premiums) and decline her claim.
Unhappy at Ones rejection of her complaint, Miss H complained to this service. She thought 
One should have identified her vehicle as being previously written off when she took out her 
policy (given that she wasnt aware when she bought the vehicle). She wanted One to 
apologise for cancelling her policy and for the stress that this had caused her. She also 
wanted One to reinstate her policy and accept her claim.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded that One hadnt acted fairly in 
avoiding Miss Hs policy and declining her claim. The investigator, firstly, didnt think that 
Miss H had been asked a clear and specific question about whether her vehicle had 
previously been written off. The investigator also didnt think that (as One argued) being 
asked to confirm that her vehicle wasnt previously a write off was sufficiently clear (nor this 
being mentioned in the subsequent policy documentation). The investigator, secondly, 
thought it reasonable that Miss H wouldnt have understood (from the description of her 
vehicle on the registration document) that it had previously been a write off. Therefore, shed 
taken reasonable care in answering the questions when she took out her policy and hadnt 
made a misrepresentation.
 
To put things right, the investigator thought that One should reinstate her policy and consider 
her claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy. The investigator also thought One 
should pay Miss H £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
One disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They thought theyd acted correctly to cancel Miss Hs policy, as she had been 
asked a clear question when she took out her policy about whether her vehicle had 
previously been written off. They added that the policy documentation subsequently sent to 
Miss H made it clear that if her vehicle had previously been written off, she would need to tell 
them as it may affect her policy.
In my findings, I disagreed with the investigators view. I concluded that the evidence 
indicated that One would not, under its own underwriting guidelines, have offered Miss H 
cover for her vehicle had they known that it had previously been written off. As such I was 
satisfied that this would have been a qualifying misrepresentation under The Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
 
I also considered whether Miss H should reasonably have been aware that her vehicle had 
previously been written off. I concluded that she should, based on information in the vehicle 
registration document. I also thought it reasonable to expect Miss H to have carried out a 
check on the vehicles history that might have revealed more about it, including whether it 
had been previously written off. Overall, I concluded Miss H hadnt taken reasonable care to 
check the vehicles history and so she made a careless misrepresentation.
I also considered whether, having concluded Miss H should have been reasonably aware 
that the vehicle had previously been written off, she should reasonably have disclosed this to 
One. I concluded from the evidence about what she was asked when she took out her policy 
that she should. 
As I was satisfied Miss Hs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, I then 
considered whether One acted fairly in accordance with CIDRA. CIDRA states that when 
theres a careless misrepresentation the insurer may still avoid the policy where they 
wouldnt have offered the cover at all, but they should refund the insurance premiums for the 
relevant period of the cover. As this is what One did when they cancelled Miss Hs policy, I 
concluded they acted fairly and reasonably in cancelling her policy (and declining her claim) 
while returning her premiums.
Because I disagreed with the investigators view, I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of her complaint.
 
The key issue in Miss Hs complaint is whether One acted fairly in cancelling her policy and 
declining her claim. There are two elements to this issue. First, whether Miss H was asked a 
clear question about whether her vehicle had previously written off (and that it was clear that 
she should tell One if this was the case). Second, whether it was reasonable for Miss H to 
have been aware that her vehicle had previously been written off.
 Looking at the second element first, Miss H says that she didnt realise that the vehicle had 
previously been the subject of a write off, and that this hadnt been an issue when shed 
previously insured the vehicle with two other insurers. One maintain that Miss H should have 
told them that her vehicle had been the subject of a write off when she took out the policy, 
and that had she done so they wouldnt have offered to cover her vehicle. As such, shed 
made a misrepresentation when she took out the policy. One considered this to be a 
careless misrepresentation and, as such, they were entitled to cancel the policy from the 
date it was taken out. This also meant they were entitled to decline her claim.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
Ive seen the evidence that One would not, under its own underwriting guidelines, have 
offered Miss H cover for her vehicle had they known that it had previously been written off. 
That means Im satisfied this would have been a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA.
 
As Im satisfied that the misrepresentation was a qualifying one, the key issue is whether 
Miss H took reasonable care when she took out her policy in answering the questions and 
providing accurate and complete information [about whether her vehicle had previously been 
written off]. CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer 
failed to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
One thinks Miss H failed to take reasonable care when she failed to notify them of her 
vehicle previously being written off. From what Ive seen, it isnt in doubt that the vehicle was 
previously written off. One have provided details from the insurance industry database of 
claims, but the principal evidence that Miss H would have had on this point is the registration 
document for her vehicle. Ive looked at the document and at the bottom of the first page of 
the document theres a section headed Special notes (these cannot be removed). 
Underneath this heading theres the following text:
NO OF FORMER KEEPERS  5
1. DECLARED NEW AT FIRST REGISTRATION
2. THIS VEHICLE HAS BEEN SALVAGED BECAUSE THE ESTIMATED COST OF 
COMMERCIAL REPAIR WAS MORE THAN THE VALUE OF THE VEHICLE.
The first two lines are standard. But the second reference is relevant, as it means that the 
vehicle was previously written off, because the estimated [commercial] cost of repair was 
more than the value of the vehicle.
As Miss H had the registration document the key question is whether she should have 
noticed the additional reference and understood that it meant her vehicle had previously 
been a write off. Ive thought very carefully about this, and whether a reasonable consumer 
should have understood it to mean that a vehicle had previously been written off. On 
balance, I think a reasonable consumer should have noticed the reference and understood 
that it meant that the vehicle had previously been written off.Miss H also says that she bought the vehicle privately and had an engineer look it over and 
no issues were found. I accept that this may have been the case, but Ive also considered 
whether Miss H carried out any other check on the vehicles history that might have revealed 
more about it, including such things as whether it had been previously written off, or that it 
was the subject of outstanding finance etc. In terms of reasonable care, our approach is that 
as a minimum a consumer should demonstrate that they carried out some form of check on 
the vehicle. Im not aware that Miss H carried out such a check. Together with my conclusion 
that the reference on the vehicle registration document should have indicated that the 
vehicle had previously been written off, I dont think Miss H took reasonable care to check 
the vehicles history. So Ive concluded that she made a careless misrepresentation.
Miss H also says that One should have identified her vehicle as being previously written off 
when she took out her policy. However, I dont agree as the onus is on the consumer to 
provide accurate and complete information when taking out a policy.
Ive then turned to the first of the two elements, whether Miss H was asked a clear question 
about whether her vehicle had previously written off (and that it was clear that she should tell 
One if this was the case). Ones argument is that Miss H would, as part of her online journey 
when she took out the policy, have been presented with a list of assumptions. One provided 
a screenshot of what this would have looked like. Its headed It is important that you are 
aware of the following: and the first of the points is listed as:
Your vehicle must not be registered a write off
The consumer then has to click a box at the foot of the list, labelled Confirm & Continue, in 
order to progress further. While this isnt a specific question to which a specific [yes/no] 
answer is given, it does ask the consumer to specifically confirm the list of points (including 
that the vehicle isnt registered as a write off). One have also said that their new business 
letter includes a reference that:
 
Please note if your vehicle has previously been written off or deemed beyond 
economical repair you will need to inform us as this may affect your policy.
While this reference isnt particularly prominent, and doesnt indicate clearly that the policy 
wouldnt be valid, I think it does (alongside the list of issues that the consumer is asked to 
confirm) in combination indicate that Miss H should have been aware of the need to tell One 
about a vehicle previously being the subject of a write off. 
Taking the two elements together, then Ive concluded that Miss H didnt take reasonable 
care to establish that her vehicle had previously been a write off and that she should have 
been aware of the need to tell One about the vehicle having previously being a write off.
 
As Im satisfied Miss Hs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, and that as One 
wouldnt have offered cover had it known that her vehicle had previously been written off, 
then Ive considered whether One acted fairly in accordance with CIDRA. CIDRA states that 
when theres a careless misrepresentation the insurer may still avoid the policy where it 
wouldnt have offered the cover at all, but it should refund the insurance premiums for the 
relevant period of the cover. This is what One did when they cancelled Miss Hs policy, so 
Ive concluded theyve acted fairly and reasonably in cancelling her policy (and declining her 
claim) while returning her premiums.
my provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision not to uphold Miss Hs complaint.Neither Miss H nor One responded by the date requested
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld.
As neither Miss H nor One responded by the date requested, I havent changed my view not 
to uphold Miss Hs complaint. So, my final decision and reasoning remains the same as in 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Miss Hs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman