DRN-3685593
The complaint
Mr H complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan in 2015. He says the advice 
was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Portal Financial Services LLP is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer to Portal. 
What happened
Mr H paid Portal for advice in relation to his pension and retirement needs. Portal ultimately 
facilitated Mr H transferring away from his OPS, to a personal pension plan. It said he could 
access a tax-free cash element and invest the remainder in various funds within a new 
personal pension plan it recommended.
The information gathered by Portal about Mr H at the time was broadly as follows:
Mr H was 56 years old living with his wife who was then aged 57. They had one child 
who was not financially dependent on them. Mr and Mrs H earned around £1,600 
and £1,100 per month (net) respectively.
Mr and Mrs H owned their home valued at £130,000 with a nine-year mortgage left to 
run, costing around £300 per month. They had no other apparent assets and a small 
car loan which was being paid down.
Mr H was a current and contributing member of his employers OPS, having joined 
the scheme in the 1990s. The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the OPS in 
2015 was £119,553 (later recalculated as £122,487) with a normal retirement age of 
66.
Mr H complained to Portal in 2021 that he was given unsuitable advice. However, Portal 
says that in its dealings with Mr H, it first told him that it didnt think he ought to transfer away 
from his DB scheme. It said it told him its advice was not to transfer out. 
However, Portal says Mr H became an insistent client  a term used within the industry 
when a client wants to go against what was recommended to them by their adviser. Portal 
says that only when Mr H insisted, did it then go on to make a second recommendation: that 
he transfer to a personal pension plan, take a 25% tax-free lump sum, and invest the rest in 
various money market funds. It says when he agreed to this course of action, it then 
facilitated the transfer from the OPS to a personal plan.
The complaint has been referred to our Service. One of our investigators looked into it and 
said we should uphold it. They thought Portal hadnt treated Mr H correctly when 
categorising him as an insistent client and that the advice to transfer the OPS was 
unsuitable. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Portal's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. 
Having considered all the circumstances in this case, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. 
Introduction
I would normally begin by assessing whether the transfer of the pension was financially 
viable. For instance, Id look at whether there was evidence Mr Hs DB pension could 
potentially grow outside his OPS, to an extent where transferring to a type of money market 
scheme in a personal pension was worthwhile. And Id compare these types of projections 
against the valuable benefits and guarantees Mr H would be giving up by leaving a DB 
scheme.
However, in this case, Portal itself has said its initial advice was not to transfer. So, having 
said in 2015  and again in 2021, following the complaint - that transferring wasnt suitable, it 
would obviously be very hard for Portal now to argue that it was.
For the record, I agree that transferring wasnt suitable. Everything Ive seen shows Mr Hs 
OPS would have had to grow outside the scheme at very substantial rates year-on-year, to 
make transferring worthwhile. So, transferring simply wasnt suitable, from a financial 
comparison perspective and the evidence is very strong in this regard.There were also other significant reasons why transferring wasnt suitable which in the main 
related to the benefits and guarantees within the current scheme Mr H would be giving up by 
transferring away. 
However, as theres no dispute that transferring wasnt suitable, I dont need to spend any 
more time explaining why.
What was Portal required to do?
Portal says Mr H ultimately went against its advice. It says that he was advised that he ought 
to stay in the DB scheme, and it was Mr H himself that insisted he wanted to transfer out. 
Portal says this meant he became an insistent client and that accordingly, it followed a 
process to transfer Mr Hs OPS to a personal pension plan, as per his wishes. 
At the time when Portal met with Mr H and was advising him, there was no specific 
regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of insistent clients. However, as Ive 
pointed out above, there were a number of important general rules in the regulators 
Handbook. These included but were not limited to a requirement upon Portal to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. In addition to this, 
COBS required Portal to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Everything Ive said above therefore demonstrates that firms, like Portal, had a number of 
important responsibilities when providing this type of financial advice. For example, despite 
what Mr H might have thought he wanted at the time, Portals job here, as a regulated 
adviser, was to provide advice that was clear and in his best interests. In particular, Portal 
should have been clear that if it was not recommending a particular transaction or course of 
action, then the risks of what Mr H was apparently interested in were clearly pointed out 
during the course of the advice.
I dont think Portal adequately did this. 
Initial contacts between the parties
The evidence Ive seen strongly suggests Portals intention from the outset was always to 
facilitate the transfer from Mr Hs OPS, to a personal pension plan.
I say this because Mr H has provided plausible testimony that it was Portal that drove the 
idea of transferring away, following either an advert or cold call. Similarly, Mr H says it was 
Portal, rather than him, which suggested a reason why he might want to access some cash 
and that his pension might be a vehicle to release it, particularly as he had an important 
family event to pay for in the near future. 
Portal built on this approach by then writing an initial letter to Mr H, on 5 November 2015, 
basically saying it had collected enough information about his existing scheme and that hed 
be able to access a tax-free lump sum of almost £30,000. Portal knew that Mr H was 
interested in generating money for the family event. And the wording of this initial letter, in 
my view, encouraged him to immediately access his pension funds straightaway, by moving 
to a personal plan. No assessment appears to have been carried out by Portal as to the 
amount Mr H might have needed to pay for this event and the evidence showed he already 
had disposable income and probably various other ways of paying for what he wanted to do.
I think the letter of 5 November was misleading. The amount of tax-free cash quoted by 
Portal in the letter was, in fact, based on 25% of Mr Hs CETV and it could only be accessed 
in the way Portal was suggesting by transferring out to a personal pension plan. I also think 
its enlightening that Portal was also promoting this type of action before it had even collected sufficient information about Mr Hs circumstances and needs: Portals fact-find 
wasnt completed until 17 November 2015. 
Its therefore my conclusion that this letter was already paving the way for a transfer-out to 
take place.
On 23 November 2015 Portal wrote to Mr H again. Here, it said it wouldnt be minded to 
recommend a transfer-out. However, this letter was barely one page long and in my view, it 
contained several substantial shortcomings. 
Firstly, I dont think Mr H would have been able to really understand what was being said in 
the letter, particularly as to the reasons why transferring out evidently wasnt being 
recommended. For example, Portal focussed its advice at that point, on the issue of the 
critical yield. The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would 
be required on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the 
same annuity income as the DB scheme. So, it is part of a range of different things which 
can help show how likely it is that a personal pension plan could achieve the necessary 
investment growth for a transfer-out to become financially viable. 
In this letter, Portal was implying the critical yields were high, thus making a transfer-out to a 
personal plan not worthwhile in Mr Hs case. However, in my view, Portal did a very poor job 
at explaining all this. It also made errors in explaining which critical yield figures actually 
applied in Mr Hs case and it failed to explain what these yields really meant. So, I dont think 
Mr H would have understood the issues being raised, why they mattered and what he ought 
to do as regards his pension.
Secondly, as Ive mentioned briefly above, Mr H was a current and contributing member of 
his OPS at the time Portal was advising him on these matters. This means that both he and 
his then employer were therefore making contributions towards his OPS and that his pension 
benefits were continuing to grow each month as a consequence of these contributions. As a 
current member of the scheme, Mr H also enjoyed a variety of benefits such as life cover 
and certain financial guarantees relating to his spouse, Mrs H.
Overall, Portal did a very poor job indeed at highlighting the significance of him being a 
current member of his OPS. By leaving to transfer to a personal plan, Mr H was giving up 
these benefits and guarantees, but Portal made only scant reference to this in its dealings 
with Mr H: it was briefly mentioned on the fact-find and no mention of was made of it at all in 
the letter of 23 November 2015. Portal therefore failed to comprehensively address, what 
was, a major reason for not transferring away from his OPS. 
What Portal should have been doing here was genuinely promoting to Mr H, the value of 
remaining where he was with his pension and explaining to him why. In my view, remaining 
in the DB scheme was by far much more in his best interests, and if he needed to raise 
some cash for a specific reason, Mr H should have been advised of the many other ways of 
doing this rather than irreversibly transferring out of his DB scheme.  
A third failing in the letter of 23 November 2015 was the contradictory message if was giving. 
Mr H was paying a considerable amount of money for this advice and I think his expectation 
would have been that it would be clear. However, despite initially saying in the letter that a 
transfer wasnt being recommended, Portal immediately undermined this by saying it could 
facilitate the transfer in any event. It enclosed a pre-populated form and invited Mr H to self-
declare himself as an insistent client. There followed two options for Mr H - the first of these 
was actually to transfer, despite Portal having said this wasnt recommended; whilst the 
second option was to do nothing. So, in summarising Portals dealings with Mr H up to this point, I think its reasonable to say 
that its communications lacked in both clarity and objectivity. If Portal really was to have 
effectively communicated to Mr H that its advice was not to transfer out of the DB scheme at 
all, I would have expected the do nothing option to be the only one available at this point 
together with a clear set of explanations of what this was based on. 
The suitability report
Whilst up to this point Mr H had received some short letters from Portal, I can see he would 
have also undergone a telephone consultation to talk about his personal circumstances and 
financial objectives. An initial transfer analysis was commissioned at the beginning of 
November 2015  this contained errors and was redone on 10 December 2015. However, it 
is common in pension transfer advice cases to see the businesss formal recommendation 
about what to do set out in a suitability report. This was produced on 11 December 2015.
However, as Ive described above, the suitability report in this case was issued after Mr H 
had already been invited to self-declare himself as an insistent client. 
So, I think the actions of Portal here fell substantially short of what Id expect to see from a 
regulated financial adviser. Not only was the suitability report issued several weeks after 
important decisions had evidently been made, like the letters preceding it, it was saying one 
thing, but really facilitating another. For example, while on first look the report did set out that 
its initial recommendation for him was not to transfer out, I think this was seriously 
undermined by statements and actions it made directly after this. This approach was 
therefore identical to the preceding letter - Portals report was completely pre-disposed to 
enabling Mr H to transfer out of his OPS from the outset. And so, its initial recommendation 
did no more than pay lip service to the important benefits and guarantees Mr H would be 
giving up in the process.
I say all this because although there was a recommendation not to transfer out of his DB 
scheme, this was set out only briefly at the beginning of the report. Here would have been an 
appropriate point at which Portal could have clearly told Mr H why he shouldnt transfer. 
There should have been an explanation of the benefits hed be giving up and a 
demonstration that his funds, if transferred out of the scheme, would be highly unlikely to 
grow in a way that would match the benefits of leaving them inside the scheme. 
By seeing this, Mr H would have been able to judge that by transferring, his pension benefits 
would be considerably lower in the longer term. This could have been done with much 
clearer references to the critical yield or other growth-related comparisons, together with 
accompanying explanations. Portal also ought to have explained the impact of transferring 
on Mr Hs wider retirement plans, including whether hed have enough income to live on at 
his desired retirement age if he transferred out and spent most of his tax-free lump sum. 
Furthermore, Portal should have addressed the issue of Mr Hs current membership of his 
OPS.
However, it was only later in the report that minor references were made to what Mr H would 
be giving up and, in my view, these dangers were substantially underplayed. The majority of 
the remaining part of the suitability report was devoted to the personal plan fund 
recommendations. What I would expect to see here was a meaningful emphasis in the 
documentation showing the reasons why the transfer was not in Mr Hs best interests. 
However, I reiterate that by the time of the suitability report, important decisions had already 
been made  so what did or didnt follow in the report could be said to be moot points. It is 
my view that Portals actions and inactions here fitted the regulators later definition of a 
papering exercise designed to quickly complete the transfer-out process at all costs. Portals recommendation simply wasnt clear, or indeed genuine, and it comprehensively 
failed to set out its advice with due care and skill.
Was Mr H really an insistent client?
I dont believe the evidence is plausible that Mr H even was an insistent client. The 
evidence Ive seen is strongly suggestive of him not being experienced in these types of 
financial matters and so was heavily influenced by his advisor. 
Portals explanations were poor and its communications about what it was really 
recommending for Mr H were unclear. It produced templated forms and statements which I 
think offered Mr H what he thought was an easy way to achieve his short-term financial 
objectives at the time. These forms failed to highlight the risks and issues of him giving up 
his pension and it failed to make it clear that transferring his pension was directly opposed to 
what was in Mr Hs overall best interests. 
If Portal had followed a much better process, I dont think Mr H would have insisted on going 
ahead with the transfer. I say this for the following reasons:
It would have been clear to Mr H what he would be losing out by transferring his 
deferred benefits.
Theres no evidence that Mr H, an inexperienced investor, desired any input or 
control over the investment choices of his pension funds.
Mr H was paying for independent financial advice, and if that advice had been 
persuasive about the suitability of remaining in his OPS, I think its more likely that 
hed have followed that advice, rather than being pushed immediately down an 
insistent client route.
Suitability of investments 
Portal recommended that Mr H invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr H and I 
dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had been 
given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme 
and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Summary
In this decision I have set out why I dont think Mr H met the definition of an insistent client. I 
think there is substantial and verifiable evidence that this process was used by Portal simply 
to transact what Mr H may have thought he wanted to achieve at the time  to transfer his 
pension out to another provider. 
Portals initial recommendation not to transfer was not comprehensive, meaningful, or easy 
to understand. It did not adequately explain why transferring out was not in Mr Hs best 
interests, in a way that was personal to him or with reference to his objectives. Portal then 
immediately offered Mr H a very easy route to transferring his pension anyway, via a series 
of choices / signatures on pre-populated forms. In this respect, the advice did not meet the 
standard I mentioned at the beginning of this decision about being clear, fair and not 
misleading.If Mr H had been given clear and persuasive reasons why transferring wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he would have followed advice to remain inside the DB scheme. Mr H went 
to Portal seeking advice. I think its much more likely that he would have followed that advice 
had it been delivered with the skill, care and diligence required and shown to be in his 
interests.
Portal failed in its duty, so Im upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr H, through his representative, whether he preferred any redress 
to be calculated now, in line with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be 
published. His representative didnt make a choice when we asked, so as set out previously 
Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am therefore satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a 
loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr H. 
Compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 66, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance. This calculation should be carried out as at the date of 
my final decision and using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of that 
decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs 
acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr H.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman