DRN-4266377
The complaint
Mr P complains about a default recorded on his credit file by Lowell Financial Ltd. 
What happened
In November 2022 Lowell purchased a debt from a business Ill call B, with an outstanding 
balance of £1,002.73. Lowell says the debt was purchased in Mr Ps name and had been 
closed at default by B on 27 July 2022. When Lowell purchased the debt it sent Mr P a 
Notice of Assignment. Lowell also started to report a default on Mr Ps credit file. 
Mr P has explained that he noticed a steep drop in his credit score a short time later. When 
Mr P checked his credit file he found Lowells default and contacted it to get more 
information. Mr P has told us Lowells staff were unable to provide many details but 
confirmed the debt had been purchased from B. Lowell went on to provide Mr P with a copy 
of the original credit agreement with B. 
Mr P complained and has explained he wasnt aware of any default action taken by B. Mr P 
also told us that no default or adverse information had been recorded by B on his credit file 
in relation to the debt. 
Lowell sent Mr P a final response on 14 April 2023 but didnt uphold his complaint. Lowell 
said B had reported the account as being in default with the credit reference agencies. But 
Lowell advised there are various credit reference agencies and its possible B reports to a 
different organisation. Lowell explained that when B sold the debt it stopped reporting the 
default on Mr Ps credit file, which is when it took over. Lowell didnt agree it had acted in 
error by reporting the default on Mr Ps credit file. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ps complaint. They were satisfied that Lowell 
had acquired a defaulted debt in Mr Ps name. The investigator added that Lowell wasnt the 
business that had closed the account at default. The investigator said Mr P could refer his 
concerns about the way his account was closed and default process to B. Mr P asked to 
appeal and explained that Lowell was mistakenly recording a default on his credit file. Mr P 
explained that B had never recorded a default and that he was unaware that his account had 
been closed at that stage. As Mr P asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has explained that B never reported his account as late or being closed at default. And 
Mr P has pointed out that he quickly contacted Lowell after his credit score reduced in early 
2023. I can understand why, if Mr P was unaware of the status of this account, he was 
shocked to find the default recorded on his credit file. And Mr P reasonably asks why Bs 
actions werent reflected on his credit file in the same way. 
In Lowells final response it lists the different credit reference agencies that operate in the 
UK. Lowell explains that businesses may report to different credit reference agencies. And 
businesses wont necessarily report information to all the credit reference agencies. Lowell 
says its possible that B doesnt report to the same credit reference agency as it does. That 
would mean the default may not have been reported by B to the credit reference agency Mr 
P uses. Ultimately, Lowell cant say why the default from B wasnt recorded with the credit 
refence agency that Mr P uses. But Mr P has the option of contacting B to check that point. 
When a business takes the decision to close an account at default it has to follow various 
steps, like notifying the borrower. Again, Lowell had already purchased the debt when this 
step had been taken by B. If Mr P is concerned that he wasnt given the relevant notice or 
information about the status of his account before it was closed at default, he has the option 
of contacting B to investigate.
I understand Mr P may feel that Lowell has taken the decision to report the default without 
reasonable grounds. But I can see that Lowell has been back to B for further information and 
guidance. As a result, Lowell has obtained a copy of the original credit agreement between 
Mr P and B. And its also obtained a copy of the transaction list that shows payments made 
to and from the account. The information from B also includes Mr Ps personal details. So 
overall, Im satisfied there is a reasonable amount of information that ties Mr P to the debt.
When Mr P contacted Lowell about the account, it contacted B to make enquiries. But B 
responded and confirmed Lowell should continue to report the account as being in default. If 
Mr P successfully challenges the circumstances of the default with B, I would expect Lowell 
to act on any instructions it receives from that business to cease reporting. But without 
confirmation from B that the default should be removed Im satisfied its reasonable for 
Lowell to report it. 
Ive also reviewed the original credit agreement Mr P entered into with B. It confirms that B 
was allowed to transfer its rights and duties under the credit agreement to a new owner 
without giving notice. And the rules Lowell operates under say it can take on reporting duties 
for a debt that is purchased in default. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but Im satisfied Lowell has provided reasonable evidence that 
confirms it purchased a debt in his name from B. And Im satisfied the information shows the 
debt was outstanding and that it was sold to Lowell when it was already in default. As Ive 
said above, if B later confirms the default has been recorded in error and should be removed 
from Mr Ps credit file Id expect Lowell to comply. 
As Im satisfied Lowell dealt with Mr Ps complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman