DRN-2474123
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the manner in which Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV) treated his no claims discount (NCD) in respect of his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C took out a policy with LV. He told it he had 17 years NCD. But it only applied nine years 
NCD to the policy. Mr C didn't think that was fair. LV told Mr C that nine years was the 
maximum NCD it allowed. But it said that when his policy term with LV comes to an end, it 
will write to him to show the actual number of years NCD hed come to it with, and how many 
years hed been insured with it for. 
Mr C didn't think that went far enough and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He didn't think LV had done anything wrong. Mr C didn't agree so 
his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Mr C told LV hed earned 17 years NCD but it only allowed him nine. So he might be worried 
that LV is unfairly denying him the benefit of 8 years of claims free motoring. But, while I can 
understand his concern, that doesn't mean LV has done anything wrong.
Ill explain that while most insurers I'm aware of will apply NCD when offering policies and 
calculating premiums, NCD is, generally, a matter thats at the discretion of the particular 
insurer involved. That is the insurer can decide whether it wishes to apply an NCD and what 
benefits that will give to the customer. And those are decisions each insurer is allowed to 
make for itself. So theres no automatic entitlement to a certain level of NCD.
And, like most insurers I'm aware of, LV puts a cap on the maximum number of NCD years it 
will allow. In LVs case that maximum is nine years. But some insurers offer as few as four 
years while others will go up to 20 or more. But, as I've indicated above, thats something 
each individual insurer is allowed to choose for itself. Its essentially a matter of commercial 
judgement, balancing the need to attract and retain customers against the desire to make a 
profit. And generally thats not something we think its fair to interfere with. So I don't think LV 
has done anything wrong in deciding that the maximum NCD allowance it will give is nine 
years. Further, Ive seen that the policy documents LV sent to Mr C are clear about what its 
NCD maximum is. So I don't think LV's acted unfairly in applying that maximum.
Also, LVs told Mr C that when his period of insurance with it comes to an end, it will give him 
a letter showing the full period of NCD he had when he first insured with it and the number of 
years claims free driving hes had since. That will allow any future insurer to see the total 
number of claims free years driving Mr Cs had. And as a result he shouldnt lose out on any 
accrued NCD years in future. I think thats fair. 
For completeness, Mr Cs told us that he had a previous complaint about a similar matter 
which we upheld. I've tried to look into that but, perhaps because this happened some years 
ago, our system shows the records - other than Mr Cs name and reference number - have 
been deleted. So I can't examine it to explain why my decision might be different. But, in any 
event, our decisions don't set precedent. That means I wouldn't be bound by a decision that 
someone else had made in another case. And I'm satisfied that LV hasn't done anything 
wrong in this instance. 
Mr Cs also given us two letters from other insurance providers. He said both of those 
businesses also applied a nine years NCD cap but had changed their decision when the 
policy was challenged. Neither of the letters Mr Cs shown to us actually say that the insurer 
has allowed Mr C more than their maximum NCD allowance when offering him cover or 
calculating his premium. But even if they did, the fact that one or more insurers had changed 
their approach to NCD after Mr C complained doesn't mean that any other insurer would 
have to do the same thing. As I've said above, its for individual insurers to decide for 
themselves what maximum NCD allowance, if any, they wish to apply. So LV wouldn't be 
under any obligation to follow what another insurer might have done.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman