DRN-4332290
The complaint
Ms D complains about the decision by Simplyhealth Access to turn down her dental claim. 
Shes also unhappy with Simplyhealths handing of the matter. 
What happened
Ms D is covered under her employers Denplan policy, underwritten by Simplyhealth. After 
Ms D made a claim for dental treatment, Simplyhealth turned this down as it said the 
treatment wasnt covered under the policy. Ms D complained to Simplyhealth about its claim 
decision, and the service it had provided. 
Simplyhealth maintained its decision to turn down the claim. But it accepted it had provided 
Ms D with a poor service, and it paid her £75 compensation for this. Unhappy with this, Ms D 
brought a complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She thought Simplyhealths decision to turn 
down the claim had been reasonable. However, she recommended that Simplyhealth 
increase the compensation payment to £250.
Simplyhealth agreed with our investigators recommendations, but Ms D did not. The matter 
has therefore been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim
The policy covers orthodontic treatment thats on the Index of Orthodontic Treatment (IOTN) 
and is grade 45, but excludes treatment thats classified as IOTN grade 1-3. 
Ive read the information provided by Ms Ds dentist (who Ill call Dr P). He said there was 
moderate wear on the upper and lower anterior teeth, and the teeth occlude together. Dr P 
said the proposed treatment was to carry out Invisalign to improve the angulation of the teeth 
and create space so he could rebuild the tooth surface. 
Simplyhealths in-house dentists have assessed this evidence, and concluded that it was 
orthodontic treatment that should be classified as IOTN grade 2. In the absence of any 
conflicting information from Dr P, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Simplyhealth to rely on 
this conclusion and therefore turn down the claim. 
Ms D says that Simplyhealth pre-approved the treatment on 7 June, and she went ahead 
with her first dental appointment on 9 June on that basis. 
On 30 May, Ms D wrote to Simplyhealth to say her dentist had explained to its claims 
department that the treatment didnt fall under the IOTN requirements. She said her dentist 
had written a letter which shed attached, and she asked if Simplyhealth could share it with a 
dentist and let her know if the treatment was covered under her policy.
Simplyhealth responded on 7 June and stated, This would fall under your restorative benefit 
which you have £2000 per policy year for with an 80% payback. The email then gave an 
overview of what the policy covered, and referred Ms D to her policy for full details of any 
limitations and exclusions.
I agree with Simplyhealth that the email could have been better worded. Ideally the email 
should have addressed the evidence Ms D had provided from Dr P, rather than just 
confirming the benefit category that a claim would fall under. But I dont think this email 
would have reasonably led Ms D to understand that the treatment had been pre-approved by 
Simplyhealth. Also, Ive listened to the calls between Simplyhealth and Ms D. Im satisfied 
that it was made clear to Ms D on three occasions before 9 June (the latest date being on 6 
June) that the IOTN grade would be needed before a claim could be agreed, and also that 
Simplyhealth would only cover IOTN grade 4-5. 
I therefore dont find that Simplyhealth led Ms D to wrongly believe her treatment would be 
covered. Im also satisfied that Simplyhealth turned down the claim in line with the policy 
terms. 
Simplyhealths service and handling of the claim
Its not in dispute that Simplyhealths service could have been better. There were various 
failings that caused Ms D unnecessary confusion and inconvenience. 
I see that Simplyhealth delayed adding Ms D to the policy, and then wrongly directed her to 
her employers HR department about this. Also, Ms D had arranged for Dr P to contact 
Simplyhealth after it had told her that it would speak with him, but Dr P then couldnt speak 
with Simplyhealths clinical team when he phoned. Also, Simplyhealth offered to call Dr P, 
but didnt do so. I agree with our investigator that some of the confusion could have been 
avoided here if Simplyhealth had done so. Then after Ms D provided Simplyhealth with 
Dr Ps letter, it delayed assessing this. Simplyhealth also wrongly told Ms D that it didnt 
have any in-house dentists and the letter would be reviewed by the claims team. 
Taking all of this into account, I find that the £250 compensation recommended by our 
investigator was reasonable in the circumstances, and reflects the impact the various issues 
had on Ms D. As Simplyhealth has already paid Ms D £75 compensation, it should now pay 
a further £175.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Simplyhealth Access to pay 
Ms D a further £175 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman