DRN-3726059
The complaint
Miss N complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC irresponsibly lent to her. 
Miss N is represented by a solicitors firm in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, 
Ill refer to any submission and comments they have made as being made by Miss N herself.
What happened
Miss N was approved for an unsecured loan of £3,000 in August 2017. She says that the 
lending was irresponsible by Tesco as she was unemployed at the time she took out the 
loan. Miss N raised a complaint with Tesco.
Tesco did not uphold her complaint. They said that the contractual monthly payments of 
£103.13 were maintained until April 2018 and the account later defaulted. Tesco said that 
Miss N declared that she had monthly income of £1,600 and £82 benefit payments each 
month. Tesco said that they used the information on her application and the information they 
obtained through Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) and based on this information they 
were happy to move forward with the application. Miss N brought her complaint to our 
service. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. He said that although Miss N told our service 
that she was unemployed at the time she took out the loan, she told Tesco, via her 
application form that she was self-employed and earning £1,600 a month. He said while 
Tesco didnt verify her income, it was reasonable for them to rely on the information she 
gave them, and he didnt think they needed to go further than they did for their checks to be 
proportionate. Our adjudicator said that in addition to this, there wasnt anything in the other 
information from the credit check that Tesco saw that meant they wouldnt have been able to 
lend to her. 
Miss N asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said she was suffering from 
mental health issues at the time of the application. She said she was unemployed, and 
Tesco did not ask her for any evidence of her income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve the credit to Miss N, Tesco needed to make proportionate 
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for her. Theres no
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to 
consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the borrower's 
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the 
consumer's personal circumstances. Ive listed below what checks Tesco have done and 
whether Im persuaded these checks were proportionate.
Tesco said that Miss Ns application showed a total net monthly income of £1,682 (net 
annual income £20,184) and that she had been self-employed for two years and four months 
prior to the loan application for home improvements. The application showed she was 
cohabiting, and she was a joint homeowner with a mortgage. They said they looked at her 
application data as well as gathering external data from credit reference agencies. The 
checks Tesco carried out showed that Miss Ns mortgage payment was £451 in the previous 
month and they had factored in her existing loan repayments of £72 a month of which she 
had total unsecured outstanding balances of £2,019. 
But thats not all the data the credit checks showed. They also showed that Miss N had no 
defaulted accounts, no public records registered, no accounts in arrears and no credit 
searches in the previous three months. 
The credit checks showed Miss N already had outstanding unsecured balances of £2,019 
and by adding £3,000 to this then this would be £5,019. Ive also considered that the loan 
Miss N was taking was over three years and the monthly repayments were for £103.13. So 
the monthly payments were (£103.13/£1,682 x 100) 6.1% of her net monthly income that she 
declared on her application. Including the existing unsecured borrowings which were 
showing on the credit checks, with the new loan repayment, this would be (£72+£103.13 = 
£175.13/£1,682 x 100) 10.4% of her declared net monthly income. 
Ive considered what Miss N has said about her being unemployed at the time of the loan 
application. But she had told Tesco she had been self-employed for two years and four 
months on her application and Im not persuaded that Tesco should have had any reason to 
doubt the information that the application showed, when Miss Ns credit file was showing all 
of her mortgage and unsecured payments were made on time and no adverse credit 
information was showing. 
So Im not persuaded it wouldve been proportionate for Tesco to verify her income here. 
And they are not required to obtain evidence of earnings for every application which is made 
to them. So I cant say theyve done anything wrong here as the checks they completed 
were proportionate to the credit given based on the application information and what the 
credit checks showed. 
Miss N has detailed that she was suffering from mental health problems at the time of the 
application. And Im sorry to hear this. I asked Tesco if Miss N had made them aware of this 
at or around the time of her application. Tesco confirmed that she hadnt made them aware 
of this, and the first time Miss N contacted them was May 2018. So I cant say Tesco should 
have been reasonably aware of this at the time. 
Im sorry to hear of Miss Ns financial difficulties, but in order to uphold this complaint I would
need to see that Tesco irresponsibly lent to her. But based on the reasons Ive already 
given, Im persuaded that the checks Tesco completed prior to granting credit were 
proportionate. So, it follows I dont require Tesco to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman