DRN-4065207
The complaint
Mr Y, through his representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Everyday Lending approved one loan for Mr Y on 9 September 2019 for £5,000 repayable
over 24 months at £321.48 a month.
Mr Y complained in October 2022 and received Everyday Lendings final response letter
(FRL) dated 22 November 2022. That FRL gave details of the information Mr Y had told it
when he had applied combined with the credit file information it knew about Mr Y. It said it 
did not uphold his complaint.
Everyday Lending indicated that as at that date Mr Y had repaid around £7,133 and 
£7,715.52 was due overall on the loan. I think that by now  March 2023  Mr Y may have 
paid this loan off. Our adjudicator has indicated that the account is now settled.
After Mr Ys representative had referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service,
one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Everyday Lending ought not
to have lent to Mr Y.
Everyday Lending replied in some detail and briefly its points were:
Before it lent to Mr Y he was paying around £905 per month to other creditors 
whereas it said that after the loan to him he was paying around £629
The purpose of the loan was debt consolidation plus home improvements
Mr Y had two credit cards with small balances - £200 and £501
It was aware of his hire purchase (HP) debt and his guarantor loan
The supporting bank account statements showed a well-run account
The two defaults it knew about were about 5 years old and not a concern to it
He was employed in a steady job with a steady income and had no dependents
His disposable income would have been £244.49 and it considered that to have been
ample and could have been used it to reduce the credit card debt over and above
paying the minimum repayments on those credit cards.
Our adjudicator replied and said that he had not altered his view. So, the unresolved 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
On 20 March 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I gave reasons why I did not 
consider that the complaint should be upheld. Some information from Mr Y was needed and 
that had not been forthcoming. 
I gave both parties time to reply. Neither have responded.
That provisional decision is duplicated in smaller type in the next section of this final 
decision. Ive done that so that the parties can read it all together. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the
questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of
this complaint are:
- Did Everyday Lending, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr Y would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr Y would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Ys ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr Y undue difficulty or
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr Y.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
my provisional decision  duplicated 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context
and what this all means for Mr Ys complaint.
This complaint turns on a calculation exercise to determine affordability. And to come to the
right outcome I have asked Everyday Lending and Mr Ys representative for additionalinformation.
I have seen that Everyday Lending obtained information about Mr Ys income, reviewed a
copy payslip, and looked at his credit file and bank account statements. It also used office of
National Statistics data (ONS) for his household expenses.
In the FRL Everyday Lending explained that its creditworthiness assessment had calculated
that Mr Ys approximate monthly expenditure prior to the consolidation of any debt was
£2,434.84 a month. Which was £700 rent, £904 for his existing creditor repayments and
£830 calculated living expenses. It explained that these expenses were before any
consolidation of debt.
Everyday Lending has sent to us the account notes which confirms that it did look at one of
Mr Ys bank statements in September 2019 before approving the loan.
So, Everyday Lending said he would have been left with £244.49 each month after the
consolidation of other debts and after it had removed the loan payment to the new Everyday
Lending loan. And that would have been on the income figure it had chosen to use which
was £2,725 a month. I address use of that income figure later in the provisional decision.
Having reviewed all the information, including the credit search results and figures I have,
my provisional decision is I am planning not to uphold Mr Ys complaint and I explain here.
Income
In relation to his income, Mr Y had told Everyday Lending that he earned £515 each week
which translates into around £2,232 a month. It looked at a payslip (a copy of which I have
seen) for August 2019 but that was a high net salary that month (around £3,670) as it had a
lot of overtime on it plus some backpay credited to him.
The new information I have asked Everyday Lending to check for me was as to how it got to
use the income figure of £2,725 (after tax and deductions) for Mr Y. Quite rightly it did not
use the net salary in that August 2019 payslip as that included a lot of back pay and
overtime.
So, it has explained to our adjudicator on the telephone (and I have listened to that call) that
it used the year to date figure (YTD) and as it was August  five months into the tax year 
it removed the tax, national insurance and other deductions from it and divided it to account
for it being five months into that tax year. That calculation came to be £2,725 as a net
monthly figure. Everyday Lending said that it wanted to use the most conservative figure.
However, that payslip revealed his basic gross pay which was £25,459 a year which would
translate into around £2,121 before tax and pension and NI deductions. And that is a closer
figure to that declared by Mr Y - £515 a week  and so Ive asked myself which figure ought
to have been used by Everyday Lending.
To assist me I have reviewed the FCAs specialist Sourcebook  CONC. I am familiar with
those provisions and I have chosen to focus on these rules to demonstrate my concerns.
CONC 5.2A.15 R (November 2018 updated version applicable to Mr Ys application date)
(1) This rule applies unless:
(a) the firm can demonstrate that it is obvious in the circumstances of the
particular case that the customer is able to make repayments in accordance
with CONC 5.2A.12R, so as to make the actions described in (2) to (4)
disproportionate; or
(b) the customer has indicated clearly an intention to repay wholly using
savings or other assets (see CONC 5.2A.13R).(2) The firm must take reasonable steps to determine the amount, or make a
reasonable estimate, of the customers current income.
(3) Where it is reasonably foreseeable that there is likely to be a reduction in the
customers income:
(a) during the term of the agreement; or
(b) in the case of an open-end agreement, during the likely duration of the
credit (see CONC 5.2A.26R),
which could have a material impact on affordability risk, the firm must take reasonable 
steps to estimate the amount of that reduction.
(4) The firm must take account of the customers income it has determined or
estimated in accordance with (2) and (3).
(5) The firm may only take into account an expected future increase in the customers
income where the firm reasonably believes on the basis of appropriate evidence that
the increase is likely to happen during the term of the agreement or, in the case of an
open-end agreement, during the likely duration of the credit.
Everyday Lending did reduce the net monthly income figure to £2,725 from £3,650 using the
August 2019 payslip, and I think that in line with sub paragraphs (4) and (5) above it had
enough evidence to show that Mr Y was able to, and did get paid, overtime. So, I consider
that to have been a reasonable set of assumptions and calculations to make and in line with
CONC.
Pension figure as additional income/income drop
The associated guide  CONC 5.2A.16  adds to certain other issues. Subparagraph (5)
says Income can include income other than salary and wages.
A further point in relation to Mr Ys income which I cannot ignore is that Mr Y had indicated
on the application that that periodically he drew money from his pension - £794.16. But Ive
seen no details about that or how often Mr Y did that.
The payslip revealed he was still paying into a pension and so that does not persuade me
that Mr Y was withdrawing from it. But it may have been a private pension. I have asked
Mr Y for more details about that £794 figure. And his representative has written back to say
that the information cannot be provided and we are to proceed to assess the complaint on
the information we have already.
But I cannot ignore this part of his application and it being such a precise sum leads me to
think that Mr Y did receive this amount. As Ive no information from Mr Y about this I am
issuing a provisional decision so that Mr Y can come back to me if he wants to clarify it.
I think its reasonable of me to think that periodic likely means quarterly.
My planned assumption is that Mr Y received almost £800 every quarter which would have
meant that he received an additional £3,200 a year. Which was about £266 a month. And
I have factored this additional income into my own assessment when considering the
complaint.
I have considered whether Mr Y was likely to experience a possible drop in income. Mr Y
was close to the state retirement age and this loan was due to last for two years. But using a
two year passage of time to pay this loan off then Mr Y would not have reached that state
retirement age at the end of the loan term. So, I do not think this would have been an issue
for Everyday Lending to have accounted for.
Credit situationEveryday Lending had reviewed his credit status. Mr Y had modest credit card balances and
his defaults from 5 years before likely would not have given Everyday Lending cause for
concern.
Mr Y had a large guarantor loan which was relatively new (£9,000 taken in December 2017)
and he had a long way to go before that was due to have been repaid. That was costing Mr Y just 
under £356 a month. He also had a HP account which was also relatively new as he
paid one off in August 2018 and started a fresh one straight away. Thats not unusual and
the monthly cost was not that high at around £153. And Everyday Lending was aware of
these.
The loan Everyday Lending factored into its calculations as the debt consolidation and
therefore would have reduced Mr Ys monthly outgoings was one that had a very small
balance on it and was due to have been repaid in one or two months anyway. Ive named it
F Ltd for the purposes of this decision.
Mr Y took the £400 loan with F Ltd in August 2019 for two months and the repayment was
due to be one more for around £275. Whereas this loan with Everyday Lending was due to
run for two years. So, its flawed logic that Mr Y would be relieved of the burden of one £275
repayment and replaced it with £321 for 24 months and was therefore better off in some
way.
However, the fact that the F Ltd loan was due to end in a couple of months likely would have
reduced Mr Ys outgoings and so the net increase with the Everyday Lending loan after that
would have been £46 each month.
Another point made by our adjudicator was that the figures Everyday Lending had used
only allows for minimum repayments to the revolving credit at 5% per month rather than
reducing the debt [Mr Y] was accruing.
I agree with that to an extent, but I have factored into the equation that Mr Y may have
chosen to use some of the £5,000 capital from Everyday Lending to pay off those other
debts too and so reduce or extinguish that other monthly repayment to those cards/revolving
credit accounts.
Everyday Lending did not satisfy itself as to what it was that Mr Y was going to do with the
money and/or pay off those other debts directly. Instead, Everyday Lending credited Mr Ys
account with £5,000 directly. This is not the best way, in my view. But I doubt it would have
made a difference as overall my provisional decision is that Mr Y could afford this loan.
And I have come to this provisional decision as I am satisfied that Everyday Lendings use of
£2,725 a month as income was a fair use of the information it had. And I think that on current
evidence that Mr Y did receive around £800 periodically as a pension as he had included
that in the application form and despite asking Mr Y for details he has not sent anything to
explain that. So, I have provisionally decided to include around £800 a quarter (so around
£266 a month) into Mr Ys income figures. And this provisional decision gives Mr Y time to
provide further information if he wants to clarify this.
Then looking at Mr Ys outgoings, and in the FRL Everyday Lending had explained that its
creditworthiness assessment had calculated that Mr Ys approximate monthly expenditure
prior to the consolidation of any debt was £2,434.84 a month. Ive rounded the figures but
they were around £700 rent, £904 for his existing creditor repayments and £830 calculated
living expenses.
So, the £2,725 income (using the YTD figures) plus the £266 a month which I think may
have come from a pension, less the £2,434 in outgoings leads me to think Mr Y could afford
the monthly repayments. And I accept that as Mr Y had said that the loan was for debt
consolidation and home improvements and so its feasible that Mr Y used that £5,000 to
reduce his overall debt as well.And even if I am incorrect on the pension income point, Mr Y had said he was going to use
the Everyday Lending money for loan consolidation and so assuming hed used it for the F Ltd 
loan, and some credit cards then I think Mr Y would have been left with his guarantor
loan - £356 a month, his HP agreement - £153 a month plus the new Everyday Lending loan
at £321 all of which add up to £830 a month.
And that £830 a month I think was affordable to Mr Y. I plan not to uphold the complaint.
This is the end of the duplicated provisional decision.
How did each party respond?
Despite our adjudicator reminding Everyday Lending and attempting to speak to Mr Ys 
representative, no responses have been received from either party. 
In the circumstances I consider it fair and reasonable to proceed to re-evaluate the complaint 
using the information I have and having given both parties time to respond to my provisional 
decision issued on 20 March 2023 with a  reply date of 3 April 2023. 
The provisional decision findings and reasoning are repeated here and form part of the final 
decision. For the same reasons I do not uphold Mr Ys complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman