DRN-2918517
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined his claim under his contents 
insurance for the loss of personal items.
What happened
Briefly, Mr K claimed under his contents insurance for the loss of jewellery. At the end of a 
night out, he and his wife took off their jewellery and put it into a handbag for the journey 
home. The following day, during a shopping trip, Mr K realised the bag with the jewellery still 
inside was missing. He wasnt sure whether it had been lost or stolen.
Mr K claimed under the Accidental Loss of Personal Items section of his contents insurance. 
Ageas asked Mr K to provide proof of ownership and other relevant information. He provided 
photos taken on the night out showing the jewellery being worn, and the receipt for the 
jewellery set.  However, Ageas declined his claim saying the circumstances werent credible; 
there was no evidence of the circumstances, and no proof of ownership.
Mr K complained to Ageas because he thought hed provided enough evidence to show he 
owned the jewellery set.
Our investigator initially recommended upholding Mr Ks complaint because she thought hed 
met his burden of proof. However, on receipt of additional evidence from Ageas, our 
investigator decided that Mr K hadnt properly demonstrated that hed suffered an insured 
loss. Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld.
Mr K didnt agree and, although he didnt provide any further evidence, he asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.   
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr K will still be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Both parties are aware of the details so, rather than repeat all the information here, Ill focus 
on giving the reasons for my decision.
Ageas declined Mr Ks claim because it thought his explanation of the loss wasnt credible. 
Its Mr Ks responsibility to show that an insured peril has occurred and, if Ageas declines the 
claim, its responsible for showing why under the terms of the policy. Ive looked at whether it 
was fair for Ageas to decline the claim for the reasons it gave.
Ownership
Ageas doesnt think Mr Ks explanation of the loss is credible. Ive looked at the account of 
events and I can see that Mr K explained on several occasions how he came to own the 
jewellery, but he gave different accounts. He said the jewellery was:
a wedding gift from parents;
a gift to his wife from her father;
bought for his wife on his behalf by his mother a couple of years earlier, and
a gift following the birth of his child.
Because Mr K gave different accounts of ownership, I dont think its unreasonable that 
Ageas declined the claim because of a lack of credibility. Id expect him to be able to explain 
consistently how he came to own the jewellery, even if he couldnt prove ownership. 
Moving on, Ive seen that Mr K provided several pieces of evidence to prove ownership. 
Photos from the night out before the loss show his wife wearing the jewellery set, so I see no 
reason to doubt that he owned the jewellery. Although Ageas pointed out that there was no 
proof of when the photos were taken, I dont think that matters here. Thats because other 
evidence Mr K provided contradicts or just doesnt support his overall claim.
Mr K said he sent the money to his mother abroad, who then bought the jewellery on his 
behalf for around £5,000. He hasnt been able to provide any evidence that it was declared 
on entry to the UK, and the receipt he asked his mother to send to him confuses matters 
further: the receipt doesnt describe the jewellery other than as an 18 carat gold jewellery 
set, weighing 135.2 grams, and the price, at over £11,000, is significantly different to Mr Ks 
declared purchase price.
Given the inconsistencies in value, and the inconsistencies in how Mr K came to own the 
jewellery, I can see why Ageas didnt accept Mr Ks evidence as proof of ownership. Its 
reasonable for Ageas to expect Mr K to provide a consistent account of ownership and 
documentary evidence to support that. He hasnt, which means Im satisfied that Ageas fairly 
declined the claim because Mr K didnt prove ownership.
Credibility of circumstances of loss
Ageas didnt think that Mr K had given a credible explanation of his loss. Whether or not the 
jewellery felt too heavy at the end of the night out and was placed in the bag is irrelevant. 
Thats because Mr Ks explanation of the loss, which happened the next day, doesnt 
support his claim. I note that:
Mr K was reluctant to report the matter to the police until asked to do so by Ageas; 
he didnt follow the police procedure fully;
he didnt give his details to the shopping centre or individual shops he visited in case 
the bag containing the jewellery was found;
theres no evidence that Mr K claimed for, or took any action in respect of the house 
keys and car keys which were also in the bag, and
he complained about having to provide evidence of his loss.
Given that Mr K said the jewellery was also of sentimental value, when considered with the 
above points I can see why Ageas didnt find his report credible. Id expect to see evidence 
of the overall loss, but the inconsistencies bring the circumstances into question. As I 
mentioned earlier, its Mr Ks responsibility to prove his loss, but I cant see that he has done 
so, here. Therefore, Im satisfied that Ageas declined his claim fairly for the reasons it gave. 
In summary, Mr Ks testimony changed on several occasions; he delayed reporting the loss 
to the police, he didnt follow the full loss reporting process; the receipt doesnt clearly 
identify the jewellery in the photos, and the value is different to the claim. Based on this, I think its reasonable that Ageas declined the claim due to lack of credibility and proof of 
ownership. I wont be requiring Ageas to settle the claim.
I must be clear that my decision doesnt mean Mr K cant make a successful claim. If hes 
able to provide evidence to satisfy Ageas that he has a valid claim, then Id expect it to 
reconsider his claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman