DRN-3702913
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Santander UK Plc failed to secure her account which allowed several 
unauthorised transactions to be made from it.
What happened
Mrs K became aware that several large transactions had been made from her account  
without her knowledge. Once Santander looked into what had happened, they found that an 
unidentified third party had been able to update details about the account, including the 
phone number attached to it. Theyd also been able to pass security which allowed these 
disputed transactions to be sent from the account.
Mrs K also received suspicious calls from persons pretending to be from Santander. Mrs K 
suffered the loss of a large amount of her funds from different accounts which Santander 
refunded.
Mrs K was unhappy with how her account had been allowed to be changed and the disputed 
transactions made without them being stopped and complained to Santander about it. Mrs K 
had also been admitted to hospital which she thinks was due to the stress of the situation. 
Santander examined what had happened and wrote to Mrs K about it. They accepted that 
her account had been compromised but didnt believe theyd made any errors because 
whoever called them had sufficient details about the account and Mrs K to pass security.
Mrs K remained unhappy with how Santander had handled her issue and brought her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. Mrs Ks 
complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who didnt uphold her complaint. 
Mrs K disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of her 
complaint which has now been passed to me for a decision.
Mrs K commented that she was never provided with an explanation of how this was allowed 
to happen and wanted more detail about the issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its apparent that Mrs Ks accounts were subject to a determined and sophisticated 
undertaking to steal her funds. Santander accepted that the transactions werent made by 
Mrs K and refunded them and any charges associated with them. This was an appropriate 
response from Santander as the disputed transactions werent authorised by Mrs K.
Mrs Ks main complaint is about how this was allowed to happen and looking at Santanders 
records, its evident that at certain stages throughout this incident, that one time passcodes 
were sent to Mrs Ks registered phone which allowed other parts of the account to be 
changed  for example the phone number to be updated. 
It's a general security feature of many banks including Santander to send a code to the 
registered phone before allowing certain processes or transactions to be changed  which is 
what happened here. Its not clear to me how the scammers were able to acquire the code 
from Mrs Ks phone, but as Santander received a response from it, this allowed other 
transactions and changes to be made.
The scammers also knew a lot about Mrs K and her account which together with changing 
the device allowed them to reset the security and from then on to appear to Santander that 
they were the account holder  Mrs K. This then allowed them to send funds from the 
account and respond to any further security steps imposed by Santander. 
I accept that this would have been an unsettling time for Mrs K because she didnt know the 
extent to which her private information had been compromised, but I think its worth noting 
that the losses werent caused by Santander  unscrupulous scammers were responsible. 
I cant know how these scammers obtained Mrs Ks information, but as they were able to 
answer various security questions about her and the account together with resetting devices 
and changing the phone number, I dont think I can hold Santander at fault for not stopping 
these payments. 
I was sorry to hear that Mrs K was hospitalised because of this incident, but as it was caused 
by scammers, I cant hold Santander responsible for the impact it had on her. Santanders 
actions to refund the money ensured that Mrs K was put back in the same position she was 
before this happened, although I accept she had to go through considerable stress and 
worry at the time.
If Mrs K hasnt already done so, she may wish to look into a protective registration with 
CIFAS. This may be suitable to assist her as a victim of an identity crime.
https://www.cifas.org.uk/pr will give her additional information about this service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman