DRN-2619269
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that AWP P&C SA declined their claim against their travel insurance 
policy following curtailment of their trip. Reference to AWP includes reference to its agents.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had an annual travel insurance policy with AWP. In May 2019, they 
booked a trip with intended departure and return dates of 28 January 2020 and              
16 February 2020 respectively. On 8 February 2020, the cruise provider told                  
Mr and Mrs S that, due to Covid-19, the cruise would end on 10 February 2020. I 
understand that Mr and Mrs S flew back to the UK on 11 February 2020. 
The travel provider gave Mr and Mrs S a refund for the cruise and credit for a future 
cruise. Mr and Mrs S dont claim for return flight costs.      
Mr and Mrs S made a claim against their policy in relation to the curtailment of their trip. 
They claimed £1,774.50, which they said was the pro-rata cost of the five nights trip they 
lost. AWP declined the claim. It said that the curtailment and travel disruption provisions 
in the policy dont cover what happened here and that, in any event, the travel provider 
had provided a full refund, so theres no loss. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with AWPs interpretation of the policy provisions and 
marketing information. They say that theres sufficient ambiguity in the policy to justify 
their claim being met. They want AWP to settle their claim and to change the wording in 
the policy.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that AWP had 
acted unfairly in declining Mr and Mrs S claim. The investigator said that theyd received 
a refund of the cruise costs, so they hadnt suffered a loss. He thought that Mr and Mrs S 
were claiming for loss of enjoyment of the cruise, which isnt covered under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator. Mr S said that their claim is based on the 
wording of the policy document and isnt about fairness. He said that the policy didnt 
exclude claims where a third party has already provided compensation. Mr S said that 
the policy should be clear and unambiguous. 
The investigator considered what Mr S said but didnt change his view. There was further 
correspondence, which I wont set out here. Mr and Mrs S asked that an ombudsman 
consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt the regulator, so we cant direct an insurer in relation to the drafting of the 
terms and conditions of its policies. But I can consider whether AWP acted unfairly in 
declining Mr and Mrs S claim. The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AWP has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs S complaint because I dont think that AWP treated them  
unfairly. I say that because:
Its the responsibility of the policyholders to show that theres a loss arising out of an 
insured peril. Theres been no loss here, as the cruise provider refunded the cost of 
the cruise. 
I believe whats been referred to before by the investigator is the principle of 
indemnity. But I dont need to consider that further, as Mr and Mrs S havent 
established a loss which could lead to a valid claim. 
The events which led to Mr and Mrs S making a claim arose in February 2020. If 
there was the basis of a valid claim, the relevant policy is the one in force April 2019 
to April 2020. But an analysis of the curtailment provisions in the policy wouldnt alter 
the outcome here, as Mr and Mrs S havent suffered a loss. 
I appreciate the this was not the trip that Mr and Mrs S planned and they were no 
doubt disappointed that it was curtailed, but their policy doesnt cover loss of their 
holiday or loss of enjoyment. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman