DRN-3012483
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma Loans, hasnt 
correctly paid the compensation that was agreed in an earlier complaint. 
Mr Q says that this has led to his credit report incorrectly showing that he still owes money 
on one of his loans. And a default has also been incorrectly added to his credit file for this 
loan.  
What happened
Mr Q has been provided with eight loans from Satsuma. He has made a complaint that these 
loans were lent irresponsibly to him. This complaint has been considered as a separate 
issue by this Service and Satsuma. It was upheld by one of our adjudicators and Satsuma 
agreed to pay compensation. Mr Q accepted this compensation as a reasonable way to 
resolve his complaint. 
Our adjudicator recommended, and Satsuma agreed to pay compensation, in respect of 
loans 4, 5, 7 and 8. She didnt think that compensation should be paid in respect of loans 1 
to 3 and loan 6. I wont revisit this aspect of Mr Qs complaint as its reasonable to say it was 
resolved earlier. Mr Qs new complaint is about the outstanding amounts, and information on 
his credit report, in respect of loan 6 only. 
Loan 6 was started in July 2017. Mr Q was unable to make the contractual repayments and 
he fell into arrears on this loan. A notice of default letter was sent to Mr Q on 2 July 2018. Mr 
Q and Satsuma attempted to arrange a repayment plan for this loan, however, as far as I 
can see, Mr Q was also unable to repay the agreed amounts due through his repayment 
plan. This loan was defaulted on 22 August 2018. I understand Mr Q still owes around £394. 
Information on the arrears and default have been reported to the credit reference agencies 
that Satsuma reports to.
Satsuma has looked at Mr Qs second complaint. It says it has adhered to the agreed 
compensation. As loan 6 was not included in this it has not reduced the amount he owes to 
this loan or amended the information it has reported to the credit reference agencies. The 
earlier compensation wasnt enough to reduce the amount Mr Q owed on loan 6.
It did say that it should have responded to some of Mr Qs emails quicker than it did. 
Because of this it reduced the outstanding balance of loan 6 by £50. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this second complaint. He said that Satsuma had implemented 
the agreed compensation for all of the loans that were upheld. And as an outstanding 
balance remained on loan 6 it was reasonable for Satsuma to try and recover these 
amounts. And it was also reasonable to report the loan arrears and the default to the credit 
reference agencies. 
Mr Q didnt agree with this. He thought that the loan should be written off due to Satsumas 
errors. As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
As Ive said above Mr Qs mis selling complaint has been considered by both Satsuma and 
this Service. As far as I can see the agreed compensation has been calculated and paid to 
Mr Q. So, Satsuma hasnt acted incorrectly in this respect. As loan 6 was not upheld 
Satsuma didnt need to make an adjustment to the credit file. 
This compensation left an outstanding balance on loan 6. The evidence I have seen shows 
that Mr Q has been unable to repay this lending. This has been reported to the credit 
reference agencies, and a default has been recorded against this loan. 
Unless a correction is needed (for example due to the outcome of a mis-selling complaint), 
then Satsuma has to accurately report how a loan has been repaid. The evidence I have, 
indicates to me that Satsuma has done this, and I also dont think it has acted incorrectly in 
doing so. 
As has been established Satsuma could have responded in a timelier manner to one of 
Mr Qs emails. But I think the loan balance reduction it has paid is reasonable compensation 
for this. I dont think Satsuma should do anything more. 
Overall, Im not upholding Mr Qs new complaint. 
I can see Mr Q feels very strongly about the issues he has raised. And Im sure my decision 
will not be what he wants to hear. But I hope it doesnt cause him any distress and that he 
finds my explanation helpful. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Qs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman