DRN-3512498
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Handelsbanken plc dealt with his mortgage. 
What happened
Mr M took out a residential mortgage with Handelsbanken in 2013, jointly with his ex-wife 
(who Ill refer to as Mrs M). They separated and Mr M lives overseas. 
Mr M says the mortgage was amended or replaced without his consent. The mortgage was 
repaid in August 2020. Mr M says he knew nothing about the sale of the property until 
August 2020. He says he didnt receive his share of the sales proceeds. 
Mr M says Handelsbanken:
didnt answers his questions or provide information about the account, blocked his online 
access, only communicated with Mrs M, and didnt tell him what was happening with the 
properties. This was despite him updating his identity and contact information in July 
2019, and resulted in the property being sold without his knowledge.
treated him unfairly, allowed changes to the mortgage without his consent and 
encouraged the sale of the property at an undervalue to get the mortgage off its books. 
He said Handelsbanken should have contacted him about repayment of the mortgage.
failed to comply with banking regulations, moved the goal posts on its security 
requirements, and divulged information to third parties.
Our investigator said Handelsbanken wasnt responsible for the sale of the property, which 
was arranged by Mrs M, or for the distribution of the sales proceeds. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said Handelsbanken was actively involved in the sale and provided 
extracts from emails which he said supported this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. I dont have to respond  or require 
Handelsbanken to respond  to each point made by Mr M. I should also say that where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Communication with Mr M: Handelsbankens identity verification process
Mr M says the crux of his complaint is that Handelsbanken chose not to communicate with 
him and this led to the properties being sold without his knowledge. 
Handelsbanken says it sent statements and other communications to Mr and Mrs M at their 
address (the security property) from the start of the mortgage. It said it didnt have contact 
details for Mr M between 2016 and 2019. 
Mr Ms solicitors contacted Handelsbanken in mid-2019, with a mandate from Mr M. 
Handelsbanken confirmed it would correspond through Mr Ms solicitors, and sent requested 
information to them as well as its final response to a complaint made by Mr M at that time. 
The final response said that despite requests, Mr M hadnt provided full contact details.  
In October 2019 Mr M emailed Handelsbanken, saying his solicitor had withdrawn from the 
process. He wanted information about the mortgage and property and digital access to the 
account. Handelsbanken says it followed its process to identify Mr M and update his email 
address in its records. This required Mr M to visit a branch with identity documents and 
provide written instructions to update his contact details. Mr M was overseas and posted 
certified copies of documents, which Handelsbanken received in December 2019.
This didnt meet Handelsbankens verification criteria. It emailed Mr M to arrange a video call 
for mid-December 2019. Mr M said hed visited a branch while in the UK with his identity 
documents, and initially declined the video call, saying its wasnt secure. A video call was 
completed in late January 2020. Handelsbanken said Mr M didnt provide his address or 
phone number and asked that all communication was by email.
I dont think Handelsbanken treated Mr M unfairly, moved the goalposts or caused 
difficulties to prevent him accessing information about his account. When Mr M got in touch 
after several years, Handelsbanken agreed to correspond with his solicitors. When Mr M 
wanted to correspond directly and access accounts online I think it was fair and reasonable 
for Handelsbanken to first complete its verification process. As Mr M was overseas, 
Handelsbanken took internal advice about alternatives to its usual process. I dont think 
Handelsbanken caused unreasonable delays. Ultimately, Handelsbanken did find a way to 
verify Mr Ms identity and send him the information he requested. 
Did the lack of communication between Handelsbanken and Mr M cause the properties to be 
sold without his knowledge?
Handelsbanken says Mrs M told it the property was being marketed for sale from late 2016. 
Mr M says the property was sold in mid-2020 at an undervalue, because Handelsbanken 
used pressure to force the sale. At this point the property had been on the market for more 
than three years. I think this is a reasonable amount of time to find a buyer. I dont think I can 
fairly find the property was sold for less than it should have been due to pressure by 
Handelsbanken.
Mr M says Handelsbanken revalued the property at an undervalue. Handelsbanken says the 
properties were valued in December 2019 by a qualified surveyor to help it assess its loan to 
value position. It says this wasnt related to the sale of the property. I cant see that the 
valuation could have caused the property to be sold for less than it should have been, 
especially given the time it was marketed for. 
Handelsbanken says it told Mr M it was looking for the mortgage to be repaid during the 
video call in January 2020. I think its likely that it did. Handelsbanken says Mr M said hed 
like to keep the property for holiday letting, but couldnt make a repayment proposal until he 
had information about the mortgage.
Following the call, Handelsbanken sent an email to Mr M with information about the 
mortgage, including about contract variations, payment deferrals, interest rates, and 
statements for 2017 and 2019. It sent a copy letter with its conditions for the property being let. It asked Mr M for his repayment proposals but says it didnt receive a response. Mr M 
said he received an email on 29 January 2020 which included a request for his repayment 
proposals. I havent seen evidence that Mr M provided repayment proposals to 
Handelsbanken.
Mr M provided correspondence he says shows Handelsbanken wanted the property to be 
sold. I dont find it surprising there was communication between Mrs M and Handelsbanken 
about the mortgage. Mrs M was managing the property and mortgage account. Mr and 
Mrs M hadnt maintained the payments they agreed to make when they took out the 
mortgage. Handelsbanken had offered forbearance measures for several years. It told Mr M 
in January 2020 that it was looking for the mortgage to be repaid and asked for his 
proposals. Mr M didnt make any repayment proposals. Mrs M arranged for the mortgage to 
be repaid through the sale of the property. 
I think it was fair for Handelsbanken to provide a redemption certificate when requested, and 
discharge the security when it received the redemption funds. What happened to any net 
proceeds from the sale isnt Handelsbankens responsibility.
Other issues
Handelsbanken said it agreed forbearance measures (such as a switch to interest only 
payments) and that the property could be used for holiday lets. Handelsbanken said it didnt 
rely on the power of attorney when offering forbearance measures. It said it was reasonable 
to offer this support and while ideally both account holders would agree changes, Mr M 
wasnt contactable and wasnt making mortgage payments. I think, in the circumstances, it 
was fair for Handelsbanken to offer these forbearance measures.
Mr M says Handelsbanken discriminated against him, by only dealing with Mrs M. He says it 
shared his correspondence with Mrs M, during their divorce proceedings. Handelsbanken 
told Mr M that after 29 January 2020 it would share communications with both parties to 
ensure transparency. 
I should say that I dont think that would be right in all circumstances. While a joint account 
holder is entitled to information about the account, this doesnt mean theyre entitled to 
information about the other joint account holder or their personal or financial circumstances. 
I dont think Handelsbanken treated Mr M unfairly by dealing with Mrs M. Its likely it had 
more communication with Mrs M simply because it was Mrs M that was dealing with the 
account and making payments, and for the same reason its more likely her correspondence 
included information which Handelsbanken couldnt fairly share with Mr M. I havent seen 
evidence that Handelsbanken shared Mr Ms correspondence inappropriately.
Overall, I dont think Handelsbanken treated Mr M unfairly. Despite difficulties, it completed a 
verification process and provided information to him about the mortgage. It offered 
forbearance measures to avoid mortgage arrears. And it told Mr M it was looking for the 
mortgage to be repaid and invited him to make proposals. It was about seven months later 
that the property was sold, so I think Mr M had a fair opportunity to make repayment 
proposals if he wanted to do so.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman