DRN-3836367
The complaint
Mr D complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (SL) provided him with mis-leading 
information about his pension options. He also complains that SL took pension contributions 
from him and continued to provide him with information and retirement projections for his 
personal pension, despite knowing he lived overseas, which meant limitations around 
drawing his benefits existed. 
What happened
Mr D has had a personal pension with SL since 1990. I understand that the pension was set 
up after advice from Mr Ds financial adviser at the time. Mr D currently lives overseas. And I 
understand it isnt his intention to permanently move back to the UK.
SL said that Mr D called it on several occasions between September and November 2021 to 
ask about flexibly accessing the benefits in his pension. It said it had explained to Mr D that 
as he wasnt a UK resident it couldnt offer him flexi access drawdown. It said Mr D then 
asked what would make him a UK resident, so he could be eligible for drawdown. 
SL said it wrote to Mr D on 8 September 2021 explaining what documentary evidence it 
would need to see if he became resident in the UK.
SL said it received a Letter of Authority and a request for plan information on 16 September 
2021. It said it sent a full plan information pack on 29 September 2021.
SL said it received a transfer request from a provider Ill refer to as provider A on 13 January 
2022. This requested a transfer to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). SL said it 
emailed provider A on 18 January 2022 to ask it for further documents and additional 
information about the pension scheme Mr D wanted to transfer to, so it could fully consider 
the transfer request. It said it also asked for another completed document to be provided 
again, as the one it had already received was an out-of-date version. SL said it received all 
additional documents on 24 February 2022. 
SL said its due diligence team then considered the transfer. It said that team emailed Mr D 
on 7 March 2022 to ask him to arrange an appointment for a call which was a standard part 
of the due diligence process. But that before Mr D had been able to arrange that call, SL 
said it changed its stance on transfers to provider A, after an announcement from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) that provider A no longer had the relevant permissions to 
accept new pensions business. SL said that it wrote to Mr D on 10 March 2022 to confirm its 
change of position and to tell him that it wouldnt process his transfer request.
Mr D said that his SL online account showed projections of the pension he could receive at 
retirement. But as these werent available to him as a non-UK resident, he felt the 
information provided online was misleading. He also felt that SL had known he was non-
resident in the UK but had continued to take his pension contributions. He was unhappy it 
wouldnt allow him to move to drawdown because he wasnt a UK resident. So he 
complained to SL. 
SLs complaint system notes from 16 June 2022 said that Mr D had clarified that he wasnt 
complaining about its decision to refuse his transfer to provider A, which he was now happy 
about. 
SL issued its final response to the complaint on 5 July 2022. It didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. It said Mr Ds personal pension was one of its older style products, which 
was never designed to allow flexible access. And that if Mr D wanted to gain flexible access 
to his pension, hed have to move to one of SLs newer products. It said that to do this, Mr D 
would need to be a UK resident. 
SL provided Mr D with government information about UK residence. And said that if he could 
meet the UK residency status requirements hed be able to apply for one of its newer 
products and gain flexible access to his pension, subject to also satisfying UK Money 
Laundering requirements. It said that if he couldnt meet the UK residency status 
requirements, but still wanted to access his funds, it could only offer him full encashment of 
his pension. It said this would require some tax to be paid. 
SL said that despite the fact that it had decided not to allow Mr Ds pension to be transferred 
to provider A, he could still ask for his pension to be transferred to another provider in the UK 
or overseas. 
SL said that the information it provided online and within its annual statements was designed 
to provide customers with useful information. But said that it also met the requirements set 
out by its regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. It said that balancing these 
requirements meant that some of the information it showed wouldnt be as relevant to some 
customers as it would be to others. But it didnt agree that made the information misleading. 
It said it wasnt possible to tailor information to each customers individual circumstances. 
And noted that such circumstances changed over time. So it felt it was fair and reasonable 
for it to display the same information to all customers. 
Mr D was unhappy with SLs response.  He felt that as SL had known for around ten years 
that it wouldnt be able to provide him with a pension, given where he lived, it shouldnt have 
continued to provide projections showing the retirement pension hed likely receive. Nor 
should it have continued to take his pension contributions by direct debit. He said it was only 
when he tried to claim his pension that SL told him it couldnt provide him with one. He felt 
his pension had been mis-sold. And brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt consider that SL had done anything wrong. So he didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. He said that SL, as the product provider, wasnt responsible for 
the sale. And that if Mr D felt that the pension wasnt suitable for his circumstances at the 
time of the sale, he should take that up with his adviser. 
Our investigator felt that it was reasonable for SL to state that it wasnt possible to tailor all 
information  which met the relevant regulatory requirements - to fit each customers 
individual circumstances. Although he agreed that some of the information SL provided 
wouldnt be as relevant to some customers as it would be to others, he didnt consider that 
meant it was misleading. He also said that as the product provider, it wasnt SLs 
responsibility to ensure the ongoing suitability of a product for a consumer. 
Mr D didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points: 
- The fact that SL had chosen to provide him with misleading information impacted the 
decision-making process about whether his pension remained suitable for him. So SL 
werent just the product provider. - The reality for him is that SL would provide no pension options, just cash withdrawal 
or transfer options. So the projections itd provided him were false. SL knew where 
he lived, and at no time told him his retirement options would be limited. 
- Mr D felt that SL had breached the following FCA principle: A firm must pay due 
regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in 
a way, which is clear, fair, and not misleading. He felt that in issuing information to 
him that SL had known to be false, it had clearly breached this obligation.
Our investigator considered the additional points Mr D had raised, but still felt that SL had 
followed its regulators rules and guidelines on providing information and projections. As 
such, he didnt consider itd done anything wrong. 
Mr D didnt agree with our investigator. He still felt the information SL had provided him with 
was deliberately misleading, as itd known that the information didnt apply to him. Mr D 
didnt think our investigator had correctly interpreted the FSA operating principles that SL are 
subject to.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr 
D. Ill explain my reasons for it. 
Mr D considers that SL has failed to meet its responsibilities under the FCAs principles for 
the fair treatment of customers. Under these principles, providers have various 
responsibilities that have an impact on customers. 
The principles apply to all authorised firms. Mr D has said that SL has failed to meet 
Principle 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
The FCA considers that what a firm has to do to meet the requirements of a principle will 
depend on the circumstances. And that the requirements of the principles should be 
determined in a way that is proportionate. 
Ive considered Mr Ds points by looking at the detail of the FCAs The Responsibilities of 
Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD).
Section 1.19 which covers the situation when providing information to customers, states:
In particular, a firm: 
(1) should pay regard to its target market, including its likely level of financial capability; 
(2) should take account of what information the customer needs to understand the product or 
service, its purpose and the risks, and communicate information in a way that is clear, fair 
and not misleading (Note (12)); 
(3) should have in place systems and controls to manage effectively the risks posed by 
providing information to customers.And Section 1.22, covering the area of post-sale responsibility, states:
In particular, a firm: 
(1) in supplying information direct to the customer, must ensure that the information is 
communicated in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading (Note (14)); 
(2) should periodically review products whose performance may vary materially to check 
whether the product is continuing to meet the general needs of the target audience that it 
was designed for, 
SL said that the information it provides to its customers meets the requirements set out by 
the FCA. And that it is aimed predominantly at its UK customers, as these form the majority 
of its customer base. 
SL said that customers who live abroad at any one point in time might not do so when they 
decide to take their benefits, so it wouldnt be fair to those customers not to show them all 
the information that it provides for customers who are currently UK based. It also said it had 
told Mr D that it had a regulatory responsibility to show the projections and it wasnt possible 
to remove these because he currently lives abroad. 
SL also provided screen shots of the projected pension information Mr D had received. 
These show that the projections were based on several assumptions. The information said: 
This is what you might get,; You can usually take ; and The figures you see are 
estimates and are not guaranteed. Im satisfied that the projections were clearly presented 
as estimates that werent guaranteed. And that they showed potential benefits, rather than 
definitive ones. 
The Important information section of the projections also noted: Your own circumstances  
including where you live in the UK  also have an impact on tax treatment. I consider that 
this showed that the information was relevant to people who lived in the UK.
I acknowledge that Mr D still considers that the information SL provided him with was 
deliberately misleading. But I dont agree. I say this because I consider that the projections 
were clear that they were estimates of what a consumer might get. They werent guarantees 
that Mr D should rely on. Im also of the view that the projections wouldve been helpful to 
the majority of SLs customers. I say this because Im satisfied that SLs target market is the 
UK. I also consider that they could still be helpful to Mr D. I say this because even though 
theres no way for him to take a pension through SL while hes still resident overseas, he can 
transfer his pension to another provider and take a pension with them. 
I also say this because although Mr D considers that SL shouldve acted on its knowledge 
that he currently lived overseas, it had no way of knowing that he had no plans to ever 
become a UK resident again. So in my view, it acted fairly and reasonably when it continued 
to provide the retirement projections to Mr D. It didnt know he wouldnt find them useful. And 
in any event, Im satisfied that the requirements of the principles are intended to be 
determined in a way that is proportionate. I dont consider it would be proportionate to ask 
SL, or any other provider, to continually ask its customers whether they expected to be UK 
residents at the time of they intended to access their retirement benefits, and to amend its 
projections based on the answers.
Im also not aware that the FCA has any concerns over the information SL provides in its 
statements, online accounts or illustrations in a standard format.
Mr D said that the fact that SL had chosen to provide him with misleading information had impacted his decision-making process about whether his pension remained suitable for him. 
But, as Im satisfied that the information SL provided Mr D wasnt deliberately misleading, I 
dont uphold this part of his complaint.
I also acknowledge that for Mr D, SL can only provide a cash withdrawal or a transfer option. 
But that doesnt mean that I agree that the projections SL provided for him were false. I say 
this because not only did SL have no way of knowing that Mr D had no plans to become a 
UK resident again until he told it, but it also felt that the best way of treating its customers 
fairly was to provide the same projection information  heavily caveated  as it provided for 
all of its UK-based customers. I cant reasonably say that SL acted incorrectly here.
I also considered Mr Ds point that SL shouldnt have continued to take his pension 
contributions by direct debit given where he lived. I havent seen any evidence that SL 
advised Mr D to pay contributions. Nor have I seen any evidence that Mr D asked for the 
contributions to stop. As I noted earlier, I wouldnt expect SL to take any action simply 
because a customer currently didnt live in the UK. Many of SLs customers will move 
overseas and then return before retirement. And although SL will have customers, like Mr D, 
who wont become UK residents again, its not SLs responsibility to monitor the ongoing 
suitability of a customers pension. Instead, that responsibility lies with the customer and 
their adviser, if they have one. 
From what Ive seen, I dont think SL has done anything wrong, or treated Mr D unfairly. So I 
dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman