DRN-3060546
The complaint
Mr D complained about how his home emergency policy was set-up for him by BIG 
Warranties Ltd (BIG) who were acting as a broker. Mr D was unhappy with the terms and 
conditions that were applied to the policy, which subsequently led to his claims being 
declined by his insurer.
What happened
BIG called Mr D and explained that it wouldnt be offering his current home emergency policy 
again on his renewal date. BIG explained that Mr D would be offered a new policy 
underwritten by a different insurer with new terms and conditions.
As Mr Ds renewal was upcoming, BIG offered Mr D the opportunity to move to the new 
policy before the renewal date and also benefit from paying lower premiums. Mr D accepted 
the new policy. 
Mr D claimed on his new policy three times, but each time his claim was declined and he 
ended up paying for the repairs himself. Mr D said BIG have issued a policy with one set of 
terms and conditions, disabled the link, unilaterally set new terms and conditions without 
seeking my agreement or even advising me. The changes restrict cover and have left me 
fighting and unable to make claims for the purpose the policy was set up. 
BIG said its IT department checked which terms and conditions were sent to Mr D when the 
policy was set up in October 2019. BIG said these are the same terms and conditions that 
you have now but in a different view format. The link in the original email that you were sent 
was disabled due to the view format of the terms and conditions changing. 
BIG said As your policy was set up on 5th October 2019, your policy was always covered by 
the new terms and conditions. I can also see that you did have a previous policy with our 
sister companywhich was set up on 5th April 2018. This policy was under the previous 
terms and conditions, parts of which you have quoted in your emails, and if had been 
continued, would have moved to the new terms and conditions on 5th April 2020 when the 
renewal was due. However, when the policy was cancelled and transferred to a BIG policy 
on 7th October 2019, you were transferred immediately to the new terms and conditions, 
which were sent to you by email on 7th October 2019.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said there was no evidence 
provided that BIG had sent Mr D incorrect terms and conditions when it renewed his policy in 
October 2019. Mr D disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I consider the complaint, I want to clarify that this decision will only look at the actions 
of BIG who sold and administered the policy. I wont be considering whether the claims Mr D 
made were unfairly declined, as these actions were carried out by another party (the 
insurer).
Mr D said when this new policy was set-up he was sent a link to old terms and conditions 
(consistent with his previous policy). Mr D thought these terms and conditions would cover 
him for his emergency claims, so when his claims were declined by his insurer he thought it 
was unfair. His insurer declined the claims as it was applying a new set of terms and 
conditions. He thinks BIG hasnt issued the correct terms and conditions to him when his 
policy was sold, so he wants them to refund his premiums and to compensate him for his 
declined claims.
A new policy was set-up for Mr D in October 2019 following a telephone call between BIG 
and Mr D. I have listened to the call to understand better what product was sold to Mr D.
When BIG called Mr D it explained that its customers wouldnt be able to continue their 
current policies beyond their current term. BIG had decided to sell a different policy to 
customers which was underwritten by a different insurer. BIG explained that it thought the 
new policy was better. It said the main difference was that the new policy would provide a 
higher claims limit and the premiums would be cheaper by around 40%. It was also 
explained to Mr D that he could remain on his current policy for the remainder of his current 
term.
Mr D indicated he wished to move to the new policy and benefit from the lower premiums. 
BIG summarised at a high level the areas of cover and explained it would send Mr D the 
detailed policy terms and conditions by email. BIG explained to Mr D that he had a 14 day 
cooling off period to cancel the new policy if he was unhappy with any of the new terms. Mr 
D agreed to the new policy verbally and provided a new direct debit mandate for the new 
policy.
From listening to the call, its clear that Mr D was given the option of remaining on his current 
policy until the end of its term or switch to the new cheaper policy which had a higher claim 
limit. Mr D chose to move to the new policy and it was made clear on the call the new policy 
would have new terms and conditions. BIG explained to Mr D that the new terms and 
conditions in full would be sent to him by email. Mr D didnt raise any concerns with these 
new terms and conditions within the 14 day cooling off period. 
I think BIG has followed a transparent and reasonable process in transferring Mr D to a new 
policy with new terms and condition and set out the choices available to him. So, I dont think 
its done anything wrong.
BIG also explained its old terms and conditions were available on its website via a link, as 
they still applied to customers whose policies had not yet transitioned to the new terms and 
conditions. BIG said its IT department confirmed it sent the new terms and conditions at the 
time the policy was sold. The link on the email Mr D received has since been disabled. BIG 
said it did this as it updated its terms and conditions to a newer picture format.   
Im not concerned by this as its not unusual for companies to update their documents from 
time to time. Additionally, BIG has searched its document library and provided the document 
that was disabled. It has sent our service a PDF copy of the terms and conditions that were 
sent to Mr D via (the now) disabled link. I have checked this document and it is consistent 
with the newer terms and conditions, the ones used by the insurer when declining Mr Ds 
claim. So, Im persuaded Mr D did receive the correct terms and conditions when he 
accepted his policy, so I dont think BIG has done anything wrong.I havent seen evidence to show the old terms and conditions were sent to Mr D in error. Mr 
D said he has quoted parts of these terms and conditions in his complaint, which he says 
provides evidence he was sent the wrong terms and conditions. However, he may have had 
access to these terms and conditions from his previous policy or the link that was available 
on the website for customers that hadnt transitioned yet to the new policy. BIG was also 
clear to Mr D when the policy was sold that it had new terms and conditions.
I know it will be disappointing to Mr D but I dont uphold this complaint. I think BIG has 
followed a transparent process in transitioning Mr D to a new policy with new terms and 
conditons. Im also persuaded that the correct terms and conditions were sent to Mr D. Mr D 
hasnt provided any definitive evidence to show that he was sent the wrong terms and 
conditions, so in the absence of this, I dont think its fair to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require BIG Warranties Ltd to do 
anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman