DRN-4179932
The complaint
Mr B, Ms B, Mrs B and Mr C complain about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE has settled 
a claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
Mrs B brought the complaint to our service. So, for ease of reading, Ive referred mainly to 
her.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I havent set it out in detail 
here. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key events.
All of Mrs Bs travelling party of six people were insured under this annual, multi-trip travel 
insurance policy. Mrs B and her party had booked a trip abroad. They were due to travel to a 
country Ill call M on 17 January 2022, before travelling on to a country Ill call D on 25 
January 2022. They were then due to fly back to the UK on 28 January 2022. The party flew 
to M as planned on 17 January 2022.
However, unfortunately, on 22 January 2022, one of Mrs Bs children tested positive for 
Covid-19. Under a directive by Ms government, the whole party was required to self-isolate 
for seven days. This meant they had to extend their stay in M. And on 28 January 2022, Mrs 
B and Ms B both also tested positive for Covid-19. The party accordingly had to quarantine 
for a further seven days. They ultimately were able to return to the UK on 5 February 2022.
Mrs B made a claim on the policy for the additional costs she and her party incurred as a 
result of needing to quarantine in M and for the costs of cutting short the trip.
Great Lakes ultimately partly settled the claim. It settled Mrs Bs childs unused travel, 
accommodation and excursion costs under the curtailment section of the policy, along with 
the curtailment costs for one adult accompanying him. It also covered Mrs Bs childs 
additional costs, along with one adults costs, under the Emergency Medical and Additional 
Expenses section of the policy.
Mrs B was unhappy with Great Lakes settlement. Thats because Great Lakes had declined 
to cover either the curtailment costs or additional expenses of the remaining four members 
of her travelling party. So she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator recommended that Great Lakes should increase the settlement, although 
she didnt think it needed to pay Mrs Bs full claim. She considered that the terms of the 
curtailment section of the policy were ambiguous and therefore ought to be interpreted in 
Mrs Bs favour. As such, she felt Great Lakes should cover the curtailment costs of all six 
insured members of the travelling party, as theyd all been required to self-isolate. She also 
noted that both Mrs B and Ms B had developed Covid-19 during the insured period and so 
she felt that their additional expenses should be covered under the Emergency Medical and 
Other Expenses section of the policy. She recommended that Great Lakes should pay 
interest on the settlement.
Mrs B told our investigator she was happy with the complaint outcome. But Great Lakes 
didnt accept the investigators findings. It felt the policy terms made it clear that curtailment 
cover was only provided for a policyholder whod become ill, not the other members of their 
party. And it considered that both Mrs B and Ms B had become ill after their intended return 
date. Therefore, it maintained that there was no cover for their extended stay abroad. 
So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Great Lakes has settled Mrs Bs claim fairly and Ill explain why.
First, I must make it clear that this decision will only consider how Great Lakes has settled 
this claim and whether I think it did so reasonably. Another ombudsman has already decided 
a separate complaint about the service Mrs B received while Great Lakes assessed the 
claim. So I wont be making any findings on that point.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mrs Bs policy and the available evidence, to decide whether I think Great Lakes 
settled this claim fairly.
Ive carefully considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the 
contract between Mrs B and Great Lakes. There are two elements to this claim  whether 
the curtailment claim has been settled fairly and whether the additional expenses claim has 
been settled in line with the policy terms. Ill consider each element in turn. 
The curtailment claim
Its common ground that Mrs B and her family were quarantined in M following a positive 
Covid-19 test result of one of the children on 22 January 2022. This meant that Mrs B and 
her party were unable to travel on to D for three days, as theyd planned. Great Lakes has 
already partially settled the claim under Section A  Cancellation or Curtailment. This 
provides the following cover:
We will reimburse up to the amount shown in the Schedule of Benefitsin total under this 
policy for financial loss you suffer, being non-refundable deposits and amounts you have 
paid for travel and accommodation you do not use because of your inability to travel or 
complete your trip
Great Lakes has set out the insured events it covers under Section A. This list includes:
If after you have left home to start your trip, you are placed in compulsory quarantine for a 
minimum of 24 hours upon the instruction of a medical practitioner. There is no cover if this 
instruction if it [sic] has been imposed on a community, geographic location or vessel by any 
government or local authority.
Section A also includes a list of things Great Lakes specifically excludes from cover. This list 
includes the following:
What is not coveredThis exclusion does not Claims arising from you following general advice from a government 
to self-isolate. This includes, but is not limited to, you receiving a letter advising self-isolation 
for you or a family member, or you are contacted by a track-and-trace service and are 
advised to self-isolate.
The policy includes too a list of General Exclusions which apply to the whole policy. Page 
51 includes the following exclusion:
Any claim arising directly or indirectly from any Coronavirus disease
This exclusion does not apply to the following:
Section A Cancellation or Curtailment, specific covered events
If, after you have left Home to start your trip, you are placed in Compulsory Quarantine for a 
minimum of 24 hours upon the instruction of a medical practitioner. There is no cover if this 
instruction is the result of any government law or regulation to an area or region of a 
country.
Within the definitions section of the policy, Great Lakes has defined what it means by you, 
your and insured person as follows:
Each person named on the policy certificate and for whom the appropriate premium has 
been paid
From the evidence Ive seen, Mrs B and her party were required to self-isolate in M 
(following her childs diagnosis with Covid-19) due to a regulation issued by Ms government 
and Ms Health Protection Agency. Great Lakes appears to accept that Mrs Bs childs claim 
was covered under Section A of the policy, along with an accompanying adult, without 
reference to any policy exclusion. In response to our investigators assessment though, 
Great Lakes indicated that it felt the claim for the compulsory quarantine of the remaining 
members of the party wasnt covered because they were effectively a community. As Ive set 
out above, community compulsory quarantine is excluded from policy cover.
I agree with our investigator that the policy terms arent drafted in a particularly clear or 
understandable way on this point. Cover appears to apply where a policyholder has been 
placed in compulsory quarantine for more than 24 hours, following medical instruction as 
Mrs Bs party were. I think its fair to treat Ms Director General of Public Health and its Public 
Health Agency as medical practitioners in line with the policy terms. Neither do I think a 
reasonable policyholder would interpret community as referring to a family party of six  I 
think it would more reasonably be interpreted as a group of people living in a specific area, 
or larger group with a shared interest.
And I think a policyholder reading section A would understand claims due to their own 
compulsory quarantine because of Public Health Agency medical advice would be covered. 
So in my view, the cover for compulsory quarantine is unclear and ambiguous and I dont 
think its readily understandable for most reasonable policyholders. Its a legal principle that 
where a policy term has been drafted in an ambiguous way, it must be interpreted in favour 
of the party who didnt draft the contract. In this case, thats Mrs B. So I think the curtailment 
cover should be interpreted in her favour and I find that a curtailment claim ought to be 
treated as covered.
Great Lakes has argued that the policy only covers Mrs Bs child and one adults costs under 
this section. I disagree. The policy defines you or insured person as each person named on 
the policy certificate. All six members of Mrs Bs party were named on the policy certificate and all six were placed in compulsory quarantine. On that basis, Im satisfied that Great 
Lakes must settle the curtailment costs of all six insured persons, together with interest.
The additional expenses claim
Section B of the policy says that Great Lakes will pay emergency medical costs for each 
insured person who suffers unforeseen illness during a trip. In this case, both Mrs B and Ms 
B were diagnosed with Covid-19 on 28 January 2022  the day they were due to return 
home. On that basis, I find that they did become ill during their trip and that policy cover 
remained operative at this point. So Im satisfied that their claims for additional expenses 
should be therefore covered, considered and settled under this section of the policy.
I agree with our investigator though that Great Lakes is only responsible for covering the 
emergency medical expenses and other expenses of members of Mrs Bs party who did 
become ill abroad. Great Lakes has already settled Mrs Bs childs and one adults costs 
under this heading. While it indicated that these costs were for Mrs B, it isnt clear why this 
was the case, rather than Mr B, who was also an accompanying adult. So I find it must now 
consider and settle the remaining ill adults additional expenses in line with Section B.
Overall, Im satisfied that Great Lakes hasnt settled this claim fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to accept and settle the curtailment claim for the 
remaining four members of the insured, travelling party in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
I also direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to accept and settle the ill adults additional expenses 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Great Lakes must add interest to both settlement amounts at an annual rate of 8% simple, 
from the date of claim until the date of settlement. If Great Lakes considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr B, Ms B, 
Mrs B and Mr C how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr B, Ms B, Mrs B and Mr C a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, Ms B, Mrs B 
and Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman