DRN-2411310
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) 
under his Homecare policy when his boiler broke down.
I previously issued a provisional decision in relation to the complaint. I havent received any 
further information in response to this that makes me need to reconsider that decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them at length.
Briefly stated, Mr Fs boiler broke down on 18 November 2019 leaving him and his family
without heating and hot water. BG visited on 22 November for a previously scheduled
appointment. Its engineer told Mr F that the problem was sludge, and he needed to have his
system powerflushed or a new boiler. Mr F called another engineer who fitted a new pump
on 5 December and heating and hot water were restored.
The period between BGs visit on 22 November and his own engineer fixing the boiler was
13 days. Mr F says he had to buy electric heaters to keep his family warm and they had to
go to the houses of relatives and clubs for baths, all of which was inconvenient and costly.
BG has reimbursed Mr F for the payment he had to make to have his boiler repaired
(£308.99) and interest on this (£5.61). It also paid him £50 compensation as a good will
gesture.
As Mr F wasnt satisfied with BGs response to his complaint, he brought it to this service.
Our investigator recommended that BG pay Mr F a further £50 compensation which it
agreed to do. Mr F doesnt consider total compensation of £100 is sufficient given the out of
pocket expenses he had to incur because BG wouldnt fix his boiler. Hes asked that an
ombudsman now consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Fs complaint and requiring BG to pay Mr F additional compensation and Ill 
explain why.
BG has said that it strongly suspects that it was the presence of sludge in Mr Fs heating
system that caused his boiler to break down. Its also said that any repairs relating to sludge
are excluded from Mr Fs Homecare policy. I assume this is the reason why BG didnt offer
Mr F a repair. But in saying this, BG isnt reflecting the policy wording. The Homecare policy
states that it excludes:
Damage caused by limescale, sludge or other debris  if weve told you before
that you need to carry out repairs, improvements or a BG Powerflush, or a similar
process, but you havent done so. (my emphasis underlined)
In my provisional decision I said that unless BG could evidence that it had previously told Mr 
F that he needed a Powerflush to deal with sludge, it could not, in my view, rely upon this 
exclusion. Following my provisional decision BG didnt provide me with any such evidence.
In my view BG shouldve repaired Mr Fs boiler even if this was likely only to be a
temporary repair unless Mr F subsequently arranged for a Powerflush. If BG wasnt able to
undertake a repair on the day, a repair might still have been done considerably sooner than
5 December, and Mr F might not have had the inconvenience, and have incurred the
expenses he did, until he could get a repair done by others.
I consider that the inconvenience of Mr F and his family having to go to the houses of
others for baths, and to be without proper heating for 13 days during a cold time of year,
merits a higher amount of compensation than that so far offered. This was not a minor
inconvenience. I consider that compensation of £150 for this significant trouble and upset is
more appropriate in these circumstances.
I also consider that it would be fair and reasonable for BG to pay Mr F an additional sum
towards the expenses he says he incurred in buying heaters, for travel, and extra energy
costs when BG wouldnt undertake a repair, leaving Mr F and his family without heating and
hot water. I appreciate that Mr F hasnt been able to provide receipts, but I think its
reasonable to accept that Mr F did buy heaters  hes been specific about what he bought
- and that without central heating his family wouldve been wholly reliant on electric heating
over this period, and that this costs more. In the absence of receipts and comparisons of
energy usage over similar periods, I think £100 would be a reasonable sum to cover this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above,  Im upholding Mr Fs complaint. I require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr F a total of £250 compensation, less any compensation its 
already paid him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman