DRN-2804330
The complaint
Mr D complains about delays completing an ISA transfer with Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
What happened
On 21 May 2020 Barclays received an ISA transfer request from another business (A). As 
correspondence contained the ISA transfer form and a request for the funds to be sent by 
cheque, but it didnt include a fully completed transfer form. Only the final two pages of the 
form were sent. Barclays wrote to A and explained, due to the pandemic, it wasnt able to 
send cheques and asked for a completed form. 
On 5 June 2020 Barclays received a letter from A including its account number. But the ISA 
transfer form, wasnt included. Barclays asked A to send its request again, including the ISA 
transfer form. 
On 29 June 2020 Barclays received the completed ISA transfer form along with As bank 
details and processed the transfer. 
Mr D has told us he tried to call Barclays on numerous occasions during the above period 
but wasnt able to find out what had happened. Mr D says he was able to get through to 
other businesses during this time. 
Mr D complained but Barclays didnt agree it had made an error. Barclays said the ISA 
transfer request it initially received couldnt proceed as it wasnt sending cheques. Barclays 
also said subsequent ISA transfer instructions were incomplete.
The complaint was referred to this service and passed to an investigator. They didnt find 
that Barclays had delayed the ISA transfer and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr D asked 
to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all of the available correspondence between Barclays and A. As first request 
appears to have been incomplete as only last two pages of the ISA transfer form required 
were received. In addition, Barclays had stopped sending out cheques to settle ISA accounts 
due to Covid restrictions. As a result, Barclays requested A provide bank details for a 
transfer to be made and full ISA transfer form. As Ive said, As original request only 
contained two pages of the ISA transfer form. Barclays said it needed the full form to 
proceed, so it requested that from A as well. I havent found Barclays could proceed based 
on the first ISA transfer instruction it received.
Barclays received a follow up letter from A on 5 June 2020 but the ISA transfer form wasnt 
sent along with its account details. At this point, Barclays still hadnt received a fully 
complete ISA transfer form. 
After Barclays requested the completed form, A sent it along with its account details. On 29 
June 2020 Barclays transferred the funds requested. Whilst I can see there was a lot of back 
and forth, Im satisfied Barclays didnt received all the required information until As final 
correspondence was received at the end of June 2020. I cant see any unreasonable delays 
in transferring the funds from that point onwards. 
I understand Mr D feels he complied with the information required to transfer an ISA as set 
out on its website. But Mr D asked A to arrange the transfer on his behalf and Barclays had 
to ensure it had authority to do that. Im satisfied Barclays acted in good time when it 
received all the required information from A. 
Mr D has raised concerns about problems calling Barclays during this period. I know Mr D 
was able to speak with other businesses, including A, without delay. But I think its 
reasonable to say all businesses were operating in highly unusual conditions at this point. I 
dont doubt Mr A experienced long wait times and problems speaking with Barclays. But 
Barclays has explained its staff members were unable to access its offices due to the 
lockdown. As a result, staff were working from home and Barclays has explained the shift in 
the way it operated impacted the service provided. I think the delays Mr D experience reflect 
the challenging environment Barclays was operating under rather than errors or poor 
service.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but I havent been persuaded to uphold his complaint. I didnt 
find unreasonable delays by Barclays when processing the ISA transfer. Ultimately, it was 
only at the end of June 2020 that all the necessary information was received by Barclays 
and it then processed the transfer. As I havent found Barclays made an error and Im 
satisfied it dealt with Mr Ds complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman