DRN-3545622
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice NTM Financial Services Ltd (NTM) gave to him to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its NTM, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1, or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Cs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017 the DB scheme administrators sent its members time to choose packs. I 
haven't been provided with a copy of the pack sent to Mr C. But I'm aware that those gave 
scheme members three options:
To stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF.
To opt to move their benefits to the BSPS2.
To transfer out of the scheme and into a private arrangement.
The DB scheme administrators gave scheme members, including Mr C, until 
11 December 2017  which was later extended to 22 December 2017  to make their choice 
between the PPF and BSPS2. If Mr C didn't make a choice the default position was that his 
pension benefits would move to the PPF. The BSPS trustees had previously provided him 
with a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) which expired in February 2018. 
Mr C approached NTM for pension transfer advice in November 2017. NTM told him it might 
struggle to provide advice before the time to choose deadline of 22 December 2017. It 
completed a fact-find with him and an assessment of his risk appetite. It also obtained a 
transfer value analysis (TVAS) report. Amongst other things, NTM recorded that:
Mr C was aged 52, married to Mrs C, with 3 children, two of whom were under 
sixteen and financially dependent.
1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members of 
eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of 
the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme.
He was employed with a yearly income of £36,000 giving him a net monthly income 
of £2,042.
Mrs C was 45 years old, working and earning around £11,000 a year. 
They had regular outgoings of £1,464 a month.
They owned their own home which was worth £180,000. It had an outstanding 
mortgage that was due to be repaid when an endowment matured in June 2018.
They had two loans. One had an outstanding balance of around £1,300 and was due 
to be repaid in August 2018. The second had a balance of around £16,000 and 
wouldnt be repaid until 2021. They also had a credit card debt of around £1,400.
Mr C and his employer were contributing towards his employers defined contribution 
(DC) pension scheme.
Mr Cs preferred retirement age was 56. He thought he would need an income of 
around £2,000 a month in retirement. 
He had a high attitude to risk.
He had no investment experience.
His DB fund had a CETV of £477,266.
The BSPS would have paid him a full yearly pension of £26,728 at age 65. 
Alternatively, he could have taken a tax free cash (TFC) lump sum of £118,000 and 
a reduced pension of £17,713.
The growth rates required to match those benefits from an alternative pension (the 
critical yields) were 8.49% and 6.74% respectively.
At age 65 the PPF would entitle Mr C to a yearly pension of £22,135; or TFC of 
£115,019 and a reduced pension of £17,318. The critical yields to match that were 
4.5% and 4.09%.
At age 55 the BSPS would have paid Mr C a yearly pension of £14,396. Or he could 
have taken TFC of £67,870 and a reduced pension of £10,180. The critical yields 
were 28.12% and 19.08%.
The PPF would pay Mr C a yearly pension of £14,870 at age 55. Or he could take 
TFC of £82,091 and a yearly pension of £12,360. The relevant critical yields were 
12.54% and 11.11% respectively.
On 21 December 2017 NTM sent Mr C its suitability report setting out its analysis. It 
recommended he should transfer his DB funds to a named personal pension. Amongst other 
things it said Mr C: 
Was unhappy about the potential for his pension to go into the PPF. 
Wanted to retire at age 56.
Wanted the ability to access his pension benefits flexibly and take a higher income 
earlier in his retirement. 
Wanted to leave the pension fund remaining on his death to his family for them to 
access as they wished.
Wanted to take control of his pension investments.
The suitability report said that transferring would allow Mr C to meet his objectives. It said 
that by taking an income equivalent to his DB scheme by drawdown the funds would last 
beyond his life expectancy.
Mr C met with NTM on 5 January 2018 to discuss its recommendations. Mr C confirmed he 
hadn't opted into the BSPS2 because it wasnt guaranteed and wasnt his best option for 
early retirement and TFC. On the same day NTM provided an illustration from the named 
personal pension provider, showing what his transferred pension could be worth to him at his 
preferred retirement age of 56.
 Mr C accepted NTMs recommendation to transfer. He paid an initial fee to it of £9,545 for its 
advice and arranging the transfer. He also agreed to pay it fees for ongoing investment 
advice of 0.64% of the value of his fund. Also, the personal pension provider would charge 
him 0.05% of the fund value for setting up the pension together with a platform charge of 
.3% a year and an admin charge of £80. There were also individual fund charges amounting 
to around 0.46% a year. 
In 2021 Mr C complained to NTM that it had misadvised him. He said he didnt think NTM 
gave a fair assessment of the downfalls of a personal pension against remaining within the 
DB scheme. 
NTM didnt initially give a substantive reply to Mr Cs complaint. So Mr C referred it to our 
Service. After he'd done so NTM replied to the complaint. Amongst other things it said it had 
provided figures within its suitability report for Mr C retiring at age 55, rather than his desired 
retirement age of 56 as the DB schemes administrators wouldn't provide figures at age 56. It 
said that by the time he transferred, in January 2018, Mr C no longer had the opportunity to 
opt for the BSPS. So his only choices were to allow his pension to move to the PPF or to 
transfer. It added that the income from the PPF wouldnt allow him to retire at age 56. It said 
Mr Cs only real choice in order to meet his objectives was to transfer. It also said it had 
explained the risks involved in a transfer to a personal pension.
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. The Investigator didn't think NTM had 
dealt with Mr C fairly. The Investigator recommended that NTM should compensate Mr C for 
any loss he suffered because of its unsuitable advice. The Investigator also said NTM should 
pay Mr C £500 to address his distress and inconvenience arising from the unsuitable advice.
NTM didnt provide a substantive reply to our Investigators assessment. So the complaint 
was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Businesses 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of NTMs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, NTM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Cs best 
interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best 
interests.
The FCAs review, 
NTM told us the FCA had reviewed some of its files where it had given advice in similar 
circumstances to Mr Cs. It said the FCA didnt find it had done anything wrong. I wasnt 
party to what the FCA reviewed or what it found, nor do I need to be. Our function isn't a 
regulatory one. And while I'm required to consider the regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, my role is to decide whether NTM has acted fairly and reasonably in all the 
specific circumstances of this complaint not simply to look at what the FCA did. So the FCAs 
file review of other cases isnt relevant to that consideration. 
Financial viability 
NTM carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS - as the regulator required) showing 
how much Mr Cs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). NTMs TVAS showed two such 
comparisons, the first was with Mr Cs benefits from the BSPS and the second with Mr Cs 
benefits if he allowed his pension to move to the PPF. 
When Mr C approached NTM for advice he had until 22 December 2017 to tell the BSPS 
trustees whether he wanted to opt for the BSPS2. He had until February 2018 to decide if he 
wanted to transfer out of the DB environment altogether. NTM didnt send Mr C its suitability 
report until 21 December 2017. So its unlikely hed received and read it before the BSPS2 
deadline had passed. Mr C met with NTM in January 2018 to discuss its recommendations. 
At that meeting Mr C confirmed that he hadn't opted into BSPS2. And as this was a one-time 
only process, Mr C couldnt, at a later date, have changed his mind and opted for the 
BSPS2. That meant Mr C was only left with two options:
Allowing his pension to move into the PPF.
Transferring to an alternative arrangement.
As such the only comparison within NTMs TVAS of any real value was looking at the 
benefits of a transfer to a personal pension against those provided by the PPF. So thats 
what I've focused on below.
NTM gave its advice after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Ill explain that a discount rate is 
a measure of what an investment is likely to grow at in the future. We find it a useful tool to 
establish whether an investment is likely to match or exceed the required growth rates to 
make a DB transfer financially viable. Prior to October 2017 this Service published similar rates on our website. Whilst businesses 
weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I think they 
provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably 
achievable for a typical investor. So those would, in my view, be a reasonable assumption by 
which to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a personal pension with those payable 
under a DB scheme.
Mr C was aged 42 at the time of the advice and said his preference was to retire at age 56. 
NTM didnt provide any figures for retirement at age 56 and instead gave those for age 55. It 
said that was because the DB scheme administrators didnt provide figures for age 55. Its 
notable that NTM didn't ask for a copy of Mr Cs time to choose booklet. I'm aware that 
document set out a table of the relevant factors that would have allowed NTM to calculate 
Mr Cs benefit entitlement from the BSPS2 and the PPF at any age between 55 and 64. And 
given that the BSPS wasnt ever going to be an option for Mr C, I think it should have shown 
those figures for Mr C retiring at age 56. But it didnt do so. I think that was an avoidable 
oversight. And, as it didn't give those figures, I've referred to the figures it did show at age 55 
below. 
The critical yields required to match Mr Cs PPF benefits at age 55 were 12.54% if he took a 
full pension and 11.11% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. At the schemes normal 
retirement age of 65 the critical yields were 4.50% a year if Mr C took a full pension and 
4.09% if he took TFC and a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rates closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to were 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017. They 
were 2.7% for two full years to retirement at age 55, 2.8% for three full years to retirement at 
age 56 and 4% for 12 full years to retirement at age 65. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Cs 
high attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr C 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 
4.09% and the highest 12.54%, I think Mr C was likely to receive benefits of a lower overall 
value than the PPF at retirement.
NTM said its cash flow models showed that Mr C would be able to take equivalent benefits 
from the DB scheme or PPF and that the funds would last beyond his life expectancy. NTM 
hasn't shown its calculations, only the results of those, so it's not possible to check their 
accuracy. But, it said its figures are based on a return of 5% a year every year. However, 
some of the funds that NTM had recommended Mr C invest in fell into the adventurous risk 
category. Such funds tend to be fairly volatile. So consistent growth at a level of 5% seems 
unlikely. 
Also if there was a sustained period of poor performance or a market crash then there was a 
very real chance that Mr Cs fund would grow at a much slower rate or could suffer losses. In 
those circumstances Mr Cs fund could be significantly less than NTMs models show. 
Similarly NTM said Mr C wanted to transfer his funds in order to be able to take higher sums 
at an early age. But taking higher sums sooner would have the effect of reducing the funds 
remaining with less scope for growth. That could see those funds being depleted quicker 
than expected. But NTMs models dont appear to reflect that. Further, NTMs TVAS shows that, after three years investment, before Mr C turned 56, if the 
fund grew at 5% each year, it would be worth £546,274. That sum would increase to 
£565,641 after four years investment, around five months after Mr C turned 56. Those 
figures indicate that by Mr Cs 56th birthday his fund would be worth something like 
£557,500. But that is without factoring in the effects of inflation. In contrast the named 
pension providers illustration showed what Mr Cs fund would likely be worth at his 56th 
birthday, after allowing for a growth rate of 5% but being reduced by inflation of 2.5% as well 
as product and adviser charges. That illustration showed the fund would be worth £482,000 
at age 56. That is £75,500 less than NTMs advice was based upon. 
Further NTM's cash flow models appear to be based on Mr C taking equivalent income to 
the DB scheme at age 56. As far as I can tell it hasn't adjusted its models to show Mr C 
taking an income of at least £24,000 a year (£2,000 a month) from age 56, which is what he 
said he believed he needed. Neither, has it shown the outcome of models which are stress 
tested to allow for the possibility of market crashes or poor performance. 
It follows that I don't think NTMs cashflow models are likely to be representative of Mr Cs 
situation in retirement. 
That said, given his attitude to risk, if his fund did grow at the regulators mid-level projection 
rate there was scope for Mr Cs investments to make him slightly better off in retirement if he 
retired at age 65 compared to the PPF benefits. But that was anything but guaranteed. 
Transferring meant putting his funds at risk for only the marginal possibility that he could be 
better off by doing so. And, if his funds didn't meet NTMs projected growth rates, then he 
would likely be worse off in retirement. I dont think that clearly demonstrates, as the 
regulator required, that it was in his best interests to transfer. 
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. So I've 
gone on to consider whether NTM has clearly demonstrated that its advice was in Mr Cs 
best interests. When doing so I've been mindful that NTMs role was to find out what Mr Cs 
wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt simply to do what Mr C wanted without 
appropriate analysis and challenge of his motives for doing so, in order to ensure its 
recommendation was in his best interests. 
Flexibility and income needs
NTM said that transferring allowed Mr C to retire at 56. But having considered the evidence, 
I dont think Mr C had a genuine need to access his pension funds earlier than the normal 
scheme retirement age.
Mr C told NTM that his preference was to retire at 56. I can fully understand his wish to retire 
early. In fact I think most people would say that they would like to retire early if given the 
chance. I also think the majority would understand that having the opportunity to retire early 
isn't worth compromising their income security for the remainder of their retirement for. It 
seems to me that this is something Mr C was likely to reassess once he reached age 56. In 
fact Mr C turned 56 two years ago. But he told us that he still hasn't retired. So I think early 
retirement was something that was  most likely  nice to have rather than a genuine need 
for Mr C.
I can understand why Mr C would aspire to retiring at age 56. But, for most people, early 
retirement means a significant drop in income. And that would dramatically reduce most 
individuals spending power and lifestyle choices. So, when faced with that prospect at an 
early retirement age, most people choose not to retire. Instead they opt to continue working 
to support their current and future lifestyle options. And that seems to have been a more 
likely prospect for Mr C at the time of NTMs advice. But theres no evidence that NTM seriously challenged his wish of early retirement at age 56. So I dont think it met its 
obligations to challenge his objectives in light of what he would be giving up.
Its also notable that Mrs C was seven years younger than Mr C. She would still be only 49 
years old when Mr C turned 56. So its reasonable to assume that she would keep working 
and earning for some years to come. But NTM appears to have entirely ignored Mrs Cs 
ability to contribute towards the households outgoings. And assuming she retained her 
income of £11,000 a year and Mr C had a pension from the PPF of £12,360, that would 
leave them only around £640 a year short of their £24,000 a year target. 
And it's notable that Mr C was also paying into his employers DC scheme. In response to 
Mr Cs complaint NTM said that, by the time he turned 56, that pension would have a fund of 
around £28,400. So, Mr C could have used that fund to top up his income from the PPF until 
his state pension became payable at age 67 if hed been serious about retiring at age 56.
But, as I've said above, and as has actually happened, I dont think Mr Cs plans to retire at 
56 were concrete. So I think it would have been reasonable for NTM to apply less weight to 
Mr Cs desire for early retirement when giving its advice. 
That said, its true to say that Mr C couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to his 
PPF funds as he could from a personal pension. While he could have chosen to take his 
pension from the PPF early, if hed wanted to take TFC, then he would have had to take that 
at the same time as drawing a regular income from the PPF. Whereas the personal pension 
would allow Mr C to draw down funds as he saw fit. But while I can see why that might have 
been an attractive prospect to him, Im not persuaded that Mr C had any concrete need to 
take TFC at all or to vary his income throughout retirement.
Also its not the case that Mr C wouldnt have any flexible access to funds, as he would have 
been able to draw down sums from his DC pension. And, if he left that until he was 65, 
without factoring in salary increases, or investment growth, the DC fund could be worth in 
the region of £72,000 by the time he turns 65. So while the option of drawing all his pension 
income flexibly might seem like something that would be nice to have, I dont think Mr C had 
any genuine need for that flexibility that would be worth giving up guaranteed benefits for.
Death benefits
Mr C told NTM that he thought the potential for a lump sum for his wife, should he die before 
her, would be more beneficial than the spouses benefit from the DB scheme. Death benefits 
are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like their loved ones 
to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal 
pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr C. Thats because whatever was left within it at 
the date of his death would be passed on to Mr C. If that happened before his retirement or 
soon after, then that would likely be a significant sum. In contrast the PPF would pay Mr C 
half of Mr Cs yearly PPF pension entitlement after he died. But that pension would die with 
her. So Mr C couldnt leave it as a legacy for their children after she died.
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr C might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB funds to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was for NTM to advise him about what was best for his retirement 
provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement rather than for a 
legacy to family. But in transferring out of his DB scheme Mr C was essentially giving up a 
guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump sum 
for his family that they may not receive or need for many years to come. And by that time, 
the fund could have been depleted by Mr Cs withdrawals from it in the meantime. I also think the existing death benefits attached to the PPF were underplayed. In fact NTMs 
suitability report doesn't refer to the PPF death benefits at all, it only quotes Mr Cs 
entitlement from the DB scheme. I think its worth noting that death benefits from the PPF 
were not as generous as from the DB scheme. For example the PPF wouldn't provide any 
form of capital sum on Mr Cs death. But by the time NTM sent Mr C its suitability report, he 
would lose entitlement to the DB scheme benefits as the deadline to opt into BSPS2 would 
expire the next day. So I think it should have also covered off what the death benefits from 
the PPF were but it didnt do so. 
Further, regardless that the PPF death benefits were less generous than those from the 
BSPS, I dont think that justified a recommendation to transfer to a personal pension.
Mr C was married. The PPF would have paid Mrs C 50% of Mr Cs yearly pension 
entitlement on his death. This was guaranteed and escalated it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
And there may not have been a large sum left in the personal pension if Mr C lived a long 
life, he took large sums from it in early retirement, or if his investments suffered a prolonged 
period of poor performance. In any event, NTM should not have encouraged Mr C to 
prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security 
in retirement.
Also, Mr C had death in service cover from his employer. So that would have paid a 
considerable lump sum in the event he died while still working for his employer. But, if he 
wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on his employment, investment 
returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, then life insurance may 
have met his needs. 
Ive noted that NTM did look into the cost of life insurance. Its suitability report said that 
would cost Mr C around £527 a month. So it didnt think that was viable on grounds of cost. 
But I dont think NTM presented this option in a balanced way. NTM based the quote on the 
full transfer value of Mr Cs DB scheme. In other words it essentially assumed that he would 
die on day one following the transfer and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, Mr C wanted to leave 
whatever remained of his pension to his wife or children, which would be a lot less than the 
full transfer value if he lived a long life; his investment suffered losses or if he drew down 
large sums from it in the early years of retirement. A fairer manner in which to provide Mr C 
with realistic options would have been for NTM to ask Mr C how much he would ideally like 
to leave as a legacy, and how much he could afford to contribute. Insurance on this basis 
was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide and would have enabled him to leave a legacy 
without risking his retirement income.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the risk attached with Mr C transferring his pension. And I dont think NTM 
did enough to highlight the value of Mr Cs existing death benefits or to explore the 
alternatives available to him.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
NTM said Mr C wanted control over how his pension was invested and of his own destiny in 
retirement. But NTM recorded that Mr C had no investment experience. So, I cant see that 
he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. 
And I think his desire for this has been overstated. I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr C  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Rather, I think this objective was more linked to the uncertainty about the BSPS. I dont 
doubt Mr C, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His employer had been consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time. And there appears to have 
been a general mistrust and lack of optimism regarding the likelihood of a solution. I also 
dont doubt Mr C was worried his pension would end up in the PPF or that hed heard 
negative things about it and this was why he said he preferred to have control over his 
pension fund. 
Its also quite possible that Mr C was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the 
concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. But that is why 
it was even more important for NTM to give Mr C an objective picture and recommend what 
was in his best interests.
A move to the PPF would mean, on a general basis, a reduction of around 10% in retirement 
income and less generous yearly indexed pension increases. But, while I understand that 
the prospect of pension benefits moving to the PPF was for some people rather daunting, its 
probably the case that it wasn't as significant as many BSPS scheme members believed it to 
be. And, as I've explained above, Mr C could have met his needs in retirement and retained 
guaranteed benefits from the PPF. 
It follows that I'm not persuaded the uncertainty Mr C experienced when he entered into the 
advice process was sufficient reason for NTM to recommend he should transfer his 
safeguarded benefits from a DB scheme, even one that was likely to be moving to the PPF. 
Thats because to do so would expose those funds to the volatilities and risks of the 
investment markets. So, I dont think those concerns should have been a significant driver in 
NTM recommending Mr C transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr C. But NTM wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr C needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
NTM was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr C about 
what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension pots like 
Mr Cs DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. So, I dont 
think it was in Mr Cs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme funds to a personal 
pension. 
I appreciate that, by the time Mr C received, considered and accepted NTMs advice, he 
could no longer opt for the BSPS2. So his only option other than a transfer was the PPF. 
Something hed said he didnt want. But by allowing his pension to move to the PPF, he 
would have retained a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. And by transferring to a 
personal pension Mr C was unnecessarily putting his pension funds at risk. I dont think there 
were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. So, I 
dont think it was in Mr Cs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal 
pension when he could retain safeguarded benefits within the PPF.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr C would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway 
if it wasnt for NTMs advice. I accept that Mr C is an adult and plainly capable of making his 
own decisions. But, after thinking about this carefully, I'm not persuaded he would have 
transferred if it wasnt for NTMs recommendation that he should do so. Thats because, at 
the time of its advice, Mr Cs BSPS pension accounted for the majority of his retirement 
provision. He was an inexperienced investor who had no need to put his pension funds at 
risk and he was paying NTM for its expertise. So, if NTM had given clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
would have accepted the expert professional advice he was paying for.
It follows that I don't think NTMs advice to Mr C to transfer out of his DB scheme was 
suitable for him. Instead I think it should have advised him to allow his DB funds to move to 
the PPF. So, I think it's fair for NTM to compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, in line 
with the regulators rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
And, as hes been concerned that the pension fund hed contributed to for over 35 years has 
been unnecessarily put at risk as a result of NTMs unsuitable advice, I think it should pay 
him £500 to address that distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for NTM to put Mr C, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. As I've said above, I think Mr C 
would have remained in the DB scheme which would then have moved into the PPF. 
NTM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
When making the calculation NTM (or providers acting for it) should use the FCAs BSPS-
specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output 
should be sent to Mr Cs representative and our Service upon completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr C has not yet retired, and as far as Im aware he has no plans to do so at 
present. So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, 
as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Cs acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, NTM should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr C accepts NTMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, NTM may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr 
Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
NTM should also pay Mr C £500 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience 
arising from its unsuitable advice. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and will require NTM Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mr C the balance.
If Mr C accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on NTM Financial 
Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman