DRN-2918426
The complaint
Mr P complained that UK Credit Limited trading as UK Credit lent to him irresponsibly 
and provided him with unaffordable lending.
What happened
UK Credit provided loans to Mr P as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
payable
1 11/02/2015 £3,500 48 months £134.40 £6,451.20
2 23/05/2017 £3,850 48 months £147.84 £7,096.32
When Mr P complained to UK Credit it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked at the complaint and thought that 
UK Credit had fairly provided the first loan but that it shouldnt have provided loan 2. 
Our investigator explained why he was recommending that the complaint about loan 2 
should be upheld and he set out directions indicating what UK Credit should do to put 
things right.
Mr P has told us he accepted what our investigator said in his view letter. 
UK Credit disagreed. In summary, it mainly said that its checks had been reasonable 
and proportionate and it hadnt seen any evidence to suggest the loan wouldnt be 
sustainably affordable.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having done so, I am 
upholding Mr Ps complaint about loan 2 for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the 
borrower also has to pay.
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also require the lender 
to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or 
more money problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be 
repaid in a sustainable way.
Mr P hasnt objected to what our investigator said with respect to not upholding his complaint 
about loan 1. So I dont think I need to say more about loan 1 except that Ive reviewed this 
loan and independently reached the same conclusion as our investigator. I havent seen 
enough to say that UK Credit shouldnt have provided this loan  so Im not upholding this 
part of Mr Ps complaint. But, like our investigator, I dont think UK Credit shouldve provided 
loan 2.
I have reviewed the information UK Credit gathered when it agreed to provide loan 2. 
UK Credit checked payslip information to verify Mr Ps declared income and recorded 
that his pay was around £1,544 per month. 
Mr P told UK Credit he currently lived as part of another household, so he had no 
responsibility for all the usual household expenses. He said he would shortly be moving into 
a new job with accommodation provided when he would only have to pay for food and 
housekeeping with rent and priority household expenditure met by his employer. 
UK Credit checked Mr Ps credit file to see how much he was already paying to other 
creditors and gain an understanding of his credit history. After reviewing the information on 
the credit report it obtained and speaking to Mr P, UK Credit made allowance for Mr P 
paying around £465 each month towards his existing credit commitments. 
Based on the information Mr P supplied, and the results of its checks, UK Credit 
concluded that Mr P should have more than £1,000 surplus cash each month and so the 
repayments on the new loan shouldve been affordable for him.But I dont think UK Credit thought carefully enough about the bigger picture and what 
conclusions it could fairly draw based on all the information it had gathered.
Whilst having other outstanding lending or even an impaired credit history wouldnt be 
unusual for a borrower applying for this type of expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt 
necessarily be a bar to lending, I dont think UK Credit took properly into account what the 
information it had gathered showed about Mr Ps overall financial situation and the 
likelihood of him being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner 
UK Credit saw that Mr P was already spending £476 - almost a third of his net monthly 
income - making the monthly repayments on his two existing loans and a hire purchase 
agreement. As well as this, he also had to pay his credit cards and his mail order account. 
I think that his current debt servicing costs took up such a significant proportion of Mr Ps 
take home pay it was a clear indication that Mr P was, in reality, already experiencing 
financial difficulty. And thats borne out by other information UK Credit saw showing that 
Mr P had exceeded available credit limits on his credit cards and he already had two other 
loans shown on the credit report that he hadnt finished paying for  one of them in arrears 
for the last six months and now three payments behind. 
I think Mr P wouldve needed to pay more than the amount UK Credit appears to have 
made allowance for in order to make any significant inroads into clearing his credit cards 
and his mail order account within a reasonable space of time  which wouldve added to 
his debt servicing costs. And Ive also kept in mind that Mr P told UK Credit he intended to 
spend this loan money  so it would be adding to his overall indebtedness and extending 
the time he would be repaying expensive borrowing of this type. 
Taking all these things into account, I think UK Credit ought reasonably to have been 
aware that taking this additional, costly lending was likely to further over-stretch Mr Ps 
finances beyond the point where the portion of his income he would need to spend every 
month over the loan term just to meet his credit commitments would be sustainable for him  
In my opinion, as a responsible lender, UK Credit shouldve realised that Mr P would 
likely struggle to repay this loan  especially bearing in mind the 4 year loan term.
In coming to my decision, Ive thought carefully about everything UK Credit has said, 
including its comments made in response to our investigators view letter. The fact Mr P 
successfully made the loan repayments until his work situation changed doesnt mean that 
he was able to do so sustainably.
And although Mr P had told UK Credit that the loan showing in arrears on its credit report 
had been settled, I dont think it would be reasonable to accept this at face value when what 
Mr P said contradicted the information UK Credit had obtained. It saw nothing else to show 
he was correct in saying this. Mr P had failed to provide bank statements that UK Credit 
asked to see. I have noted that UK Credit did include ongoing payment for this loan in its 
affordability assessment which I think was the correct approach to take. To sum up, thinking about all the information UK Credit had gathered, for the reasons I have 
explained, I cant reasonably say that it made a fair lending decision based on the 
information in front of it. I dont think UK Credit was able to safely conclude that its loan 
would be sustainably affordable for Mr P. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that UK Credit should pay any additional redress. Mr P 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think UK Credit 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr P in any other way. 
So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
But UK Credit shouldnt have provided loan 2 and so it needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr P to repay the capital amount that he borrowed when 
he took out loan 2 because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him.
In line with this Services approach, Mr P shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed.
If UK Credit has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, UK Credit should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr P received as a result of having been 
given loan 2. The repayments Mr P made should be deducted from this 
amount
if this results in Mr P having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* 
(calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the date of 
settlement)
if there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount 
outstanding, then UK Credit should try and arrange an affordable payment 
plan with Mr P bearing in mind its obligation to treat Mr P sympathetically 
and fairly if he still needs further time to pay
whilst its fair that Mr Ps credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial 
history, its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse 
information recorded about a loan that was unfairly provided. So UK Credit 
should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ps credit file 
regarding loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit 
should give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint about loan 2 and direct UK Credit Limited trading as 
UK Credit to take the steps I've set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman