DRN-1925952
The complaint
Miss B complains that FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance registered a 
default against her.
What happened
In March 2016 Miss B was supplied with a car and entered into a Personal Contract 
Purchase agreement with Motonovo. The agreement ran for 3 years. Miss B paid all the 
payments and returned the car.
In September 2019 Miss B and her partner applied for a remortgage. The application was 
declined. Around this time, Miss B discovered that Motonovo had reported incorrect 
information on her credit file which had affected her credit score. Motonovo had reported a 
forced repossession and had registered a default.
 
Miss B contacted Motonovo to raise a complaint. Motonovo arranged for her credit file to be 
corrected and paid £250 compensation.
Miss B wasnt happy with the compensation and complained to this service. She said the 
adverse information on her credit file resulted in her remortgage application being declined 
and meant she couldnt pay off her credit card balance for a further two months.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Motonovo had done enough to put 
things right.
Miss B didnt agree. Sher said she was paying her credit cards at £600 per month which she 
wouldnt have had to pay for a further two months if her remortgage application had been 
accepted. She also said her credit card limit had been reduced because of the adverse 
information on her credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Miss Bs credit file. I can see that the information reported by Motonovo was 
the only adverse information on her file at the time when she applied for her remortgage. 
After the credit file was corrected, Miss Bs remortgage application was accepted. So, I 
agree that its more likely than not that the adverse entry negatively impacted the remortgage 
application.
Motonovo has said that it arranged for the credit file to be corrected as soon as it became 
aware of the error. Looking at the credit file, I can see that the default is no longer showing.
Miss B has provided information to show that she completed the remortgage in February 
2020 and paid off her credit card balances. Shes also confirmed that the remortgage hasnt 
resulted in higher monthly mortgage payments.
The issue in this case is whether Miss B has been disadvantaged in not being able to 
complete her remortgage and pay off her credit card balances sooner, and the 
inconvenience caused by the error. 
Miss B has said that her credit card payments were around £600 per month. I understand 
the point Miss B makes about having more disposable income if she didnt have to make this 
payment. I also appreciate that her credit limit was reduced  although its not clear from the 
letter confirming this that this was due to the negative entry on her credit file. Whilst I agree 
that to be paying £600 per month for longer than she wanted would have impacted Miss Bs 
spending power, I cant say that shes suffered a financial loss here.
I accept that paying off the credit cards would mean that interest would no longer be paid on 
the balance. However, the use of remortgage funds to clear a credit card balance is likely to 
result in interest being payable on the mortgage over a longer period. So again, Im not 
persuaded that theres been a financial loss caused by the error in these circumstances.
Miss B has said that she intended to pay off the mortgage early, but I cant be certain that 
this wouldve happened, as this is a future event which could be affected by several factors.
I understand how distressing it mustve been for Miss B to have her remortgage application 
declined and to discover adverse information on her credit file. In circumstances like these, 
Id expect the business to correct the credit file and pay fair compensation. 
Im of the view that Motonovo has paid compensation in line with what this service would 
recommend so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman