DRN-4175228
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as E, complains that ClearBank Limited (Tide) wont 
reimburse all the money it lost to a scam.
Mrs L, who is a director of E, brings the complaint on Es behalf.
Tide branded accounts are provided by Clearbank Limited, but for convenience and clarity in 
what follows I will refer to Tide.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will 
summarise the relevant facts.  
E holds an account with Tide, with Mrs L as an authorised signatory. On 13 June 2022, 
Mrs L received a call from someone claiming to be from Tides fraud team. Unfortunately, 
and unknown to Mrs W at the time, she was in reality interacting with a scammer. 
The caller had been able to make it appear that the call originated from the number on the 
back of Mrs Ls Tide card (a fraud technique known as number spoofing). 
The caller said Es account was at risk of fraudulent activity. Believing she was acting on 
Tides instructions to protect the account, Mrs L was tricked into authorising a payment 
which almost entirely cleared the account balance.
The payee name entered was Mrs Ls own name (her maiden name)  although it now turns 
out that the destination account was held in a completely different name. Due to the 
operation of the scam Mrs L was unaware of this fact at the time. 
Mrs L was told the money would appear back in her Tide app within minutes, and she waited 
on hold. But the caller eventually hung up on her. Suspicious, Mrs L reported what had 
happened to Tide, and it was confirmed that shed fallen victim to a scam.
Tide tried to recover Es money, but none remained. 
Tide declined to refund E for its losses. It maintained its position when E complained. In its 
final response, it said Mrs L had authorised the disputed payments and there was nothing 
more it could have done to have prevented the loss. It explained it was not feasible to stop 
and check every single payment and it had adequate systems in place. 
Our Investigator reviewed everything. He recommended the complaint be upheld. The 
Investigator highlighted that the payment was for a higher value than had been usual for Es 
account. He also thought draining the account balance should have stood out. 
In all, he thought Tide ought to have been concerned enough to intervene and warn Mrs L 
this could be a scam before processing the payment. Tide would have been able to uncover 
the scam if had contacted Mrs L to question her about the reason for the payments. He 
noted the sophistication of the scam and considered Mrs Ls actions were reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Tide didnt accept the Investigators view. It said that its business customers do make bigger 
payments from time to time and pointed out it has a difficult balance to strike between 
allowing genuine business activity and detecting potential irregularities. It argued that the 
payment wasnt a significant increase over prior payments. With this being a business 
account, this type of payment to a new payee wasnt necessarily unexpected.
In light of this disagreement, I have been asked to reach a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and despite what Tide has said and the evidence it has provided, Ive 
concluded that Tide should refund the sum E lost to the scam, together with interest to 
recognise that E has been deprived of that money for a considerable length of time. Ill 
explain why Ive reached that finding.
Im satisfied that Mrs L authorised this payment on behalf of E, albeit only through a 
sophisticated deception which led her to believe instead that she was acting to protect these 
funds. So, although she didnt intend the money to go to the scammer, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of the account, E is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance. But the matter doesn't end there.
As a matter of good industry practice, Id expect Tide to be looking out for unusual or out of 
character payments that might be indicative of the risk of loss through fraud or scam. 
Here I am satisfied that this transaction bore the hallmarks of a safe-account scam. The 
payment instruction was higher than any other payments E had made before. The transfer 
was initiated from a new device (albeit one authorised by Mrs Ls registered device). It 
largely depleted the available balance, and it appears the account name didnt match the 
account name that Mrs L had entered (her own maiden name).
Ive taken into account Tides representations on this point, but I think there was enough 
here to fairly and reasonably have prompted Tide to identify a significant scam or fraud risk. 
In other words, having considered everything in the round, I find there was enough here that 
as a matter of good industry practice Tide ought to have identified that this payment 
instruction was most likely the result of fraud or a scam. 
In these circumstances, prior to processing the instruction, I think it fair and reasonable to 
expect that Tide should have taken steps to contacted Mrs L and asked some appropriate 
questions before processing the payment. 
Theres nothing to make me think Mrs L would have done other than to answer openly and 
honestly, thereby bringing the scam to light. Therefore, had Tide done so, I see no reason 
why it would not have been able to uncover the scam and prevent Es losses.
While I therefore find Tide could have prevented the loss that resulted, Ive gone on to 
consider whether Mrs Ls actions or inactions fell below the standard expected of a 
reasonable person. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded that she should fairly be blamed for falling for the scammers story. I can understand why she accepted what she was being told. I consider it 
critical in this situation to apply appropriate weight to the trust built by the scammer during 
the course of this scam, and the sophistication of the mechanics of the scam (which I will not 
document here).
And in particular, I find that a spoofed number can often prove a very powerful deception to 
convince a customer that the call has originated with the genuine company being 
impersonated. 
All taken into account, in this specific instance Im satisfied this carried significant weight  
adding considerable legitimacy to the false beliefs the scammer was able to engender. At 
the time Mrs L believed she was speaking to Tide, and I dont think she ought to have 
realised that she wasnt.
So, all considered, I am not persuaded Mrs L acted unreasonably in the circumstances. 
Rather, I think she did what a reasonable person would most likely have done in the same 
situation. As such, I dont think it is fair to conclude that E should share liability with Tide for 
the loss that resulted. 
In addition to the capital sum that was lost here, I have considered the length of time that E 
has been deprived of these funds. Mrs L has explained the impact this had on the business 
and how the funds would have been used for specific purposes had they not been lost. 
Of course, I cannot know the precise financial impact on E. In the circumstances, I consider 
an award of interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum would be fair and reasonable to reflect 
the time E has been deprived of this money. I consider that to be fair in all the circumstances 
here taking into account the impact on E of the loss of this money and the considerable time 
this matter has taken.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I find that Clearbank Limited (Tide) should:
Pay E the sum of £10,005.81, less any sums that have already been reimbursed or 
returned to E, that being the amount lost to this scam; and,
Pay interest on that amount, calculated at 8% simple per year (less any tax properly 
deductible*) from the date of the payment until the date of settlement. 
* If ClearBank Limited considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from the interest award, it should tell E how much its taken off. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Es complaint about Clearbank Limited. 
Clearbank Limited should settle the matter as set out above within 28 days of receiving 
notification of Es acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman