DRN-3117855
The complaint
Miss S has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim 
she made under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S had a motor insurance policy which is underwritten by Advantage.
On 3 December 2020 Miss S made a claim as her car had been stolen. On 4 January 2021 
she received an email from Advantage explaining that it was settling her claim for £12,060 
minus her excess of £200. The letter stated that Miss S should have already received a text 
message to let her know that the payment of that amount had been sent and would be paid 
within seven working days. The letter advised her that she had 30 days to add a new car to 
the existing policy if she wanted to.
Miss S purchased a new car the next day under a finance agreement.
Miss S notified Advantage that she had a GAP insurance policy. The GAP insurer had a 
commercial interest in the valuation placed on the car by Advantage, as it would impact the 
amount the GAP insurer would pay in the event of a successful claim. So, it needed to agree 
the valuation before the settlement could be paid. The GAP insurer disputed Advantages 
valuation, which resulted in a delay to Advantage paying the settlement figure.  
On 9 February 2021, Advantage contacted Miss S to explain that her car had been 
recovered and was repairable. So, it said the car would be returned to her rather than 
treated as a total loss. The car was returned to Miss S around two months later.
As Miss S now had two cars, she sold her original car to an online car buying service for 
£10,887.66. She asked Advantage to pay her the difference between this amount and the 
settlement it would have paid when it considered her car to be a total loss.
Advantage offered Miss S £150 compensation as it acknowledged that it could have done 
more to explain what would happen if the car was later recovered. But it didnt agree to pay 
difference between the initial total loss offer and the amount Miss S sold the car for. This 
was because it said Miss S wasnt categorically told to buy another car. And because it said 
she could have sold her car privately for the full market value, rather than at a loss to the 
website she chose.
Our investigator recommended that Advantage pay Miss S the difference between what she 
had received from the sale of her car, and the amount Advantage initially offered when it 
considered her car a total loss. She said this amounted to £972.34 after the policy excess 
had been deducted.
Miss S accepted the findings, but Advantage didnt. So, because no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and will be upholding 
Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss S has explained that she only purchased the new car following the letter she received 
from Advantage on 4 January 2021. The letter stated:
Your vehicle has been valued at £12,060 and, after deductions, youll be paid 
£11,860;
You should have already received a text message to let you know your payments 
been sent and will be paid to you within 7 working days; 
After your payments been sent, your policy will stay live for 30 days to give you time 
to add a new vehicle.; and
If we dont hear from you within 30 days of your payment, your policy will end. 
So, Miss S was told that payment had been sent and would arrive in her account by 
14 January 2021. She was also told that if she hadnt added a new vehicle to the policy by 
14 February 2021, the policy would be cancelled.
The letter didnt explain that if the car was recovered prior to the payment being made, the 
offer could be revoked. There was also nothing in the letter to indicate that any problems had 
been anticipated, with regard to making the payment. In fact, it said the payment had been 
sent and would be paid to Miss S by 14 January 2021 at the latest. Taking all of this into 
account, I dont think it was unreasonable for Miss S to assume that she could now go and 
buy another car, which she did the following day.
Advantage has provided several reasons why it disagrees that its responsible for Miss S 
financial loss. It says it has acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy by 
electing to repair her car. Advantage also says it couldnt have paid the initial settlement 
offer at the time because of the delayed response from the GAP insurer. It says the GAP 
insurer had a financial interest in the car and so needed to agree to the valuation before any 
payment could be made. 
I should be clear that this complaint focuses only on the actions of Advantage, and not the 
GAP insurer. So, Ill not be making any findings on any delays which were allegedly caused 
by the GAP insurer.
The terms and conditions of Miss S policy explain how Advantage can settle a claim:
Section 2
Damage or loss caused by fire or theft
Youre covered for fire, theft, attempted theft or lightning damage to your Car/s 
If your Car is damaged or lost because of theft, attempted theft, fire or lightning there 
are three ways your Policy can help you get back on the road again. Your Insurer will 
do one of the following: Pay for any necessary repairs
 Replace your Car
 Pay the Market Value of your Car immediately before the loss.
 
Miss S car was initially stolen, so it couldnt be assessed to determine if it was repairable. 
Based on this Advantage calculated the market value of the car and offered that amount to 
Miss S. This is what I would have expected it to do.
The car was recovered before the settlement had been paid. When it was recovered, 
Advantage was able to inspect it and this inspection established that the car could be 
repaired. So, based on the above, Advantage has acted in line with a strict interpretation of 
the policy terms. But as an ombudsman, in addition to the policy terms, Im also required to 
consider what is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the letter Advantage sent to Miss S on 4 January 2021, I think Advantage created 
a reasonable expectation on Miss S part, that her claim had been accepted and the sum of 
£11,860 had been sent to her account. While the policy terms and conditions permitted 
Advantage to repair or replace the car, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for them to 
make a different decision on the claim (that is, to repair the car) after theyd told Miss S that 
payment had been sent to her and she only had 30 days to add another vehicle to her policy. 
Miss S shouldnt be disadvantaged as a result of the way Advantage have dealt with her 
claim. 
Ive also considered Advantages point that Miss S chose to use an online car buying 
service, which was always unlikely to pay her market value for the car. However, Miss S has 
explained that she explored other avenues first including checking a well-known private 
sales brochure  which suggested she could receive around £10,500  and approaching a 
dealership who she says offered £9,500. She also says she didnt accept the first offer made 
by the online service and negotiated the higher payment of £10,887.66 before accepting.
Ive thought carefully about both sides perspectives here. I accept that Miss S could 
potentially have recovered a higher amount selling the car privately. But equally, theres no 
guarantee she could have done so. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable of 
her to use the online service. I say this because she was unexpectedly left with two cars, 
one of which she was paying for on finance. So, I think its understandable that she would 
want to sell the recovered car as quickly and conveniently as possible. And ultimately, had 
Advantage not indicated that it was settling her claim at the time it did, or had it given better 
explanations at the time, then I dont think Miss S would have been in the position of needing 
to sell the car at all.
So, while I accept that Advantage acted in line with a strict interpretation of the terms and 
conditions of the policy, when it elected to repair the car, I dont think its overall handling of 
the claim delivers a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint. In 
order to do so, I think Advantage should pay Miss S the difference between the amount she 
received from the sale of her car and the amount it offered when it led her to believe it was 
issuing a settlement for the total loss of her car. 
Our investigator said this would amount to £972.34, after Advantage deducted the policy 
excess. However, its since become apparent that Miss S paid the £200 policy excess when 
her car was repaired. So, it wouldnt be reasonable for Advantage to deduct it again. This 
means the amount Advantage should pay Miss S is £1,172.34. And to this amount, 
Advantage should also add 8% interest from the date Miss S sold her car to the date of 
settlement. This is to compensate her for being deprived of the opportunity to use these 
funds for something else.To be clear, Im not directing Advantage to declare the car a total loss as this would likely 
have repercussions for the person who bought it from Miss S. But Advantage should pay the 
above amount in order to deliver a fair and reasonable outcome to her complaint.
Prior to our services involvement, Advantage had already offered Miss S £150 to 
compensate for the distress and inconvenience it accepted it had caused her through delays 
and communication issues. Taking everything that happened into account, I think this 
amount is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Miss S complaint. 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must:
pay Miss S financial loss of £1,172.34 plus add 8%* simple interest from the date 
Miss S was out of pocket until the date she is reimbursed, and
pay Miss S a total of £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, 
if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman