Complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) acted 
irresponsibly when they allowed him to open a credit card account. 
Background
Mr C has a credit card account with Barclays but feels that the card shouldnt have been 
approved because when he applied for the credit card he had no form of income and was 
having gambling issues. Mr C feels that Barclays didnt carry out sufficient checks when he 
applied for the credit card account which led to him to getting into debt and affected his 
credit rating. Mr C feels the outstanding balance and charges should be refunded and his 
credit file amended. 
Barclays says that when Mr C applied for the credit card he stated a level of income that 
justified the credit card limit given. Barclays says that credit checks were carried out and 
these showed there was no adverse information. Barclays says they have done nothing 
wrong and the charges made to his account are in line with the terms and conditions of the 
credit card account.  Mr C was unhappy with their response and referred the matter to this 
service. 
The investigator gathered all of the relevant information but didnt uphold the complaint as he 
felt that Barclays had acted responsibly when it approved the credit card account. The 
investigator said that Barclays had carried out an appropriate level of checks and had acted 
fairly applying the account charges. The investigator said the level of credit provided was 
manageable in relation to the income and expenditure profile Mr C had stated on his 
application for the credit card account.
Mr C wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator and I will explain 
how I have come to my decision.
When considering Mr Cs complaint I have looked at whether Barclays should have done 
more before they granted the credit card facility to Mr C.  I have also considered whether the 
charges Barclays applied to Mr Cs credit card account were fair and reasonable.
Mr C says that Barclays shouldnt have provided him with a credit card account as he had no 
form of income and if the credit card company had checked his Barclays bank account it 
DRN-1563798would have confirmed this.  Mr C said that he also had gambling issues and that was the 
primary use of the credit card.  From the information I have seen Barclays did carry out 
credit checks and these didnt show any adverse credit issues. In the application form, 
completed by Mr C, he declared a level of income Barclays believed to be proportionate to 
the level of credit provided  in this case £250.
When considering this I am satisfied an appropriate level of checks were carried out, relative 
to the amount of credit provided. I would only expect to see a more in depth income and 
expenditure profile if Mr C had been looking for more substantial credit over a longer term  
in which case Barclays would need to evidence affordability of the debt was sustainable. 
This is not the case here - the level of credit provided was based on information provided by 
Mr C and was appropriate to that. Barclays do not have free access to any related bank 
account and I am satisfied for this level of credit it wasnt necessary to ask for this, given the 
checks it carried out. 
I was sorry to hear that Mr C has gambling issues and that has contributed to his financial 
problems. Having said that, gambling is a legitimate form of expenditure and Mr C hasnt 
provided any evidence to show that he had made Barclays aware of this or he was 
experiencing financial difficulties. I have looked at the credit card statements and while they 
show examples of the account exceeding the limit, equally the account was regularly funded 
and, from what I have seen, I am satisfied the level and type of activity on the account 
wouldnt have alerted Barclays of any serious financial difficulties. After all, it is not for 
Barclays, or any other bank, to tell its customers what they can spend their money on.   
A large element of the debt consists of charges for late payments and interest and this has 
increased partly because Mr C stopped making payments to the credit card account. While it 
is disappointing for Mr C to see his level of debt rise like this, I am satisfied that Barclays 
have charged this fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
I have seen a number of letters from Barclays asking Mr C to contact them and advising him 
of the consequences of failing to make payments on time including it advising appropriate 
credit reference agencies. The letters also make clear it is important he contacts them as 
they may be able to help with a debt management plan if he couldnt make the full 
repayment. On balance, I am satisfied that Barclays acted reasonably here and it had a 
responsibility to record factual information to the appropriate credit agencies. I can also see 
that Barclays directed Mr C to debt charities that may have been able to help him - this is 
what I would expect to see here.
I know Mr C will be unhappy with my decision, but it follows I wont be asking anymore of 
Barclays here. 
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5August2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman