DRN-4102891
The complaint
Mr C and Ms J complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Bank of Ireland Mortgages, 
provided them misinformation about their buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage, causing them to lose 
out as a result.
What happened
Mr C and Ms J complained to Bank of Ireland after they attempted to fix a new interest rate 
on their BTL mortgage. In a call with Bank of Ireland on 11 August 2022, Mr C hoped to fix a 
new five-year rate for his and Ms Js mortgage, having booked this appointment in an earlier 
call on 3 August. It was explained at this point that Mr C and Ms Js mortgage could only 
have a fixed rate applied if their mortgage was changed to a new mortgage account number 
and this would entail a full mortgage conveyance to set up the new account. This was 
because it had been set up previously on an old Bank of Ireland system.
Bank of Ireland explained it would cover all of the cost associated with the mortgage 
conveyance process but this was the only way a new fixed rate product could be arranged.
Mr C explained he has no access to the correspondence address as he and Ms J were 
residing outside of the UK at the time and they had not organised a forwarding service from 
their UK address. And they didnt want to change their correspondence address to where 
they were based at the time. Mr C and Ms J were not back in the UK until December 2022 
and said they were unable to do anything until this point if they needed to receive post and 
return signed documents. 
The adviser Mr C spoke with said hed look to see what could happen in terms of any 
workaround that might be available. He raised a complaint and put down that Mr C and 
Ms Js desired outcome would be to take a rate from August 2022 but deal with the 
paperwork that was required on their return to the UK in December 2022. No full application 
was completed and Mr C and Ms J waited to hear the outcome of their complaint and their 
desired resolution.
Bank of Ireland responded to the complaint and said it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong.  They felt it had provided correct information in its calls with Mr C and Ms J and they 
had not been misinformed about having options to fix their rate online or that there was the 
option to complete this process without needing to return signed documents.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and listened to all phone calls Mr C had with Bank 
of Ireland. She didnt think Bank of Ireland needed to do anything else based on the 
information it had provided previously. She didnt think it had made any promises about Mr C 
and Ms J being able to fix their mortgage online. Nor did she think Bank of Ireland gave an 
indication in their calls that any quoted rates were available for a certain amount of time.
Mr C and Ms J disagreed with our investigators outcome and asked that the complaint be 
reviewed by an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr C and Ms J will be disappointed by this outcome, but Ive decided not to uphold 
their complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator.
The focus of this complaint is whether, in a phone call with an adviser on 11 August 2022, 
Bank of Ireland said a rate could be honoured in December 2022. Mr C and Ms J believe 
they were told this was the case and the adviser said this would happen. Having listened to 
the call-in question, I am satisfied this is not what was said. 
The adviser acknowledged that Mr C felt he had a wasted appointment call with him as he 
didnt think he would be able to complete the paperwork based on his correspondence 
address and having no access to this. And Mr C had proceeded with the call and repaid 
arrears on the BTL mortgage balance ahead of this to allow them the option to look at fixed 
rate products. The adviser apologised if any information had been provided earlier which 
was incorrect but explained the only way Mr C and Ms J could fix a rate on their mortgage 
was to effectively re-mortgage with a full mortgage conveyance process. This was because 
their existing product was on a legacy system and it meant they had no option to complete a 
rate switch online.
The adviser said he would set up the complaint and that Mr C and Ms J, would like to have 
any rate available now (in August 2022), available to them in December 2022 as they are 
unable to complete any paperwork ahead of this because of their circumstances. Mr C 
expressed his gratitude at the adviser understanding what his desired outcome was and it 
might be he was under the belief this is what was being offered. But this is not what was 
offered and so I dont think any false promise was made about the options available.
Bank of Ireland sent its final response in September 2022 and explained why it didnt think it 
had done anything wrong and it set out again the only option Mr C and Ms J had to proceed 
with a rate switch was via an appointment with an adviser and a postal application. It asked 
Mr C and Ms J to contact them if they wished to proceed with this. I think this set out clearly 
again to Mr C and Ms J what they needed to do if they wanted to proceed. I acknowledge 
they didnt have their UK correspondence address set up to have post forwarded on, nor did 
they want to update their correspondence address to their current location, but this was a 
choice they made and it doesnt mean Bank of Ireland was acting unfairly when it said the 
process it needed to follow relied on post being sent and returned. 
Bank of Ireland has not treated Mr C and Ms J differently to any other customer who had a 
mortgage on the legacy system when saying a new application was needed to move this to a 
new fixed rate product or that this needed to be done in the way Ive described. It follows that 
I dont think theyve been treated unfairly when told this was their only option. 
In some of the earlier conversations Mr C had with Bank of Ireland, some of the agents he 
spoke with said there might be an option to send everything electronically. This was not 
correct as there was no option but I dont think this means Bank of Ireland need to do 
anything else now. An application could not have been made until Mr C or Ms J spoke with a 
specialist BTL adviser and at this point, the correct process was explained as well as the 
rates available at the time. Mr C was offered the option to have his correspondence address 
updated but he declined this option and instead a complaint was raised. Because of this the 
application wasnt completed and no offer was produced to be sent out and accepted but I 
dont think this was the fault of Bank of Ireland.Overall, Ive not seen anything to demonstrate Bank of Ireland needs to take any further 
action. I understand the volatility of the mortgage market since Mr C spoke with Bank of 
Ireland means they feel they have lost out with comparable rates now being very different. 
But I dont think it is fair to say Bank of Ireland made any false promises or stopped Mr C 
and Ms J completing an application to fix their rate sooner. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr C and Ms Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman