DRN-4027447
The complaint
Mr D complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined his dental insurance claim. My 
references to AXA PPP include its agents.
What happened
Mr D has group medical insurance which includes cover for some dental treatments. The 
policy also covers his wife and children. Mr D told AXA PPP, the insurer, that he wanted to 
claim for private dental treatment for his son.
AXA PPP reviewed the referral letter for the treatment and declined the claim as it said the 
treatment wasnt covered under the policy terms. The referral said the treatment was an 
exposure and bond of a buried tooth. AXA PPP said the policy covers the removal of buried 
teeth but not re-positioning.
AXA PPP acknowledged that Mr D didnt receive a call back as should have happened and 
paid him £50 compensation for his distress and inconvenience due to its poor service.
Mr D complained to us. In summary he said:
His son was referred by his dentist due to needing braces and during a consultation 
the orthodontist had seen that his son had a baby tooth and the adult tooth was 
buried and facing horizontally. He said his son required dental surgery to remove the 
baby tooth and expose the impacted tooth.
His policy covered buried teeth. Hed called AXA PPP in late September 2022 to 
double check cover and its representative told him buried teeth were covered but it 
needed to see a dentists referral for the exact treatment his son needed so it could 
confirm cover.
In the same call he asked AXA PPP if there was anywhere he could see which 
treatment codes were covered under the policy so he could check cover. That 
representative said there wasnt anywhere and he should just obtain the referral. He 
didnt think AXA PPP was being transparent about cover .
When he sent AXA PPP the referral letter it told him the treatment wasnt covered, 
when he asked why he was referred to the dental escalations team who promised to 
call him within 48 hours but that didnt happen. AXA PPP did call back later and 
another representative said the policy did cover buried teeth but all claims were 
subject to review. That representative told him where to find the treatment codes but 
that was only after AXA PPP decided not to cover the claim.
He considers the policy wording is mis-leading as it says theres covers for buried 
teeth with no detail about when there wasnt cover which enabled AXA PPP to decide 
what to cover.
He wants AXA PPP to pay his claim for the treatments costs, interest on those costs 
and compensation for the time and cost he spent on calls with AXA PPP.
Our investigator said AXA PPP reasonably declined the claim and the £50 compensation it 
paid for Mr Ds distress and inconvenience due to its poor service was fair.
Mr D disagrees and wants an ombudmans decision. He said it was too convenient for 
AXA PPP that it couldnt find the relevant September call and AXA PPP had intentionally 
mis-led him about cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
I think AXA PPP reasonably declined the claim and its compensation payment for its service 
issue was fair. I dont uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
The policy says:
If you have the Extra Care Option, we will cover the following types of oral 
surgery when you are referred for treatment by a dentist:
reinserting your own teeth after an injury
removing impacted teeth, buried teeth and complicated buried roots
removal of cysts of the jaw (sometimes called enucleation).
Mr Ds policy certificate shows that he had the Extra Care Option cover but that doesnt 
mean all dental treatment is covered. AXA PPP can choose what treatment it wants to cover 
but needs to make the treatment it covers clear in the policy. Im satisfied the policy is clear 
that cover is limited to the specified treatments listed above and the policy says there is 
cover for removing buried teeth.
The referral letter from the orthodontist says treatment was needed for exposure and 
positioning of a gold chain on the ectopic upper left 3.
From the referral letter AXA PPPs dental team understood the treatment required exposure 
of the buried tooth to attach a chain to it to reposition it with braces. The buried tooth didnt 
need to be removed. The policy only covers removal of buried teeth so I think AXA PPP 
reasonably decided the treatment wasnt covered by the policy terms and conditions.
Ive also considered whether it was fair and reasonable for AXA PPP to decline the claim. 
Mr D said when he called AXA PPP at the end of September 2022 its representative told him 
buried teeth were covered. AXA PPP hasnt been able to find that call in its records. But 
even if the representative did wrongly tell Mr D that all treatment for buried teeth was 
covered Mr D told us that during the call the representative also told him that before it could 
confirm cover he would need to obtain a dentist referral so it could see the exact treatment 
being recommended. So in that call AXA PPP wasnt guaranteeing cover, it told Mr D it 
would only give a decision about cover once it saw the referral letter detailing the required 
treatment. I dont think AXA PPP mis-led him about cover.The policy says treatment is only covered when referred by a dentist. I think AXA PPP acted 
within the policy terms and reasonably in telling Mr D that it could only confirm whether his 
sons treatment was covered once it had received and reviewed the referral detailing the 
treatment. 
Mr D says different AXA PPP representatives gave him contrary information about whether 
he could see a list of eligible procedure codes online. Mr D was annoyed by the contrary 
information but it doesnt alter that AXA PPP reasonably declined the claim. Mr D might have 
been able to look up and correctly interpret the procedure codes but AXA PPP had clearly 
told Mr D that its decision about cover would depend on what the referral letter said about 
the required treatment.
Im satisfied that AXA PPP fairly and reasonably declined the claim, so it doesnt have to pay 
for the treatment.
AXA PPP told Mr D its claim decision within three days of receipt of the referral letter which 
is a reasonable timescale. Its complaints team call with Mr D and AXA PPPs final response 
letter were all within a reasonable timescale.
AXA PPP accepts that it didnt correctly manage Mr Ds expectations about when it would 
call him and I think its payment of £50 compensation for his distress and inconvenience due 
to that service issue was reasonable. Theres no basis for me to say AXA PPP should pay 
Mr D any more compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman