DRN-2964747
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs D have complained on behalf of the estate of the late Ms J. They complain that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt let them open an executors account without a branch 
appointment, when they couldnt reasonably attend the branch. 
What happened
In 2019, Ms J unfortunately passed away. Barclays offered their condolences and sent over 
a closure form to fill in, which would allow them to close Ms Js accounts and disburse the 
funds. They said the executors could open an executors account as well if they wanted, 
though theyd need to do so in branch.
In 2020, Mr J and Mrs D tried opening an executors account, but explained they couldnt 
attend the branch because Mr Js partner was extremely vulnerable and had to shield in view 
of the pandemic. Mr J had already been set up with Barclays to have power of attorney for 
the late Ms J in the past, and Barclays were in contact with their solicitors who could verify 
their identity. But Barclays insisted that the account could only be opened in a branch, 
despite the potential risk to Mr Js wife. The account was not opened.
The executors complained, but Barclays closed the complaint and claimed theyd come to an 
agreed outcome on the phone, which they had not. Barclays apologised for this and offered 
£25 compensation, but reiterated it was their policy that an executors account had to be 
opened in a branch regardless of the health risk.
In the meantime, Barclays paid out funds for the funeral costs as requested. Barclays also 
chased the solicitors for the closure form. In the end, the form was submitted in October 
2020 and Barclays disbursed the late Ms Js funds shortly after.
Our investigator looked into things independently. They explained that they agreed Mr J and 
Mrs Ds arguments were valid and understood the basis of their complaint. But they 
explained we could not award compensation to an estates representatives, and could not 
make Barclays change their processes.
Mr J and Mrs D asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand where Mr J and Mrs D are coming from in bringing this complaint. Mr J had a 
perfectly good reason to not go to a branch; Barclays were aware of the potential health 
risks and the government guidelines around keeping safe; and I would think there were a 
number of reasonable alternatives Barclays could have used to verify Mr J instead of solely 
via a branch appointment.
For example, Barclays were already dealing with the executors solicitors, who could verify 
their identity and certify the necessary documents. Mr J was already registered with Barclays 
as Ms Js power of attorney, and only needed to update his ID. Further, other firms used 
processes involving things like video calls in order to verify customers remotely.
Indeed, Barclays would normally need to have alternative methods of verification for other 
customers who cannot come into branch  such as customers with certain disabilities or 
vulnerabilities. I wouldnt normally expect customers in such situations to have to come into 
a branch where it wouldnt be practical  or perhaps even safe  for them to do so.
Even if it may not have been Barclays normal process, I would imagine that Barclays were 
quite capable of adequately verifying Mr J and Mrs D without specifically needing them to 
both come into a branch. And Barclays knew that Mr J had good reason to not be able to 
come into a branch. Sometimes, a bank may need to depart from its normal process to 
achieve a fair outcome for a customer.
The problem here is that I can only award compensation to an eligible complainant  usually 
the business customer. Barclays customer  and the eligible complainant in this case  is 
the late Ms J. Mr J and Mrs D are not eligible complainants in their own right  in this case 
they are operating in their capacity as representatives of Ms Js estate. So I can only award 
compensation for an error by Barclays if it directly impacted Ms J while she was alive, or if it 
disadvantaged her estate after she passed.
That means that I cannot tell Barclays to take any action, nor award any compensation for 
any stress or inconvenience caused to the executors here in their own right. Instead, I can 
only look at the impact Barclays actions may have had on Ms Js estate.
Mr J and Mrs D suggested that their troubles in opening the executors account led to a 
delay in disbursing Ms Js funds. They suggested that Barclays were deliberately withholding 
Ms Js money in order to keep the interest. But I cant see that that was the case. The 
executors account was not necessary for disbursing Ms Js funds  it was just an extra 
facility that Barclays offered. Barclays only needed the relevant closure form and other 
documents (such as the grant of probate) in order to close Ms Js accounts and pay out the 
funds. And Barclays actively chased the estates solicitors to get this. Then once Barclays 
received the completed and signed form along with the relevant documents, they disbursed 
the funds in good time  including the interest that had accrued. They also paid the relevant 
funeral costs as instructed. This wasnt affected by the issues with the executors account 
and I cant see that the estate lost out due to any error or delay on Barclays part.
This leaves me in a difficult position. While I can see some of the issues the executors faced 
here as a result of Barclays actions, the only significant impact I can see this had was on the 
representatives of Ms Js estate, and not on the estate itself. So I cant award any 
compensation here.Mr J and Mrs D asked if we could make Barclays change their processes going forward. 
While I understand the basis for this request, thats not something our service has the power 
to do in general. We cant make a business change its processes  we only have the power 
to look at individual complaints. Its the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (or FCA for 
short) who regulates businesses and their processes more widely. Mr J and Mrs D can 
contact them, though Im afraid they dont normally comment on individual situations. They 
do, however, look at the data from the complaints we deal with.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything further 
in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms J 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman