DRN-1793898
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy shortly after applying for a mortgage with NatWest in 
1998. They paid a monthly premium of around £36 for the policy. The PPI covered Mr S 
against being unable to work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. In the event of 
a successful claim the policy benefit was £700 per month and could have been paid for up to 
12 months.
In 2006 Mr S made a successful claim on the policy and received £2,216.60.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs S complained to NatWest that the policy was mis-sold. Unhappy with 
NatWests response, they asked this service to step in.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive first looked at whether its likely Mr and Mrs S were given a fair choice about whether to 
buy the policy.
NatWest has been able to show us some of the paperwork completed at the time of the 
mortgage.
I can see the mortgage application was made in July 1998. Ive seen a copy of the mortgage 
offer dated August 1998 and the mortgage offer shows that Mr and Mrs S had not applied for 
the PPI at that point. The offer states that NatWest recommend they consider taking out PPI 
cover.
I note the application for PPI has been completed by hand and signed by Mr S on 11 
September 1998.
This shows that Mr and Mrs S had received an offer of the mortgage without PPI and chose 
to take it out afterwards. So I think they would have been aware the policy was optional and 
they had a choice over whether to take it out or not.
Mr S has said NatWest may have pressured them to apply for the PPI. Pressure is quite 
subjective and what one person perceives as pressure, another may not. Taking into account the paperwork from the time Ive not seen enough persuasive evidence for me to 
uphold the complaint on this point.
Although the mortgage application recommends Mr and Mrs S consider taking the cover, 
from experience, I am aware that NatWest generally did not offer mortgage applicants a 
personal, tailored recommendation to take out PPI at that time. And Ive not seen any 
evidence that it did so here. So it didnt have to ensure the policy was right for Mr and Mrs S. 
But it did still have to give them clear information about the policy so they could decide for 
themselves if it was right for them.
I dont know what information was given to Mr and Mrs S at the meeting. Mr and Mrs S have 
said they cant recall details of what was discussed. So it could be that NatWest did not give 
them all the information it should have done. But thats not enough to uphold this complaint. I 
next need to decide whether or not Mr and Mrs S would have changed their minds about 
buying the policy if they had been given better or clearer information.
I cant say they would have done. I say this for the following reasons.
The policy was taken out to cover Mr S only.
Mr S was eligible for the cover so any better information about the eligibility criteria would not 
have put him off buying it. The policy contained some exclusions, for instance it didnt cover 
existing medical conditions. But Mr S wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions so again, 
any better information about the policy exclusions is unlikely to have made him act differently 
and decline the policy.
The policy could have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Mr S had become unable 
to work through sickness or an accident. This is likely to have been longer than Mr S would 
have received sick pay from his employer. So he would have found the policy useful if he 
had not been able to work. Particularly if he wasnt able to work for a prolonged period of 
time.
It is unclear from the paperwork if the monthly premium was made clear at the time of the 
sale. But Ive not seen any evidence that the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs S and I 
note they continued to pay the premiums for many years. So I dont think any better 
information about the premiums would have put them off buying the policy.
In their response to the adjudicator Mr and Mrs S have said they may not have bought the 
policy if they were made aware of the commission levels. Ive thought about this.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008.
Mr and Mrs S mortgage does not fall within these dates so these rules do not apply here. 
And in any event, as I have already stated, the premiums appear to have been affordable 
and Mr and Mrs S continued with the policy for many years, so in my view any better 
information about the policy cost and how it was made up, is unlikely to have changed their 
mind about buying the policy.
In summary, I think Mr and Mrs S were given a fair choice about whether to buy the policy 
and they chose to take it out. Ive not seen enough persuasive evidence to find that Mr and 
Mrs S were unfairly pressured into taking the PPI. And even if they were given clearer 
information about the policy and its cost, I still think they would have bought it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and make no award against National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman