DRN-2911498
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1991. Mr and Mrs D paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr D, in case he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
Having done that, I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was three decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. So its 
completely understandable that neither side still have the original documents from the sale. 
Indeed, under data protection rules Nationwide was required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Ds 
data rather than hold onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to 
have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very seriously failing for Nationwide to have misled Mr and Mrs D into 
having PPI. And I have no evidence which shows thats what it did here. Nor have I seen any 
wider problems with its sales process from the time. And this sale was too long ago for me to 
reasonably require Nationwide to be able to produce evidence from the time to defend itself 
now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that Nationwide misled Mr and Mrs D 
 theres nothing which substantiates that. I think its more likely that Nationwide followed a 
relatively normal sales process, where it offered a choice and Mr and Mrs D chose PPI at the 
time  though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether Nationwide recommended the PPI for Mr D, or not. The requirements 
were stricter on Nationwide if it did recommend it  so to be as fair to Mr and Mrs D as 
possible, Ill assess things as if it did. That would mean Nationwide had to check the policy 
was right for Mr D  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it 
most likely was.
For example, it looks like Mr D was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. The policy would have paid out on top of Mr Ds work benefits 
and most likely offered him more comprehensive cover, paying out for up to two years in any 
one claim. It also meant that Mr and Mrs D could effectively protect any savings they had, 
instead of potentially needing to sacrifice one asset to save another. I understand that Mr 
and Mrs D may have had other policies, such as an endowment policy, but that was for 
different things than the PPI and was not an alternative to PPI. I also understand that Mr D 
felt secure in his career, but accidents, illnesses, and long-term redundancies can and do 
happen, even in situations that feel secure at the time. And its worth bearing in mind that if 
Mr and Mrs D fell behind on their mortgage, they couldve lost their home. Overall, it looks 
like the PPI could have been useful for them in protecting their home.
Its possible that the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs D about PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr D wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful in case something went 
wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And 
the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs D could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put them off 
taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mr and Mrs D pointed out that weve found many other PPI policies to have been mis-
sold, and I understand why they raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, 
were suitable in different circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, 
and so on. So while some policies were mis-sold, others were not. We look at each case on 
its individual merits. And Ive explained above why, in this case, Ive not found this particular 
policy to have been mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman