DRN-3394083
The complaint
Mrs F says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, lent to her
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs F took out an instalment loan from ELL in 2017, and again in 2019. She complained to
the lender that they were unaffordable and so mis-sold. ELL rejected her complaint, so Mrs F
brought a complaint about the second loan to this service. She did not dispute the lenders
decision about loan 1.
Loan 2 was taken out on 27 April 2019. It was for £5,000 over 36 months. The monthly
repayment was £311.12 and the total repayable was £11,200.32. Mrs F says ELLs checks
were not thorough enough, the second loan drove her into more debt as she had to take out
other loans to get by and was always overdrawn.
The investigator did not uphold Mrs Fs complaint. She found checks for both loans were
proportionate, and ELL made fair lending decisions.
Mrs F disagreed. She said she had not complained to us about loan 1 and didnt dispute that
finding. But for loan 2 she said her income and expenditure figures didnt match the
investigators and her actual disposable income was much lower. She had taken out a new
credit card just before this loan and a large loan with a sister company of this lender at the
end of October 2018. She asked why the lender relied on statistical data for her expenditure
when it had actual data from her bank statements.
Mrs F asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and so it was passed to me. As
there is no dispute between the parties about loan 1, and Mrs F has been clear it isnt part of
the complaint she wants us to investigate, I focused only on loan 2. I reached a different 
conclusion to the investigator, so I issued a provisional decision. An extract follows and 
forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send any comments and new 
evidence by 22 March 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision
ELL asked for some information from Mrs F before it approved the loan. It asked for details
of her income and estimated her monthly costs using national statistics. It checked her
salary against bank statements. It reviewed her credit file to understand her credit history
and existing commitments. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which was for a
wedding. From these checks combined ELL concluded that Mrs F had enough monthly
disposable income to afford the loan.
I agree with the investigator that the checks ELL completed were proportionate, but I dont
think it reacted appropriately to the data it gathered when it made its lending decision. Ill
explain why.
For its affordability assessment ELL used national statistics to estimate Mrs Fs expenses.
Whilst this can be a fair approach in certain circumstances, as Mrs F had provided bank
statements I would expect ELL to use these to verify her expenses. The copies I have show
transfers to a second account which Mrs F explains was a joint account used for bills  and
that ELL had online sight of when she was applied in its branch.
I have no copy of what this showed ELL, but I can see that her essential living expenses
combined with the transfers to the joint account were in excess of the assumption ELL used
for her living costs. So I would have expected ELL to react to this information it gathered and
ensure it understood Mrs Fs actual living costs. Mrs F says had it done so it would have
seen her total monthly expenditure was around £350 higher than the figure it was using,
making the loan unaffordable.
As I cant know with certainty which bank statements ELL had access to at the point of
application (the evidence it submitted suggests it was the two months prior to application for
Mrs Fs sole name account) I dont intend to set out what it should have calculated Mrs Fs
actual costs to be  suffice to say in the circumstances of this application it should have used
actuals and made sure it understood the inter-account transfers. From Mrs Fs testimony it
seems most likely this would have led it to calculate a much lower level of disposable
income. However I wont comment further on this as I think there is a more critical reason
ELL should not have lent to Mrs F.
Mrs F used loan 2 to repay loan 1 and the remaining funds were for a wedding. From the
credit check it completed ELL knew Mrs F would have ongoing monthly credit commitments
of around £485. This was already a significant percentage of her monthly income (based on
the £1,735 ELL used). By giving loan 2 ELL was increasing the amount of monthly income
Mrs F would need to use to manage her debts to around 45% of her income. I think from this
ELL ought to have realised there was a risk Mrs F would be unable to make her repayments
sustainably over a three-year period. It could already see that her overall indebtedness had
increased from £1,597 when she applied for loan 1 to £8,163 at the time of this application.
So I find there were signs that Mrs F was starting to struggle financially, and that any further
borrowing would most likely be harmful to her.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give loan 2 to Mrs F.
I havent seen any evidence that ELL acted unfairly towards Mrs F in any other way. 
I then set out what ELL would need to do to put things right if I went on to uphold the 
complaint. 
Both parties responded. ELL accepted my provisional decision. Mrs F re-iterated she had 
explained in previous emails that ELL could have reviewed her joint account in the branch 
and not only review her primary account.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
I note Mrs Fs point that ELL could have reviewed her joint account statements but its failure 
to do so does not impact my conclusion as I am already upholding her complaint for the 
reasons as set out above.As neither party supplied any new evidence, I have no reason to change the findings or 
outcome set out in my provisional decision. It follows I find ELL was wrong to give loan 2 to 
Mrs F.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mrs F to have repaid the capital amount that she borrowed as she had
the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been given to her. So she has lost out and ELL needs to put things right.
It should:
Refund all the interest and charges on loan 2  so add up the total Mrs F repaid and
deduct the sum from the capital amount.
If reworking Mrs Fs loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mrs Fs loan account results in an outstanding capital balance, ELL
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs F.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Fs credit file in relation to 
loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mrs F a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Fs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday 
Loans must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman