DRN-3664619
The complaint
Mr V says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) gave him a line of credit he couldnt afford to 
repay.  Mr V went on to say that Drafty didnt carry out appropriate affordability checks and 
therefore failed to identify he was stuck in a cycle of borrowing.
What happened
Mr V approached Drafty for a running credit facility in October 2021. Mr V was initially given 
a facility with a £1,000 credit limit. Mr Vs credit limit was increased on two occasions and by 
February 2022 Mr Vs credit limit stood at £1,900. Drafty has confirmed, that as of May 2022 
Mr V still owed Drafty £2,051. 
Mr V was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to his limit. He was also 
able to borrow further, up to his credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed.  To be 
clear, Mr V was not given a payday loan. 
In Draftys first final response letter (in May 2022) it explained the information it gathered 
from Mr V before it approved the facility. It concluded, given the estimated monthly 
repayment of around £67, Mr V was likely to be able to afford his credit facility. 
Drafty also provided details of the times it asked Mr V to check his income and expenditure 
with it in March 2022. And even when Mr Vs disposable income remained the same and his 
expenditure had slightly increased, Draftys opinion was he still had enough money to be 
able to afford the facility. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Vs complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried
out before initially granting this facility were proportionate and showed Drafty Mr V was likely 
to be able to afford the payment amount based on the hypothetical payment schedule in
Mr Vs credit agreement. So, she didnt think it was wrong to have initially approved the 
facility.
However, the adjudicator, pointed out that in addition to taking reasonable steps to ensure 
the facility was affordable at the outset, Drafty also had an obligation to monitor the ongoing 
use of the facility. Having reviewed, the way Mr V borrowed and repaid the facility, she 
thought, based on the checks Drafty carried out at the start of the facility as well as the way 
he had used the facility that it was reasonable for Drafty to have increased the credit limit to 
£1,450 in January 2022. 
However, the adjudicator thought that it wasnt reasonable for Drafty to have increased the 
credit limit again in February 2022 to £1,900 without any further checks being carried out 
because of the way he had used the facility and the large increase in the limit. So, Drafty 
needed to have verified what Mr Vs finances. 
Mr V provided the adjudicator with copies of his bank statements from around this time. The 
adjudicator could see that Mr V, at the time of the second credit limit increase that he was 
repaying at least four other high-cost short term loan providers. In addition, the adjudicator 
could see Mr V was spending significant sums each month on online betting websites.
 
The adjudicator concluded that had Drafty carried out further checks at the second credit 
limit increase it wouldve likely discovered that Mr V was likely having financial difficulties 
and so further lending wasnt sustainable to him. And so, from 19 February 2022 Drafty 
needed to treat Mr V with forbearance and due consideration which wouldve included not 
allowing Mr V to continue to drawdown on the facility. In addition  the interest on the facility 
ought to have been frozen at this point.  
The adjudicator said she only had limited information but that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable (given Draftys regulatory obligation) to refuse to enter negotiations with Mr V 
about setting up a repayment plan. 
In order to put things right for Mr V, she asked Drafty to remove all the interest, fees and 
charges from the current outstanding balance that had been applied from 19 February 2022 
onwards, rework the account as if payments from this date went towards the capital and 
finally Drafty needed to remove any adverse information reported on Mr Vs credit file from 
19 February 2022. 
Drafty responded to the adjudicator and partly agreed with the assessment. Drafty accepted 
that the complaint should be upheld from 19 February 2022. However, it only offered to 
refund the interest, fees and charges added to any new drawdowns from this date (rather 
than the whole balance as the adjudicator had recommended). 
This meant, Mr V would receive a refund of £21.24 (after tax), and information from Mr Vs 
credit file would be removed. Once the deductions from the outstanding balance had taken 
place Mr V would still owe Drafty £2,075.26.
Drafty went on to say that as the agreed uphold point was 19 February 2022 it was its 
understanding that any credit advanced to Mr V before this date was deemed affordable. 
Therefore, the calculations are only based on any interest which was paid on drawdowns 
made after this date. Drafty says it is entitled to collect the principal as well as any interest 
on drawdowns made prior to the uphold date. 
It also offered to set up a payment arrangement with Mr V to enable him to repay the 
outstanding balance. However, Drafty explained that if a repayment plan was set up that 
information will be recorded with the credit reference agencies and if he didnt keep to any 
plan that may be agreed this could lead to the account being passed to a third party 
collection agency. 
This offer was put to Mr V but he didnt agree with the offer Drafty had made. He said;
£2412.78 is my balance as it stands today. The overall different (sic) between the 
final agreement is going to be nominal. Realistically I can pay no more than £50 a 
month which was where all this saga started.
The adjudicator went back to Mr V and let him know that even if Drafty had agreed with the 
compensation she had recommended it was likely a significant outstanding balance would 
remain. 
Later on, Mr V told us that he had received a default notice from Drafty. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
In practice, before any lending was advanced, Drafty had to take proportionate steps to 
ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable 
manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had 
to gather enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. Ive kept all of this in 
mind when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to before agreeing to Mr Vs 
Drafty facility. 
As explained, Mr V was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall I think that this 
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand 
whether Mr V would be able to not only service but also repay his facility within a reasonable 
period of time. Draft also needed to monitor Mr Vs repayment record for any signs that he 
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened when Drafty approved the facility
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I do think Draftys checks before
providing this facility to Mr V were proportionate taking account of the circumstances.
Mr V was granted a facility with Drafty with a £1,000. In the credit agreement, a hypothetical 
repayment schedule assuming the full amount was borrowed, is laid out to show the 
potential cost of the facility to Mr V. This hypothetical situation assumed that Mr V did the 
following:
1. drew down his maximum credit limit on the first day of the facility being provided, 
2. he kept to the terms of the agreement and
3. Mr V repaid what he owed in 12 monthly installments.
Had Mr V done that, hed have repaid Drafty a total of £1,355.87 meaning a total monthly 
repayment of around £112.98.  
So, in these circumstances, I think Drafty needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate
checks to understand whether Mr V could make monthly repayments of around £113 at an 
absolute minimum.
The information provided does suggest that Mr V was asked to provide details of his 
declared income of £2,946.10 and declared expenditure of £1,150. This left Mr V with 
disposable income of just over £1,796 per month to service and repay the facility. 
Drafty also carried out a credit check before the facility was granted, and it has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results. Based on this, it was aware that Mr V had one default recorded on his credit file, but this had been reported almost four years 
before the facility was granted. In my view that wouldnt have been a concern for Drafty and 
not enough to have prompted it to have carried out further checks before granting the facility. 
I accept Mr Vs actual financial position may not have been reflected either in the
information provided, or the information Drafty obtained. But Drafty could only make its
decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
At this stage of the lending relationship between the parties i.e., being a new customer, I 
dont think proportionate checks wouldve extended into Drafty asking Mr V to evidence 
about what he was declaring, such as asking him for his bank statements. So overall I dont 
think that Drafty treated Mr V unfairly or unreasonably when it initially provided his with an 
open-ended credit facility in October 2021.
Ive also thought about the first credit limit increase and given the way the facility had been 
managed up to this point in time, I think it was just about reasonable for Drafty to have 
believed that Mr V would be able to accommodate the minimum payment due under the new 
credit limit. 
Why I think Drafty shouldnt have provided further funds after 19 February 2022
Although I dont think Drafty was wrong to have initially provided the facility, that wasnt the 
end of its obligations to Mr V. As Ive said above When the facility was approved, Drafty was 
regulated by the FCA, and it issued guidance on this type of lending and what it says should 
be expected from lenders when granting these types of loans.
Within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R says:
(1) A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
But its also worth saying at this point that CONC 1.3 provides a non-exhaustive list of some 
indicators, which when present in a consumers circumstances, could be suggestive of 
potential financial difficulties. 
In practice, CONC 6.7.2(1)R meant Drafty needed to be mindful of Mr Vs repayment record 
and how he used the facility and also step in if and when he showed signs of possible 
repayment difficulties.
Our adjudicator thought Drafty shouldve stepped in and taken action in by 
19 February 2022. By this point, our adjudicator thought that Mr Vs borrowing history 
showed he was potentially reliant on the facility and as his credit limit was increased at this 
time, it wouldve been reasonable for Drafty to have taken additional steps to verify the 
information it had for Mr V to make sure the facility continued to be affordable for him. 
As I said above, had Drafty carried out further checks it wouldve seen he had a number of 
outstanding high-cost credit loans and was spending significant amounts each month of 
gambling transactions. 
Drafty, also accepted, in response to the assessment this this was the point where it was 
agreeing to pay compensation from. 
So there doesnt appear to be any dispute as to when the facility likely became 
unsustainable for Mr V. Buy for the avoidance of doubt, I agree with both the adjudicator and Drafty that at this point it was likely the facility was no longer sustainable for Mr V and at this 
point in time it wouldve been reasonable to have offered Mr V some forbearance. 
I agree with the adjudicators logic here and having looked at the same bank statements she 
did Ive also seen a significant amount of gambling transactions in January 2022  the month 
before the credit limit increase and I can also see a significant amount of outstanding credit 
being owned to a number of different high-cost credit companies. Indeed, at the end of 
January 2022, Mr V took out a loan for £3,000 from a high-cost credit provider. Had Drafty 
carried out a what I consider to be a propitiate check before increasing the credit limit it 
wouldve discovered Mr V couldnt take on any further lending.  
Therefore, Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for 
Mr V while explaining why all the interest charged after the 19 February 2022 needs to be 
refunded. 
Draftys comments in response to the adjudicators assessment
In summary, the dispute here is about how Drafty needs to put things right and what, if any 
compensation may be due to Mr V. Drafty says following a review, it feels it should only have 
to refund any interest, fees and charges connected with any new drawdowns from 
19 February 2022. 
In this case, while there were a number of drawdowns after the credit limit was increased 
this would, according to Draftys proposed calculations provide Mr C with a small refund, 
offset against the balance that is owed.  
Whereas the adjudicator has reached the conclusion that all interest, fees and charges 
should have been stopped from 19 February 2022. 
Drafty, in response to the adjudicator has said: 
Considering the points that have been raised in your assessment letter dated August
11, 2022, we would like to confirm that we agree to refund the interest and charges 
paid towards all drawdowns from February 19, 2022,
To me, this is quite clear, Drafty accepts that from 19 February 2022 further drawdowns 
shouldnt have been allowed and I accept by February 2022, a balance existed that up to 
this point it was reasonable for Drafty to apply the contractual amount of interest. 
However, as Ive detailed above, further checks wouldve changed this position. This is 
because, in my view, proportionate checks would not only have shown that Mr V was not in 
a position to repay any additional funds advanced, but that his significant gambling and other 
use of high-cost credit meant that he was no longer in a position to sustainably repay what 
he already owed Drafty as a result of previous drawdowns.  
I do struggle to understand that Drafty would consider it reasonable for it to have likely 
discovered that Mr V owned a significant amount of money elsewhere and was spending a 
not insignificant amount each month gambling. And had it discovered this, which it ought to 
have done by carrying out a proportionate check, it wouldve felt it reasonable to have 
continued to charge interest on the balance that already existed. The information it wouldve 
seen in February 2022, is clear to me that Mr V was having financial difficulties. 
And only refunding the interest fees and charges on new drawdowns doesnt and wouldnt 
have assisted Mr V which the quite clear financial difficulties he was having. Indeed, this isnt really in line with Draftys obligation to treat Mr V with forbearance and due consideration in 
light of what it would more likely than not have discovered. 
Therefore, while Drafty accepts that the complaint should be upheld from 19 February 2022, 
I do think given what it wouldve likely discovered all of Mr Vs interest, fees and charges 
should have been frozen from that point. This is because, in the circumstances of this case, 
it was clear that he was having wider money management problems. 
Moving forward, even with the redress that Im going to be asking Drafty to pay, a significant 
outstanding balance will likely remain. I would remind Drafty of its obligation to treat Mr V 
fairly and with forbearance when discussing a way forward. 
Mr V has told the Financial Ombudsman Service that previously he tried to set up a 
repayment with Drafty and he says that the amount Drafty wanted him to pay was 
unaffordable for him. 
Id remind Drafty that thinking about CONC 7, and its wider obligations I wouldnt consider it 
fair and reasonable to ask Mr V to pay a monthly sum each month towards the outstanding 
balance if the sum being asked for was unaffordable for him  in my view that wouldnt be 
treating him with forbearance and due consideration. 
Thinking about this, and the reasons why Drafty has upheld the complaint, Ive outlined 
below what Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for Mr V. 
However, given what Mr V has told the Financial Ombudsman about his repayments, it is 
likely, that at the time, had Drafty offered the help I think is fair, there wouldve been some 
adverse information reported on his credit file, so I think the redress should reflect that. 
Putting things right
So having thought about everything Drafty has said, I still think it is fair and reasonable for it 
to refund all interest fees and charges after 19 February 2022, and Ive outlined below what 
it needs to do in order to put things right Drafty should do the following: 
Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from 
19 February 2022
Treat all payments Mr V has made towards his account since 19 February 2022 as 
though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
If at any point Mr V would have been in credit on the account after considering the 
above, Drafty will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is made.
If there is an outstanding principal balance, then Drafty can use any refunds 
calculated to repay this. If a balance remains after this, then Drafty should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr V. 
If an outstanding balance remains on facility once these adjustments have been 
made Drafty should contact Mr V to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. If it 
considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Vs credit file, it should 
reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of taking corrective 
action on the facility in February 2022.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Mr V a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right for Mr V as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman