DRN-3632558
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the settlement of its business interruption insurance claim by Society 
of Lloyd's. The claim was made in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mrs T held an industry specific commercial insurance policy underwritten by Society of 
Lloyds. References to Society of Lloyds in this decision includes the underwriters and their 
agents. The policy provided a number of areas of cover, including business interruption 
under the heading Loss of use and denial of access. This provided, in part, cover for loss of 
income from rentals pre-booked in advance resulting from:  
access to the buildings being restricted or denied following a law, order or decree of 
the Government or of the country in which the premises is situated, which is as a 
result of natural disaster or outbreak of contagious disease or other threat to health
After the COVID-19 pandemic led to the cancellation of bookings at the holiday home, Mrs T 
contacted Society of Lloyds to make a claim under the policy. Society of Lloyds agreed to 
meet the losses in relation to the majority of bookings cancelled, as these related to the 
period between March and July 2020 when the government-imposed restrictions had meant 
Mrs T could not open her holiday home. 
However, Society of Lloyds did not agree to meet losses relating to periods outside those of 
the national lockdowns.
Mrs T was unhappy with this, ultimately bringing her complaint to the Ombudsman Service. 
She said that the Government had introduced further restrictions that had meant the 
bookings could not go ahead. These restrictions included those on the size of groups that 
could gather and on the mixing of households. Ive referred to these as the rule of six.
Our Investigator felt that Society of Lloyds had applied the terms of the policy fairly and 
reasonably though. She did not agree that the rule of six had caused a restriction of access 
to the premises  albeit it may have been a restriction of use.
Mrs T remained unsatisfied and so her complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I have clarified Society of Lloyds position, as a number of cancellations look to fall into 
periods where further restrictions  for example the second national lockdown in 
November 2020  may have caused a denial of access to the premises for the purpose of 
the insured business. Whilst the policy does not necessarily require access to be denied, 
where there has been a denial for a relevant reason, it would seem there is a valid claim. 
Society of Lloyds has confirmed that where bookings were made prior to the announcement 
of a national lockdown and were due to commence when the lockdown was in operation, but 
could not take place due to the lockdown, there would likely be a valid claim. 
In my decision, I am only addressing whether or not the rule of six means Mrs Ts claims 
should be met. If she considers that any of the cancelled bookings fell within a period where 
there was a national lockdown, and the bookings were cancelled for this reason, she may 
wish to contact Society of Lloyds in relation to this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Mrs T, I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
As Ive said above, I have focussed this decision on whether or not the rule of six meant 
access to the buildings was restricted or denied.  
Restrictions were introduced on holiday accommodation providers in March 2020 leading to 
bookings being cancelled. These restrictions were eased in July 2020, allowing holiday 
accommodation to reopen. However, guidelines were introduced at this time, saying that 
people from more than two households should not stay together overnight. And in 
September 2020, further regulations limited the number of people who could meet indoors to 
six. Tier restrictions were later introduced, but the rules that applied to the area Mrs Ts 
premises were located in would not have been significantly different to other rule of six 
restrictions during this period. 
I do not consider it is in dispute that these were a law, order or decree of the Government 
nor that they were as a result of  outbreak of contagious disease. The dispute is effectively 
limited to whether or not the rule of six led to access to the buildings being restricted or 
denied.
It is useful at this point to refer to the Supreme Court judgment in The Financial Conduct 
Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC 1 (the FCA test case). This 
judgment, in part, considered policies requiring a prevention of access. And the Court said, 
at paragraph 149:
Access refers to the means of entry to the premises. If the premises can be entered 
for the purpose of carrying on the business there, then there has been no prevention 
of access.
It does not seem to be disputed that access to the premises was not prevented  or denied 
as the policy phrases this  by the rule of six. However, the policy also provides cover if 
access is restricted. 
Mrs T has said that restricted is not defined in the policy, and should be interpreted based 
on its ordinary meaning. She has referred to a specific dictionary definition. An undefined 
contractual term though is actually interpreted based on what a reasonable person, with the 
relevant background knowledge, would consider the term to mean at the time the relevant 
contract was entered  in this case March 2020. 
However, it is also the context in which the term appears that is important. In Mrs Ts policy, 
the term restricted is used in relation to access to the building. 
Restriction of access in this context is not considered in any detail in the FCA test case. 
Thinking about the above comments in the judgment though, I consider access would be 
understood to be restricted if entry to the premises was made more difficult.
The access has to be for the purposes of carrying on the business. The business in this case 
is the rental of holiday accommodation. So, was access for this purpose restricted or made more difficult?
I do not consider that it was. I can appreciate that access by more than six people from 
different households was restricted/denied. But large single households or smaller groups 
would still have been able to access the premises as they normally would. It would not have 
been more difficult for these people to have accessed the premises.
I can appreciate that the accommodation in question is primarily targeted at groups of more 
than six. However, this is a question of how the premises was intended to be used. Use of 
the premises is different to access to the premises. Ultimately, the premises could still be 
entered as normal for the purpose of the business, albeit by smaller/single-household 
groups. It is only the amount of people that can use the premises that is restricted.
So, I dont consider Society of Lloyds unfairly or unreasonably applied the policy terms to 
this part of Mrs Ts claim.
Having considered the rest of the relevant policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any 
area of cover that means Society of Lloyds should have met Mrs Ts claim for cancellations 
made as a result of the rule of six. I know this decision will be disappointing for her, but I 
hope Ive provided her with a thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in 
the circumstances of this part of the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman