DRN-3745819
The complaint
Miss S complains that Brazier Consulting Services Ltd (BCS) failed to pursue a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claim which meant shes lost the opportunity to have her 
complaint investigated.
What happened
In March 2019, Miss S said shed instructed BCS to pursue mis-sold PPI claims on her 
behalf with one of her lenders Ill call B. But despite calling, emailing and texting BCS she 
hadnt been given a resolution to her claim. Miss S said the odd time when shed get a 
response from BCS they just said there was a backlog. Miss S complained to BCS but they 
didnt respond so shes referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator asked BCS to provide their business file so that we could consider what 
theyd done for Miss S in pursuance of her mis-sold PPI claim. But BCS didnt provide the 
requested information. Our investigator said she couldnt say whether Miss S claim would 
have been successful but said Miss S had suffered a loss of opportunity. She asked BCS to  
compensate Miss S £250 for this. She also said the lack of updates had caused Miss S 
distress and inconvenience. And asked BCS to pay a further £100 for this.
BCS responded to our investigators outcome saying theyd sent letters of authority (LoA) to 
Miss S lenders. B and another lender replied saying theyd failed their quality check, and 
theyd told Miss S about this. Another lender had upheld Miss S claim and offered 
compensation. BCS said they asked Miss S to sign another LoA for B and theyd 
resubmitted this in July 2019, but due to the pandemic there had been a delay in mis-sold 
PPI claims being resolved. BCS said theyd updated Miss S about the impact of the 
pandemic.
Miss S complaint has been referred to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss S main dispute centres around the potential for a mis-sold PPI claim with her lender 
B. Miss S said she was hopeful of success as shed had accounts with them since 1997. 
BCS said theyd received LoAs from Miss S in March 2019 and had submitted these to her 
lenders. They said B hadnt accepted the LoA and theyd told Miss S about this and asked 
her to complete another LoA for B in July 2019. BCS said theyd submitted this before the 
August 2019 deadline for making such claims. But the mis-sold PPI claim hasnt yet been 
resolved because of the impact of the pandemic. 
So, neither party dispute that Miss S instructed BCS to act on her behalf to see whether 
shed been mis-sold any PPI by her lender B. And its this mis-sold PPI claim that Miss S is 
asking us to consider.
Its unfortunate that BCS has only provided limited information about their involvement with 
Miss S mis-sold PPI claims. They havent provided for example the LoAs theyve referred 
to, nor any case notes, call recordings or lender responses. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities 
- in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened or not considering the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI 
claims to be made. For some lenders the submission of a LoA was accepted as a claim for mis-
sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to investigate the mis-sold PPI claim.  
But for others a formal complaint with supporting information was required. Any claim received 
after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have been accepted by the lender(s) unless there 
were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
BCS said they submitted Miss S LoA to B in July 2019. I would have expected a lender on 
receipt of an LoA, as the August 2019 deadline approached, to either accept this as a        
mis-sold PPI claim  auto conversion  and begin to investigate whether PPI has been mis-
sold. Reject the claim as PPI hadnt been found or ask for further information to support   
Miss S claim that PPI had been mis-sold to her, for example a PPI questionnaire. And if B 
hadnt been able to locate an account for Miss S I would have expected them to seek further 
information to help identify her account details. I havent seen any evidence to show BCS 
submitted Miss S LoA  to B, other than BCS saying they did, nor any responses to or from 
B that I would have expected to see after an LoA had been submitted. I also havent seen 
any evidence that BCS took any subsequent action to establish the status of Miss S claim 
with B. 
The only information I can see that BCS say they sent to Miss S after July 2019 is a general 
update notification they were instructed to send to their customers about the impact of the 
pandemic. BCS said theyd sent this to Miss S in April 2020. They have shown us an audit 
trail of a letter being sent to an account in April 2020, and an example of the letter they sent. 
But neither show a correlation specifically to Miss S claim. 
The relevant guidance CMCOB 6.1.9 says:
A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least 
once every six months, in a durable medium.
I cant see that BCS did this.
I cant know or speculate whether Miss S would have had a successful mis-sold PPI claim 
with B or not as there are several factors that lenders would have needed to consider. But 
BCS havent persuaded me that that they carried out Miss S instructions to pursue her mis-
sold PPI claim with B. And I think this has meant shes lost the opportunity for a claim being  
fully investigated as its now over three years since the deadline for making these claims has 
passed. So, I think BCS should compensate Miss S £250 for this.
Ive also considered the service BCS gave to Miss S. And I dont think BCS have kept her 
informed as they should have. So, I think its fair and reasonable for BCS to pay Miss S £100 
for the distress and inconvenience this has caused.I understand Miss S probably wont feel as though this addresses her potential financial loss 
or feeling of being let down by BCS. But I hope she can understand why Ive reached the 
decision I have.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Brazier Consulting Services Ltd to compensate Miss S for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by paying her:
£250 for loss of opportunity and
£100 for poor customer service
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman