DRN-4239685
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that EBS Pensions Limited (Embark) didnt make her aware of rent 
arrears on a property held in her SIPP (self invested personal pension). Mrs M is also 
unhappy with an increase to charges and insurance premiums.
What happened
In brief, Mrs Ms SIPP with Embark includes two industrial units which are let out. At the end 
of 2020 the tenants of one of the units stopped paying rent and other charges. Mrs M didnt 
find out until 23 February 2022 by which time a significant debt had accumulated. Mrs M 
asked Embark for copies of the documentation for her SIPP which wasnt forthcoming 
despite reminders. 
Mrs M complained to Embark on 14 June 2022. Embark issued its final response on 1 July 
2022, upholding the complaint. Embark said Mrs M had consistently requested copies of the 
SIPP documentation without response. Shed made it clear the information was required 
urgently as she was trying to resolve an issue with a non paying tenant and remove them to 
introduce a new tenant. Embark said the requested documents had now been provided. On 
23 June 2022 Embark had sent Mrs M the Supplemental Deed, Property Management 
Agreement (PMA) and an updated rent reconciliation for the unit in respect of which the rent 
was in arrears. Embark had also confirmed it would arrange for the Deed of Surrender, 
Leases and Rent Deposit Deeds to be countersigned and returned to allow the new tenant to 
be put in place. Embark offered £100 for the distress and inconvenience Mrs M had been 
caused.  
Mrs M referred her complaint to us. We made several information requests to Embark. Mrs 
M kept us updated with her efforts to get view only access to the SIPP bank account. I think 
access was finally achieved in about November 2022. Queries had also arisen about the 
buildings insurance, the SIPP charges and the VAT treatment of the rent payments.  
Our investigator issued her view on 14 June 2023. In summary her findings were:
Embark had only been able to provide an unsigned copy of the PMA. But Embark 
had said that the property purchases couldnt have been completed without a signed 
PMA. So, on balance it was likely Mrs M had signed the PMA at the time.
The investigator set out extracts from the (unsigned) PMA and which said Mrs M is 
the property manager. The managers obligations include providing the services as 
set out in the schedule. These included invoicing the tenants for rent, service charge, 
insurance premiums and other payments due. And collecting the rent with any VAT 
payable and the other payments due. 
The PMA made it clear that Mrs M was responsible for checking that the rent had 
been received. Embarks responsibilities included ongoing administration in relation 
to the property, the payment of any invoices, insurance administration, receiving 
rental payments and allocating them to the correct account(s), rent reviews and 
arranging revaluations. 
It was unclear how Mrs M would be able to perform her duties as the property 
manager. Embark had confirmed that online access to the SIPP bank account wasnt 
normally given to clients when an account is opened. Clients and financial advisers 
may have been given access to a portal which mirrored the transactions through the 
bank account. But it was unclear if Mrs M had been provided with access.
Mrs M hadnt been provided with the access she needed to carry out her role as the 
property manager. She was unable to view statements to see if the rent had been 
paid and she only became aware of the issue when she met with the tenant. Had she 
had access to the account, shed have been aware much sooner there was an issue 
and been able to take action sooner. It was likely shed have been able to get a new 
tenant into the property and the arrears wouldve been much less. 
Embark had confirmed theyd normally expect any arrears to be highlighted to them 
to allow them to support the client in chasing the arrears, which would usually involve 
them writing to the tenant to try and recover payment of the rent before exploring, on 
agreement of the member, a legal route to recover any unpaid rent.
There was nothing to indicate Embark had contacted the tenant to try to recover the 
rent or explored any legal route to recover the unpaid rent. It had taken Mrs M a long 
time to get access to the SIPP bank account. Embark couldve done more to support 
her in trying to recover the arrears and getting access set up. Mrs M had been 
caused substantial upset and worry. Shes retired and her SIPP is her main pension 
provision. But the rent was the tenants responsibility, not Embarks, and was still 
owed to the SIPP.
The investigator had checked the SIPP fee schedule. She set out the fees payable, 
including those for the properties. It didnt seem thered been any errors.  
Embark had explained that in the past the properties had been incorrectly insured 
and that had now been corrected. 
The compensation of £100 offered by Embark wasnt fair considering the trouble and 
upset the matter had caused Mrs M. The investigator suggested £1,500 instead. She 
also said Embark should support Mrs M with the recovery of the arrears.
 
Embark accepted the investigators suggested outcome. Mrs M didnt. Her main objections 
were: 
Shed waited almost a year for this service to resolve her complaint about the 
handling of her SIPP, the lack of response to her repeated requests for information 
and the failure to address how the tenant arrears could be resolved or recovered. 
She was disappointed that wed repeatedly given Embark more time to respond to 
our requests for information but wed asked for her response within seven days. She 
pointed out that she was still awaiting a response from Embark following an email on 
22 June 2022. 
The investigator had said that Embark should support her with the recovery of the 
rent arrears. But it was unclear how things could be resolved, especially given the 
lack of responses by Embark since March 2022.
Mrs M also queried the investigators view that the PMA mustve been signed despite 
there being no evidence of that. 
What was clear was that Embark hadnt enabled her to monitor debits and credits 
through the bank accounts. The investigator had said Mrs M may have been given 
access (to the portal). But the procedure should be that clients and financial advisers 
are given access as a matter of course. Without that information, neither the client 
nor the financial adviser can accurately and efficiently manage the property. Mrs M 
pointed to the investigators finding on that issue  that it wasnt clear how Mrs M 
wouldve been able to perform her duties as the property manager when online 
access to the SIPP bank account wasnt normally given. 
Mrs M maintained that Embark had failed in the overall management of her SIPP by 
withholding access to information that wouldve prevented the arrears escalating. If 
Embark didnt have a defined and transparent methodology for property income management they shouldnt be in the business of providing a SIPP created for that 
purpose. 
Mrs M didnt think the compensation suggested was sufficient for the months of frustration, 
distress and financial loss and when Embarks unresponsiveness continued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to learn of Mrs Ms experiences with Embark. Particularly at what has been 
and continues to be a very difficult time for Mrs M. Ive considered very carefully all Mrs M 
has said. But in my decision Im just going to concentrate on what I see as key. Essentially, 
although I appreciate that Mrs M will remain disappointed and dissatisfied, I agree with the 
outcome suggested by the investigator. I think the sum she recommended that Embark 
should pay, which Embark has confirmed it accepts, is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Embark accepts that they havent dealt with things as they shouldve done. In particular 
there have been delays in providing information requested by Mrs M and despite repeated 
reminders having been sent. Embarks records seem deficient too  Embark should be able 
to produce completed and signed documentation.
On that issue, even if Mrs M didnt sign the PMA at the time I dont think that must mean she 
isnt bound by it. An unsigned contract may still be valid  for example if theres evidence 
that the terms were accepted. Acceptance could be by exchange of emails, or verbally or by 
conduct. If the relevant documentation including the PMA was issued to Mrs M then I dont 
think its unfair to say that the terms should apply as that was the notified basis upon which 
Embark or its predecessor was prepared to accept the properties into the SIPP. 
But, in any event, I tend to agree with the investigator that its likely that Mrs M did sign the 
PMA and the other documents and returned them to Embark even if they cant now be 
produced. Holding commercial properties in a SIPP can be complicated and I dont think its 
likely that the properties couldve been acquired by the SIPP without all the legal formalities 
having been completed. Its also the case that the original SIPP provider went into 
administration and so the SIPP was taken over by Embark. A change in business may 
sometimes mean that not all relevant documentation is passed on. 
Mrs Ms position is that Embark shouldve told her that the tenants had stopped paying the 
rent. Or, if access to the bank account had been set up at the outset, then Mrs M wouldve 
seen for herself what was happening and taken steps before significant arrears 
accumulated. But the PMA makes it clear that Mrs M is the property manager and its her 
responsibility to invoice the tenants for the rent and other sums due and to collect the 
payments. The income due from the property is then to be deposited in the specified bank 
account. Its also the property managers responsibility to advise the SIPP trustees and 
administrator (Embark) of any actual or anticipated rent collection difficulties and take 
appropriate action to secure any deficit against the tenant in a timely fashion. 
The arrangement seems to have been that the tenant paid the rent direct to the SIPP bank 
account. I dont know how that came about but it may be, as Mrs M issued the invoices for 
the rent, that the tenants agreed with her that payment could be made direct rather than via 
her. But its still the case that, under the terms of the PMA, it was for Mrs M to notify Embark 
of any difficulties, rather than the other way round. I dont doubt, if Mrs M had been fully 
familiar with her responsibilities under the PMA, that shed have made sure she had the necessary access so she could make sure that payments were being made. And, as she has 
suggested, problems wouldve been avoided if, as a matter of course, access was set up at 
the outset and as a matter of routine. 
Whats happened is very unfortunate. But I cant say Embark was responsible for any lack of 
access to the SIPP bank account if Mrs M didnt have it and didnt request it because she 
didnt know that responsibility for monitoring the rent payments rested with her. And I dont 
think it would be fair to say that Embark is to blame for the arrears accumulating if Mrs Ms 
responsibilities included notifying Embark of any breach of the lease (which would include 
non payment of rent), collecting the rent and advising Embark of any rent collection 
difficulties, whether actual or anticipated.  
I note that section 3.2 of the PMA says that the manager wont be liable as a result of any 
failure on the trustees part to promptly give proper authorisations, instructions, approvals, 
information and documents as may be necessary to enable the manager to carry out their 
obligations. Ignoring the fact that Mrs Ms complaint is brought against Embark as the SIPP 
administrator, I dont think that clause helps Mrs M as the difficulties that have arisen in 
obtaining information and documents were after arrears were incurred. And, in any event, 
even if that clause was applicable, it just means that Mrs M as the manager isnt liable  it 
doesnt make the trustees (or the administrator) responsible for anything  such as the rent 
arrears that accrued and which, as Ive said, the tenant remains responsible for paying. For 
similar reasons I dont see that the indemnity in clause 7 of the PMA assists much either. 
I agree that Embark should support Mrs M in trying to recover the outstanding rent from the 
tenant. But I dont think its possible to be specific as to what that should entail as it will 
depend on exactly what steps are decided upon. And the primary responsibility for taking 
appropriate action to secure any deficit is Mrs Ms, so it will be up to her to decide what to do 
and for Embark to assist her in any way it can  for example by providing up to date details 
of the amounts outstanding. 
I recognise that the situation is unsatisfactory because Embark hasnt responded promptly to 
Mrs Ms concerns and enquiries, a pattern that was repeated in Embarks dealings with us. 
But I dont think its quite right to say that the investigator only gave Mrs M a week to say if 
she was prepared to accept the investigators view. That was issued on 14 June 2023 and 
both parties were given 14 days to respond so by 28 June 2023. Not having heard from 
Embark by the time that deadline was nearly up, the investigator wrote to Embark on 27 
June 2023 asking if Embark accepted the view. When Embark replied on 5 July 2023 saying 
they did, the investigator updated Mrs M and gave a further 7 days for response. So by then 
Mrs M wouldve had the investigators view for about a month. 
But that aside, I can see why Mrs M may have lost confidence in Embark and its ability, 
going forwards, to assist her, including providing any information Mrs M requires. And it 
seems that Mrs M may have some outstanding queries  for example about the VAT 
treatment of the rental payments. Id ask Embark to respond to any outstanding queries as 
soon as possible and to liaise with Mrs M about the arrears. It will be up to Mrs M to decide 
what to do and how to move forward, whether thats with Embark or a new SIPP provider. 
Mrs M doesnt consider the compensation of £1,500 suggested by the investigator (and 
accepted by Embark) is enough. But I cant say that Mrs M suffered any financial loss 
because of any service failings on Embarks part, such as not providing the requested 
information promptly. As Ive explained, I dont think Embark is responsible for the arrears 
that built up. But Mrs M has suffered considerable distress and inconvenience and at a very difficult time 
which will have heightened the impact of the service failings. We give some examples on our 
website about the levels of award we might make for distress and inconvenience. For 
example, we say an award of up to £1,500 could be fair where the impact of a businesss 
mistake has caused substantial distress, upset and worry and where there may have been a 
serious disruption to daily life over a sustained period, with the impact felt over many 
months, sometimes over a year. In my view, thats consistent with what happened here and 
so I think £1,500 is appropriate and fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Lastly Mrs M also raised some other issues about an increase in insurance premiums and 
the charges that Embark has imposed. Ive seen that the investigator looked into those 
matters and I agree with her findings.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. EBS Pensions Limited must pay Mrs M £1,500 as compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience the service failings have caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman