DRN-3668986
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Experian Limited recorded someone elses county court 
judgement (CCJ) on her credit file.
What happened
In 2019, a third party had a CCJ registered against them. However, this was then added to 
Mrs Ks Experian credit file by mistake.
Through 2020 and 2021, Mrs K tried a number of times to consolidate her debts, but she 
kept getting turned down at quotation stage. She discovered the CCJ and complained.
In November 2021, Experian apologised and confirmed theyd removed the CCJ from her 
file. They offered her £100 compensation. But Mrs K explained that because she was unable 
to consolidate, shed been paying extra interest for some time. Following the CCJs removal, 
she was able to later move property, get substantial secured credit, and deal with her 
unsecured debt.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mrs K and Experian a provisional decision on 4 August 2022, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
It seems that Experian accepts this was their error, and I cannot see that this was caused by 
any other business. It looks like Experians system mismatched Mrs Ks file with this other 
persons CCJ, despite the fact that their details were rather different  such as having a 
different name and gender.
Its not certain when this CCJ was added to Mrs Ks credit file. Experian say they can only 
see her historic file as far back as October 2020. But the details on the CCJ that caused the 
mismatch wouldve been the same from inception, and I cant see that there was any event 
that would have caused the CCJ to be added later than its start date. So I think its most 
likely that the CCJ was on Mrs Ks file since it was originally registered in October 2019. That 
would also explain why she had credit troubles after then, which suddenly disappeared once 
the CCJ was removed.
Indeed, once the CCJ was removed, I can see that Mrs Ks credit score was near-perfect, 
sitting in the very top bracket. The CCJ was the only major negative factor on her report, its 
generally an exceptionally bad marker to have, Mrs K was unable to get any credit while it 
was on, and then once it was removed she was suddenly able to take out very substantial 
credit  more than tripling her secured borrowing. The only other negative factor on her file 
was her high level of unsecured debt, which was rather unlikely to have prevented her from 
getting a consolidation loan, given that consolidation loans are generally aimed specifically 
at people with high levels of unsecured debt. So on the balance of probabilities, I find it is 
most likely that the erroneous CCJ was the main thing preventing Mrs K from getting her 
consolidation loan.
Experian need to put that right. The question, then, is how best to do it. 
There are a few difficulties in working out how to compensate Mrs K. For example, because 
the CCJ caused Mrs K to get turned down at the quotation stage, she understandably never 
made full applications for specific products  as there was no point in her doing so when she 
had already been told she wasnt eligible. So we cant say for certain what specific product 
she would have been granted but for the CCJ. And since Mrs K eventually dealt with her 
debts when she later moved home and took out a new mortgage, we cant compare any 
current consolidation loan to what she was paying before.
Instead, I have put together an estimate of her likely losses by comparing the interest she 
paid on the accounts she was looking to consolidate against the interest she would have 
paid over the same period on an equivalent consolidation loan at average rates.
Ive started the estimate from October 2020. Mrs K doesnt recall when she started looking to 
consolidate, and October 2020 is the earliest search entry showing that she was trying to get 
quotes. I acknowledge that thats just as far back as Experians records go, and so its quite 
plausible Mrs K may have started trying to apply before then. But its not really possible to 
pinpoint another starting point without it getting arbitrary. The end point of the calculation is 
November 2021, when Experian informed Mrs K that the CCJ was no longer on her file, and 
so she could start getting credit again.
The average interest rate was taken from the October 2020 issue of Moneyfacts. With the 
term of this theoretical loan, Ive kept in mind that a consolidation loan would normally be 
longer-term and that Mrs K was looking to reduce her outgoings. So I used a 60-month term 
in my calculations, as this was the most common long/maximum term on offer at the time. 
I then put this theoretical consolidation loan through an amortisation calculator, which works 
out how much Mrs K would have paid towards interest and principal each month.
Mrs K explained that she was trying to consolidate two credit cards and a bank loan. She 
sent us the statements for these accounts. I can see the interest she repaid each month on 
her credit card statements, and this was substantially less than what she wouldve been 
paying on an average consolidation loan.However, Mrs Ks existing bank loan already had a lower interest rate than average at the 
time  so an average consolidation loan would have actually charged her more interest than 
that bank loan over time. Of course, I acknowledge that since the payments wouldve been 
spread out over a renewed term, it would have freed up disposable income for Mrs K month 
on month. And we do often tell businesses to pay compensation for a customer being left 
with less use of their money. However, any award I made for that would be effectively 
cancelled out by the extra interest Mrs K wouldve had to pay on the average consolidation 
loan compared to her existing bank loan. So for the sake of simplicity, Ive just taken the 
bank loan out of the calculation and focused on the two credit cards.
Similarly, I understand that Mrs K was also looking to remortgage, but was turned down at 
first while the CCJ was on her file. However, her remortgage applications started in late 
September 2021, just a few weeks before the CCJ was removed. So the delay there was not 
very significant, not least given how long it normally takes to get a mortgage. Further, if 
Mrs K had been able to remortgage earlier, but then had moved home some months later, 
then any interest she saved on the remortgage wouldve been cancelled out by the early 
repayment fees shed have to pay when she moved. So again, Ive left the possibility of an 
earlier remortgage out of the calculation.
So Ive based the consolidation loan amount on the total balances of Mrs Ks credit cards in 
October 2020. When comparing the interest Mrs K paid off each month on her credit cards 
against the interest she would have paid on an averaged consolidation loan, the total comes 
to £1,808.17. So this is what needs refunding.
Of course, once each of these extra interest amounts were paid off, Experian also need to 
compensate Mrs K for the time she was then out of pocket. We do that by awarding 8% 
simple interest on each overpayment, from when it was made until when the redress is paid. 
I have calculated this simple interest on a monthly basis, rather than a daily basis, as we 
cant say for certain which day this theoretical consolidation loan would have started on. The 
8% simple interest has been worked out from October 2020  the start of the redress period 
 until October 2022, which will account for the time it will take for this provisional decisions 
deadline to run out, and then for the final decision to go out, and then for Experian to make 
payment. This comes to £214.61.
Of course, Experian can reply to this provisional decision with arguments about the method 
Ive used to estimate the redress here. But its worth keeping in mind that no estimate will 
ever be 100% accurate. And regardless of the exact method, the fact remains that Experian 
need to compensate Mrs K for the extra interest she most likely paid due to their error 
leaving her unable to consolidate. So if Experian object, they will need to suggest other 
pragmatic solutions  including any calculations  such that Mrs K is compensated for the 
extra interest she likely paid and for the time she was out of pocket.
Lastly, I also plan to award compensation for the trouble and upset Experian caused Mrs K 
in being stuck on higher interest rates, in her experiences being repeatedly turned down for 
credit, and in having to get this all sorted out. I understand that this really added to her 
stresses when she was already going through a tough time in general.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. Both sides replied, and Ill talk 
about their replies below.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Experian agreed to the proposed redress, but asked if I could clarify whether the £250 
additional compensation was a total amount. To clarify: yes, that is a total amount. So if 
Experian have already paid the £100 they offered previously, they would only need to pay an 
additional £150 to bring the total to £250.
Mrs K explained that she really appreciated our help and she didnt want to come across as 
being difficult, but she felt that the £250 additional compensation wasnt enough to cover her 
losses. For example, she explained that she had to work extra hours, forego her annual 
leave, and spend less time with her child, which all added mental stress.
I do appreciate where Mrs K is coming from, and I hope I can reassure her that I dont think 
shes being difficult. She has every right to put forward her side of the case. I am also 
thankful to Mrs K for being candid and open with us about the tough time she went through.
I should explain that when a customer is deprived the use of their money  like Mrs K was 
here  we usually award 8% simple interest on top of their financial losses. This is the same 
rate that the courts use, and is often known as statutory interest. Its a much higher rate 
than Mrs K wouldve got in e.g. a savings account, which wouldve been more like 1% or 
less. And the reason its so much higher is to compensate her for the effects of being without 
her money  such as having to work extra hours and spend less time with her child. Its not 
otherwise possible to put a monetary figure on things like that, so we go with broadly the 
same approach that a court would. And its a generally fair approach, as it means that this 
compensatory interest is proportional to the amount of money that Mrs K was actually out of 
pocket for. So I hope I can assure Mrs K that I did take account of the impact on her there, 
by awarding the 8% simple interest.
The £250 additional compensation is then there to help put right the additional stresses 
Mrs K faced, such as in seeing her quotations get turned down and in sorting things out. And 
in terms of the amount, its worth bearing in mind that were not here to punish businesses or 
to issue large fines, but to resolve complaints. We have guidelines about the levels of 
compensation to award, and I need to be consistent with those. So while I do understand 
Mrs Ks perspective, I still think the proposed redress is fair.
Putting things right
I direct Experian Limited to:
Pay Mrs K £1,808.17 as an estimate of the extra interest she paid over the period 
she was unable to consolidate her debts;
Pay Mrs K 8% simple interest on those overpayments, estimated at £214.61, to 
compensate her for being deprived the use of that money; and-
Pay Mrs K £250 additional compensation in total, for the additional trouble and upset 
caused.My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ks complaint, and direct Experian Limited to put things right in the way I set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman