DRN-3648725
The complaint
Mr M complains that the Prudential Assurance Company Limited gave him unsuitable advice 
to contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS).
What happened
In 1989 Mr M was advised by Prudential to contract out of SERPS. He was 32 years old at 
the time and had little experience or knowledge of pensions and investments. 
Once he was contracted-out, a proportion of Mr Ms National Insurance Contributions was 
taken and invested in Prudentials With-Profits Fund instead of going into SERPS.
Mr M is now retired and receives £43.64 per month from the Prudential annuity. He says
this is less than he would have received if he had not opted out of SERPS, and he 
shouldnt have been exposed to the risk of a significantly lower retirement income as 
a result of contracting out;
if hed been warned of this risk, he wouldnt have accepted the advice;
his contributions were invested in a single with-profits fund, which was unsuitable as 
there was a lack of diversification and a concentration of risk.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said the advice given was 
suitable based on the information known at the time, taking into Mr Ms income, his age and 
the length of time until his retirement.
Mr M doesnt agree and has requested an ombudsmans decision. Hes assisted in bringing 
the complaint by a representative, who has made a number of points, including:
Mr M should not have been exposed to the risk of a much lower retirement income as 
a result of giving up inflation-protected benefits;
even if it was suitable to contract out, the funds should have been spread across a 
range of investments to reduce the risk, rather than being invested in a with-profits 
fund;
Prudential originally upheld the complaint but then said it would not uphold it based 
on the fact Mr M lost his job after the advice was given; 
it wasnt known at the time that this would happen, so its not relevant to the advice 
given at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where someone contracted-out of SERPS using a personal pension, some of their National 
Insurance contributions (referred to as rebates) were re-directed into a personal pension 
plan. These rebates would be invested and build up a fund that could be used to buy 
benefits that would otherwise have been provided by SERPS. 
One of the critical issues was to decide the level of rebate to be applied. The level of rebate 
for contracted-out individuals was set by the government after taking advice from the 
Government Actuarys Department (GAD). In addition to the rebate level suggested by GAD, 
the government added an additional 2% annual incentive payment that would apply until 
1993. The rebate percentage level was set as standard for all. So it was more attractive for 
younger individuals to contract-out than older people, who had less time before retirement to 
benefit from investment growth on their rebates. 
The actuaries at various pension providers carried out comparisons of the projected benefits 
from SERPS against the personal pension arrangement (based on the regulators set 
assumptions of likely future investment returns) to decide who would likely benefit. The ages 
where the providers advice as to whether to contract out or not would likely be beneficial 
were called pivotal ages. And there was a lower earnings limit, which was used to decide 
whether an applicants earnings would be enough to benefit from contracting out. 
An adviser was required to exercise due skill, care and diligence, give the investor all 
information relevant to those dealings  and use his best endeavours to enable the 
investor to understand the nature of any risks involved. The regulator also had specific 
requirements in relation to contracting-out of SERPS, and its members had to provide 
illustrations in a certain way. This included using a premium for illustration purposes of the 
minimum rebate payable for that year, with projections set at specified rates. 
Mr Ms representative has also referred to general legal duties including the duty to use 
reasonable care and skill, and to disclose the risks to ensure informed consent. As the 
regulators rules largely reflect those duties I have focused on those rules. 
At the time of the advice, the pivotal age at which Prudential considered it likely men would 
benefit from contracting-out of SERPS was below 45, and the minimum salary was over 
£5,000 per year. 
I think the illustration provided to Mr M would have shown that the amount payable at 
retirement date was subject to the growth rates used in the illustrations being achieved. 
Theres an issue here that the advice was given to Mr M over 30 years ago. Theres very 
little documentation from the time the advice was given, so its difficult to say exactly what 
was and wasnt discussed about the risks of contracting out. Where the evidence is 
incomplete or inconclusive, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in 
other words, what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Prudential has provided a copy of the Members Booklet, which would likely have been sent 
to Mr M at the time. This explains the plans charges, where the funds would be invested, 
and that at retirement date it would be the value of the units in the plan that would be used to 
provide pension benefits. The terms and conditions would likely have been sent to Mr M 
after hed taken out the plan. It was normal practice to provide an illustration at that time. 
Given Mr Ms age, an illustration would likely have shown he would get higher benefits from 
contracting out of SERPS, and I cant think of a reason why the adviser would not have 
provided a copy. So I think its more likely than not that an illustration was given to Mr M. 
Mr M was aged 32. Prudential doesnt have details of his salary at the time, but has carried 
out a calculation based on the 1989 rebate received, which shows his salary would have 
been around £7,700. So he was below the pivotal age and earned more than the minimum 
amount of £5,000 regarded by Prudentials actuaries as enough to accumulate funds in the 
plan after covering the charges.
Id also expect advice to have been given on Mr Ms occupational scheme benefits. 
Prudential hasnt been able to provide a copy of the application form Mr M would have completed. But it has provided a copy of a specimen form. This asks for details of 
employment, including  In respect of service to which DSS contributions relate, are you a 
member of an occupational pension scheme (other than a scheme which provides benefits 
only on death)?
Mr M would have had to complete the application form in order to contract out of SERPS, so 
I consider it likely he would have been advised on his occupational scheme benefits.
Mr Ms representative has said it wasnt suitable to put Mr Ms funds in a with-profits fund, 
due to the lack of diversification and higher level of risk. I appreciate diversification is a well-
known risk management tool, but the risks have to be considered in the context of the type 
of plan arranged. Prudential says the funds were invested in a spread of asset classes, 
which would generally be the case with these types of funds, and the Members Booklet 
confirms this. Mr M had around 30 years to retirement date, and that would generally be 
enough time to take some risk. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that the fund was 
unsuitable. 
Mr Ms representative has also argued that the impact of inflation represented an 
unnecessary risk. The regulator had specified that in providing figures for comparison, firms 
had to provide the potential benefits from the personal pension in a form it felt comparable to 
the benefits from SERPS. And the charges were included within the projections and in 
Prudentials actuarial calculations with regard to who would likely benefit from contracting-
out with its personal pension. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, at the time that Mr M contracted-out in 1989 it was 
thought  using conservative assumptions  that given his age and level of earnings he 
would likely be better off at retirement by contracting out of SERPS. I think its likely Mr M 
was told the benefits at retirement date depended on the performance of the investments 
and there were no guarantees. He had a long time until retirement, so was able to take a 
higher amount of risk. Given Mr Ms age and earnings, I think it would have been considered 
likely he would improve on the benefits that would otherwise have been obtained from 
SERPS by contracting out. 
There was no guarantee Mr M would be better off by contracting out; there was some risk 
involved. But in my view contracting out would have appeared a relatively low risk at that 
time. Ive seen no evidence to persuade me Mr M wasnt willing to take any risk. I think its 
unlikely someone of his age and circumstances would have thought the risk was 
unacceptable. 
Taking all the above onto account, and if the risks had been explained in the appropriate 
context, I think, on balance, its unlikely Mr M would have made a different decision about 
contracting out. Overall I dont think that contracting out was unsuitable for Mr M.
As things turned out, Mr M may have ended up worse off as a result of contracting out. But I 
have to consider the advice in the context of what was known at the time, not with the benefit 
of hindsight.
Mr M is also unhappy that Prudential initially upheld his complaint, and then changed the 
outcome of this once it had received some additional information. Prudential did initially say 
it would uphold the complaint. After receiving further information, it began calculations which 
led to further enquiries about his circumstances at the time of the advice. After considering  
all the information, Prudential said it believed the advice was suitable. Ive explained why I 
think the advice given in 1989 was suitable at the time. So I dont think the complaint should 
be upheld. But I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr M to think his complaint 
was being upheld only to find out that wasnt the case.Prudential offered Mr M £250 compensation for this and sent a cheque to him for that 
amount. Ive considered the circumstances and think thats a fair sum for the disappointment 
caused by thinking the complaint would be upheld and then being told it would not. Its not 
clear if the cheque was cashed. If Mr M did receive the money theres no need for Prudential 
to do anything further. But if he hasnt had the money then Prudential should now make the 
payment to him.
My final decision
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that if it hasnt already paid Mr M, the Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited should pay him £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman