DRN-3641974
The complaint
Mr M and Ms T complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) declined their claim for damage, 
and other related costs, caused by a vermin infestation. 
For ease, Ill refer to all actions and comments as those of Mr M.  
What happened
I dont intend to go into great detail about Mr Ms initial claim, which was for damage caused 
to his home by flood water, as its my understanding that a cash settlement has been paid in 
relation to the claim and the only outstanding issue is whether enough was paid towards 
electrical damage caused by the flood. So I will only provide information thats relevant to the 
specific complaint points raised by Mr M.  
Mr M renewed his home insurance policy with QIC at the end of October 2019. The policy 
provided both buildings and contents cover. 
On 12 August 2020 sewage drains close to Mr Ms home overflowed and he was advised by 
emergency services to leave his property. Contaminated water entered his garden and the 
subfloor of his home, and he submitted a claim for the damage to QIC. Mr M and his family 
moved into alternative accommodation (AA). 
When QICs loss adjuster inspected the property, it found that flood water hadnt entered the 
main part of Mr Ms home. But after hatches were cut into the floorboards, it was found that 
the subfloor of Mr Ms home was heavily contaminated with sewage water. QIC removed the 
flooring and floorboards downstairs in the property during September 2020, removed sludge 
and sanitised the subfloor area. Drying machines were installed to dry out the subfloor 
between 15 September 2020 and 1 October 2020. QIC paid a cash settlement to Mr M for 
damaged contents in September 2020. 
A cash settlement for the reinstatement of the floorboards and floor coverings throughout the 
ground floor, reinstatement of the kitchen and a range of other remedial works, including 
some electrical work, was paid to Mr M at the beginning of November 2020. 
Mr M said that when he went to his home to begin the necessary remedial work, he 
discovered that vermin  rats and squirrels  had entered his home and caused extensive 
damage to the contents of his home including to carpets, beds and bedding. Mr M informed 
QIC and he was advised to arrange for pest control to visit his home, which he did. QIC then 
arranged for technicians to visit Mr Ms home in mid-November 2020 to assess the damage 
caused by the vermin infestation. A report was prepared which listed the damaged items and 
said that Mr M had estimated the cost of the damage at around £13,000. The report also 
said Mr M was willing to accept a settlement of £8,000. 
QIC contacted Mr M in December 2020 and said it had decided to turn down Mr Ms claim in 
relation to damage caused by the vermin infestation. It pointed to a policy clause that 
excluded cover for damage to buildings and contents caused by infestation. 
QIC also said that it considered additional costs incurred by Mr M for work done to the 
electrics, but said its surveyor confirmed that the works completed were not all necessary 
due to the original flood. It said Mr Ms own contractor confirmed in his quote that the works 
were required due to the installation being in poor condition. QIC said a payment of £661.95 
had previously been made and no further payments would be made. It said the policy didnt 
cover for betterment so only flood related damage was covered. QIC also confirmed it would 
pay £9,460 AA costs and £1,250 disturbance allowance (DA). 
Mr M complained and said he didnt agree with what QIC said about the vermin infestation. 
He said when the technician visited in November 2020, he agreed that QIC should pay an 
amount of £8,000 for the damage caused. He also complained about its decision not to pay 
for the cost of electrics, as well as the cost of clearing the vermin infestation from his home. 
Mr M said he had spent the settlement paid on AA, as he was unable to return to his home. 
QIC responded to the complaint in January 2021 and agreed to pay an additional £1,000 
towards the AA and the cost of electricity used by its technicians. It said it would not cover 
damage to the electrics because of age or other causes. It said it would cover the cost of 
dealing with the cover ground floor socket, if evidence was provided.
In relation to the vermin infestation, QIC again referred to the clause in the terms that 
excluded damage caused by infestation, and also referred to the policy term that excluded 
consequential losses. QIC said there was nothing to support Mr Ms assertion that the 
technician said Mr M should be paid £8,000 to cover the cost of damage to contents caused 
by vermin. It said the technicians report said Mr M would have been willing to accept an 
offer of £8,000, not that this had ever been offered. 
Mr M remained unhappy and so complained to this Service. Our Investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint, as he thought QIC had applied the exclusion for infestation by vermin fairly. 
Mr M didnt agree, so the case was passed to me for a decision. 
I contacted both parties and was provided with additional information. I then issued a 
provisional decision on 28 June 2022. I said that I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint and 
ask QIC to put things right as follows: 
Pay £3,600, plus interest, for pest control costs. 
Cover reasonable costs, plus interest, for replacing the contents damaged as a result 
of the vermin infestation, including the cost of removing contaminated items. 
Cover any AA or DA costs, whichever applies, between 1 January 2021 and 28 
February 2021, subject to the remaining terms of the policy. Interest should also be 
paid.  
Compensation of £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
 
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond. Mr M responded and said he agreed with 
most of what was said in the provisional decision. However, he wanted me to consider that 
the electrical wiring in the upstairs of the property was also damaged by vermin, particularly 
in the bathroom and some sockets in other rooms. Mr M also provided a number of invoices 
showing how much was spent replacing beds and flooring. 
QIC did not respond. 
Having reviewed everything, I am now in a position to issue a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to first of all be clear about what I am addressing in this decision. Mr Ms complaint to 
QIC was about being told his policy does not provide cover for damage caused by a vermin 
infestation. And about QIC not fully covering the cost of work done to the electrics in his 
home, the cost of getting rid of the vermin and the additional AA expenses he has incurred. 
These are the issues dealt with in QICs final response and so are the issues that I will 
address in this decision.
QIC has relied on the term in the policy that excludes vermin infestation from cover to 
decline Mr Ms claim for damage caused by the vermin. Exclusions of this type arent 
unusual in home insurance policies. However, the issue here is that the infestation might 
well have occurred while QIC was dealing with Mr Ms claim in relation to flood damage at 
his home. So I need to look at whether QIC should deal with the vermin infestation issue 
outside of the terms of the policy. And I think it should. Ill explain why. 
Ive seen photographs of the interior of Mr Ms home taken by QICs loss adjuster in August 
2020, soon after the flood. These suggest flood waters hadnt entered the main body of the 
house, and although not visible in the photographs, it seems the subfloor had been badly 
affected. The photographs show there was no evidence of a vermin infestation in Mr Ms 
home then, and the loss adjuster didnt report an infestation of any kind. So Im satisfied 
there was no vermin infestation at that point. 
QIC took up all floorboards in the ground floor of Mr Ms home in the first two weeks of 
September 2020. After cleaning the subfloor, it installed dryers from mid-September to 
1 October 2020. When the dryers were then removed on 1 October the floorboards were not 
replaced, leaving the subfloor exposed. At that stage QICs contractors didnt report any 
concerns about an infestation. However, when a QIC contractor visited the property in mid-
October 2020 they noted that it was evident rodents have been in the property due to 
faeces. So I think its fair to say the infestation is most likely to have occurred at some stage 
between QICs contractors removing the dryers from the house on 1 October 2020 and what 
seems to have been the final inspection of the work done to dry out the property in mid-
October 2020.  
What this means is that Im satisfied the infestation happened at a point in time when Mr M 
and his family were living in AA. The claim hadnt yet been settled and QIC was no longer 
controlling the drying process at Mr Ms home. And it wasnt carrying out any repair work, as 
Mr M intended to make his own arrangements for carrying this out. Although QIC was no 
longer in control of Mr Ms home, it still had a responsibility to make sure it was left in such a 
way that it was safe and secure and I dont think it did this. 
As I said earlier, the floorboards in the downstairs of Mr Ms home were not replaced when 
QIC finished drying the property. I wouldnt have expected the floorboards to be permanently 
replaced, as Mr M intended to do this when he received the cash settlement. But I would 
have expected the subfloor to be covered in some way. I think it should have been 
reasonably foreseeable to a home insurer that pests or vermin of some kind might well have 
entered Mr Ms home if the subfloor was left completely exposed. 
I acknowledge I dont know for certain that the vermin entered the property through the 
subfloor while there were no floorboards in place. But Ive decided that, on the balance of 
probabilities, this was more likely than not the way the vermin got in. Ill explain why. Mr M said the pest controllers contacted by him made several suggestions about how the 
vermin might have got in. But they werent asked to provide a definitive opinion about this  
their focus was on ridding the property of vermin. So I think its fair to say the suggestions 
made to Mr M were speculative. QIC sent a loss adjuster to Mr Ms home after he reported 
the infestation, but this was just to provide an inventory of damaged items. The loss adjuster 
didnt inspect the property to see how the vermin might have entered. What this means is 
that there is no expert opinion here in relation to how the vermin got in. But given that Mr M 
said he has never had a vermin problem in the four or so years hes lived at the house, and 
that the subfloor was completely exposed in an unoccupied house, I think its fair to say its 
more likely than not that the vermin got in through the subfloor. 
What this means is that I dont think QIC acted fairly when it relied on the vermin exclusion to 
decline Mr Ms claim following the vermin infestation. This is because I think it should have 
done more to secure his home. And I think its responsible for damage caused by vermin as 
a result of its failure to do that.
Ive looked at what redress is fair here. 
Mr M has provided an invoice dated from November 2020 showing that he was charged 
£3,600 by the pest controllers to clear his home of vermin. I think its reasonable for QIC to 
cover this cost in full. QIC should pay interest on this at 8% simple per annum from the time 
Mr M paid the invoice to the time QIC reimburses him, to compensate Mr M for not having 
the use of this money. 
Ive considered what amount should be paid to Mr M in relation to damage caused to the 
contents of his home. The inventory of damaged items drawn up by QICs loss adjuster in 
November 2020 provides some information about damaged items. It says there was: 
Evidence of vermin gnawing at carpets. 
Evidence of vermin urinating and defecating on the carpets in the three bedrooms, 
stairs and landing. 
Dead rats found in a bedroom with childrens toys. 
Rat droppings found in all boxes in one of the childrens bedrooms. 
Rat droppings on beds.
Rat droppings on carpet, insulation and contents of the attic. 
It also referred to damage caused to various childrens toys, two beds and 
mattresses, two bedside cabinets, various clothes, four paintings, various damaged 
shoes and trainers.  
Based on the inventory and on the photographic evidence Ive seen, the damaged items are: 
Carpets in three bedrooms, landing and stairs
Two beds, including mattresses.
Attic insulation, carpet in the attic and contents of the attic. 
Two bedside cabinets.
Four paintings. 
Various items of clothing.
Various shoes and trainers.
Bedding. 
Mr M also told me that he had to replace doors and skirtings upstairs, shelves, wardrobes 
and towels because of the damage caused to them. While these items arent mentioned in 
the inventory taken by QICs loss adjuster, I can see how some of this damage might only 
have become evident at a later date, when Mr M was carrying out remedial work on his 
home.I think a fair outcome here would be for QIC to cover reasonable costs of replacing all of the 
items listed above, including the items not listed in the inventory, but raised by Mr M and 
detailed above. I think QIC should also cover any additional, reasonable costs incurred in 
having the contaminated items removed. 
My understanding from Mr M is that he has already replaced the damaged items. So Mr M 
should forward the relevant receipts or other proofs of purchase / payment to QIC for it to 
validate and refund the costs. Im satisfied its fair to ask QIC to pay interest at 8% simple 
per annum on any relevant payments made by Mr M, from the time he made the payment to 
the time QIC reimbursed him. I think it's fair for interest to be paid in this instance as Mr M 
has had to use his own money to replace the damaged items and so has been deprived of 
the use of this money because of QICs errors. 
Ive also considered whether an additional payment for AA or DA should be made. QIC has 
told me that hotel costs and DA have been paid in full, covering the period up to the end of 
December 2020. It told me this amounted to just over £13,400. I understand that QIC paid 
up to the end of 2020 because, had it been doing the work itself, this is the estimated date its 
contractor would have completed the work and Mr M and his family could have moved back 
into the property. 
Mr M told me that the vermin problem was dealt with by the end of November 2020 and he 
re-laid the floorboards downstairs sometime in early December 2020. He said that he didnt 
move back into the house until recently, as he took the opportunity to extend and renovate 
the property. But he was clear that the work carried out by him could have been done more 
quickly, and so he would have moved back into the house sooner, if hed had the benefit of 
the money that QIC should have paid him towards the damaged contents and pest control 
costs. 
I dont think it would be fair to ask QIC to cover all additional AA and DA costs to the point 
that Mr M would have moved back into his home, as its clear some of these were incurred 
because of Mr Ms decision to extend his home and live elsewhere while this was being 
done. But I think that if QIC had taken the action that Ive decided it should have taken back 
in October 2020, when it became aware of the vermin infestation, then its likely it would 
have needed to cover some additional housing costs. 
At this stage, it isnt possible to know precisely when Mr M might have been able to move 
back into the property if this matter had been dealt with in the way it should. So Ive looked at 
when it seems more likely than not that he would have been able to move back in. 
QIC carried out its vermin inspection in mid-November 2020. I dont know with any certainty 
how long it would take QIC to pay a claim of this kind, but I would estimate around six 
weeks. So Mr M could reasonably have expected to receive the money owed to him to cover 
damage caused by the vermin infestation by around the end of December 2020. Once this 
was received, Mr M would have needed to clear his home of the contaminated carpets, 
furniture and other contents; carry out repairs to damaged skirtings and doors; re-order 
carpets and arrange fittings and buy replacement beds and other pieces of furniture. Given 
the amount of work to be done, I think its likely it would have taken Mr M a further two 
months to complete the work to make his home habitable. 
So I think its fair to ask QIC to cover any AA costs incurred by Mr M between 
1 January 2021 and 28 February 2021. Interest of 8% simple per annum should be added 
from the point in time Mr M paid these AA costs to the time QIC reimburse him. If no AA 
costs were incurred  as I understand Mr M might have been living with a family member 
during this time  then QIC should pay DA, in line with the terms of the policy, between the 
same period of time.  Mr M also complained that QIC paid only some of the costs incurred for electrical work 
carried out on his home after the flood. QIC told Mr M, when it turned down his request to 
cover the cost of a full re-wire, that it would limit the settlement in relation to the electrics to 
£661.95, as its surveyor confirmed the works completed were not all necessary because of 
the flood. It told Mr M his own contractor confirmed in his quote that the works were needed 
because of the installation being in poor condition and he indicated it needed a full rewire. 
QIC said Mr Ms policy only covers him for damage caused by the flood, and not wear and 
tear. 
So Ive looked at whether QIC acted fairly when it covered only a relatively small proportion 
of the total electrical costs incurred by Mr M, and I think it did. 
Ive seen a copy of the site visit report prepared by QICs surveyor in early December 2020. I 
note that the surveyor indicated he had been involved with this claim from the start. The site 
visit was arranged after QIC received a quote from Mr M for a full re-wire of the property. 
The reason for the visit was to inspect and comment on the condition of the electrical 
installation. The surveyor was clear that the electrical installation was, overall, in poor 
condition. He said this was not in any way related to the flooding at the property. He said the 
flooding to the property filled the subfloor and covered the floor in some areas, but quickly 
receded. He said the only electrics affected were wires under the chipboard flooring  no 
sockets or outlets were submerged. The surveyor said around 90% of the electrical 
installation was untouched by the flood waters and this was a major contributing factor to the 
decision not to accommodate the re-wiring, as it was not peril related. The surveyor noted 
there was vermin damage to the wiring, and said the damage was only visible on the same 
wiring at ground floor level that had been submerged in water. 
Mr M provided me with an electrical inspection report dating from November 2020 and Ive 
taken this into consideration. I note that it said the electrical installation was unsatisfactory 
and that there was considerable damage to install down to flooding. However, this report 
didnt comment on the condition of the electrical installation immediately prior to the flood 
and is considerably less detailed and specific than the report provided by QICs surveyor. So 
I think QIC acted fairly when it relied on the surveyors report and made the decision to pay 
only a proportion of the electrical repair costs, rather than paying for a full re-wire as Mr M 
has requested. Ive also considered the vermin damage that happened some weeks after the 
flood. But although its clear the vermin caused some damage to wires, the surveyor has 
indicated that these were wires already damaged by the flood water, so no new damage to 
the electrical installation was caused by the vermin. 
When Mr M responded to my provisional decision, he asked me to consider that some 
electrical wiring upstairs in his property was also damaged by vermin. I appreciate what 
Mr M has said, however Ive relied here on the report prepared by QICs surveyor in early 
December 2020, and that report doesnt point to any electrical damage upstairs in the 
property. So I am not asking QIC to take any further action in relation to costs incurred by 
Mr M for electrical work on his property. 
Ive also considered whether its fair for QIC to compensate Mr M for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him. Hes talked about the considerable strain that 
was put on his family while theyve been unable to live at their home, not least of all because 
they have young children. Some of the distress and inconvenience experienced was 
unavoidable, and was part and parcel of what can happen when a flood unfortunately 
causes damage to a home, and so isnt the fault of QIC. However, if QIC had dealt with the 
vermin problem in the way it should have, then Mr M and his family could have avoided at 
least a few months living away from their home, and all of the inconvenience and distress 
that comes with that. I think its fair to ask QIC to pay £1,000 compensation. My final decision
I am upholding this complaint and require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Mr M and Ms T the 
following amounts: 
Pay £3,600 for pest control costs, as per the invoice provided by Mr M. Interest 
should be paid on this at 8% simple per annum from the time Mr M paid the invoice 
to the time QIC reimburses him.
Cover reasonable costs of replacing the contents listed in this decision as being 
damaged as a result of the vermin infestation, including reasonable costs of 
removing contaminated items. Interest should be paid at 8% simple per annum from 
the time Mr M made the various payments to the time QIC reimburses him.
Cover any AA or DA costs, whichever applies, between 1 January 2021 and 
28 February 2021, subject to the remaining terms of the policy. Interest of 8% simple 
per annum should be paid on any AA costs, from the point in time Mr M paid these 
costs to the time QIC reimburse him. 
Compensation of £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman