DRN-2352040
The complaint
Mr Y complains about poor customer service received when his car broke down and he 
called for assistance from U K Insurance Limited trading as Green Flag (Green Flag) under 
his Roadside Assistance Insurance Policy.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr Y was driving his car when he noticed a red warning light on his dashboard 
had come on. He called Green Flag who sent a engineer.
Mr Y says the engineer said the oil level was low and needed to be topped up. He told Mr Y 
to follow him to a petrol station. Mr Y bought oil and the engineer poured it into the engine. 
However, the red light was still showing. The engineer told Mr Y it was safe for him to drive 
home  a 25 minute drive  with his wife and family. So he set off.
Within a few miles Mr Y was stopped by police because of smoke coming out of his exhaust. 
The police said it wasnt safe for him to carry on, so he called Green Flag again who 
recovered his car to his home.
The next day Mr Y took the car to an independent garage. It said his car had a faulty oil 
warning switch, which it replaced. It also said the car had been overfilled with oil. It drained 
three and a half litres of excess oil. It charged him £10.90 for the replacement part and £45 
for labour.
Mr Y complained to Green Flag that its engineer had misdiagnosed the fault, put him and his 
family in danger, damaged his car by overfilling it, and had caused him distress. 
Green Flag said its engineer disagreed with Mr Ys version of events. The engineer said 
when he arrived and inspected the car, he found an oil leak and advised that the car be 
recovered. However, Mr Y didnt want this, and asked if the engineer would follow him to a 
petrol station, which he did.
Mr Y bought some oil which the engineer put in the car. Mr Y asked of it would be safe to 
drive home and the engineer said he again advised that the car should be recovered. Green 
Flag said it wouldnt accept Mr Ys complaint as he hadnt followed the advice which the 
engineer had given him. The engineers job sheet supported his statement that he had given 
this advice.
Green Flag refunded the labour cost of £45 that Mr Ys garage had charged for draining the 
excess oil. However, it wouldnt refund the £10.90 cost of the replacement part, as this would 
have been required anyway.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr Ys 
version of events, and Green Flags version of events, were completely different. That said, it 
seemed clear that the oil pressure warning switch had developed a fault before Green Flag 
became involved, and so would have to have been replaced in any event.
There was no evidence that overfilling the oil had caused any damage to the car, and Green 
Flag had refunded the cost of draining the excess oil, which he thought was fair, as the 
engineer did help to put the oil in the car. So he didnt recommend that Green Flag be 
required to do anything more.
Mr Y responded to say, in summary, that the actions of Green Flags engineer as he had 
described them would have put him and his family in danger, if the police hadnt fortunately 
pulled him over.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The descriptions of what happened supplied by Mr Y and by Green Flag are completely 
different. There is no independent evidence to confirm one or other version. So I cant be 
sure that Green Flag told Mr Y that he just needed to top up the oil, rather than offering to 
recover the car.
While I understand that Mr Y is upset by the thought of what might have gone wrong if he 
hadnt been stopped by the police and had continued to drive the car, fortunately no harm 
came to his family, and his car was recovered safely.
As the investigator said, there is no evidence that the overfilling caused any damage to the 
car. Green Flag refunded the cost of draining the excess oil, and Mr Y would always have to 
have paid the cost of the replacement oil pressure warning switch. So on the evidence 
available to me, I conclude that Green Flag hasnt treated Mr Y unfairly.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against U K Insurance 
Limited trading as Green Flag.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman