DRN-2412277
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc blocked and then closed his bank account. He says this 
caused him trouble and upset and he wants the bank to pay him compensation. 
What happened
Mr M had an account with TSB.
On 29 July 2019 a faster payment of just over £4,000 from another bank, was paid into 
Mr Ms current account. TSB took the view that it needed to look into the payment and how 
Mr M was operating his account. Whilst it completed a review TSB blocked Mr Ms access to 
his account.
On 30 July 2019, Mr M flew out of the UK on a business trip. Mr M has explained that before 
he left the UK, hed transferred just over £4,000 into his TSB account to fund his trip. Whilst 
overseas, Mr M discovered that his account was blocked when he tried to make a payment 
with his bank card in a shop.
Mr M rang TSB to find out what was happening with his account. The bank told Mr M that 
they needed to see proof of his entitlement to the funds which had been paid into his 
account on 29 July 2019.  On 8 August 2019, Mr M sent TSB some paperwork, which was 
an invoice for services Mr M said his company had provided. TSB reviewed the information 
Mr M provided and decided to close his account. On 9 August 2019, TSB wrote to Mr M 
giving him 60 days notice of its intention to close his account. And asked him to come into 
branch with identification to collect his closing balance. 
Mr M returned to the UK on 14 September 2019 and went into a branch on 26 September 
2019, to withdraw his balance.
Mr M says the block to his funds caused him a great deal of stress and inconvenience  
especially as he was away from home overseas. Hes explained that because he didnt have 
access to his money, he had to borrow money from his family whilst he was overseas. And 
he had to cancel a business event hed organised as he didnt have enough funds. Mr M 
wants TSB to compensate him for the cost of his cancelled event and the impact of not being 
able to access his money had on him. 
Mr M complained to the bank. TSB said it hadnt done anything wrong. And it had blocked 
and then closed Mr Ms account in line with the account terms and conditions. Mr M wasnt 
happy with this response. So, he brought his complaint to us.
An investigator looked at Mr Ms complaint. She said TSB hadnt done anything wrong when 
it blocked and closed Mr Ms account. And were entitled to ask Mr M questions about the 
money paid into his account. Mr M disagreed. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Its clear from what Mr M has told us and the bank that he feels very strongly about his 
complaint. I appreciate hes upset that TSB blocked his account. And that this caused him 
inconvenience. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank has 
done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that TSB has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations 
TSB may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. If TSB didnt 
comply with its obligations it could risk serious sanction.
In order to meet these requirements TSB is entitled to ask a customer for more information 
about how they use their account, including payments which are made into an account. And 
its not for this service to interfere with the banks processes. Our role is to see if the bank 
has made any mistakes and then put the customer back in the position theyd have been in if 
the mistake hadnt happened.
The timing of TSB actions was unfortunate. Mr M was overseas at the time. And he needed to 
be able to meet the cost of his everyday living expenses. So, I can understand why he found 
this experience with TSB stressful and upsetting. And why he wants TSB to pay him 
compensation.  
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for TSB to block Mr Ms account and ask him for information about the money which had 
been paid into his account in July 2019. TSB has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr M inconvenience, I 
cant say TSB treated him unfairly when it blocked his account. And asked him to provide 
information. 
I understand Mr M wants TSB to explain why it didnt let him know it had blocked his 
account. I can appreciate not being able to access his account wouldve caused Mr M worry 
and concern. But TSB doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their 
accounts. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr M this information. And it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
I note that TSB spoke to Mr M on more than one occasion and asked him to provide 
information about the money paid into his account. So, I think TSB kept Mr M informed about 
what it was doing. And what information it needed from him. Mr M provided paperwork, and I 
dont think it unreasonable that the bank needed time to examine what hed provided and 
make enquiries. The bank needed to be satisfied Mr M was entitled to the money. Overall, I 
think TSB took appropriate measures to find a way forward for Mr M to be able to access the 
money remaining in his bank account. And completed its review in a timely manner.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ms account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
TSB gave Mr M 60 days notice. So, it was entitled to close the accounts as it has already 
done. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient for Mr M when TSB blocked and closed his 
account. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But I dont believe TSB acted 
unreasonably or treated Mr M unfairly in taking the actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman