DRN-3173767
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, provided him with
credit which he feels was unaffordable for him.
What happened
Mr M had a credit account with Barclays which had a credit limit of £4,000. In December
2015, Barclays increased the credit limit on Mr Ms account to £7,000. Further credit limit
increases followed in August 2016 and August 2017, to £11,000 and £11,500 respectively.
In 2021, Mr M raised a complaint with Barclays as he felt on all the occasions described
above, he hadnt been able to afford the further credit that Barclays had given him, and that
Barclays should have known this, had they conducted checks into his financial position at
those times before implementing the credit limit increases.
Barclays looked at Mr Ms complaint, but they noted that they had undertaken checks into
Mr Ms financial position before implementing the credit limit increases, and that there hadnt
been anything resulting from those checks that they felt should have given them cause to
consider that Mr M might not be able to afford the credit limit increases at those times.
Because of this, Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the information that Barclays
had had available to them, especially at the time of the earliest credit limit increase in
December 2015, alongside Mr Ms stated monthly income, meant that Barclays should have
concluded that the credit limit increase in December 2015 most likely wasnt affordable for
Mr M at that time. Our investigator therefore recommended that this complaint be upheld in
Mr Ms favour on that basis.
Barclays werent happy with the recommendation put forward by our investigator, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 November 2021 as follows:
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how 
much and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before 
approving a customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of 
credit available to a customer on an existing line of credit, the business would 
undertake reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being 
offered to a customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
Barclays say that they did that here. Before each of the credit limit increases in 
question, they reviewed how Mr M had been managing his Barclays credit account 
up to that point and they also obtained information from a credit reference agency to 
gain a better understanding of Mr Ms wider financial position. And, Barclays contend 
that on each occasion there was nothing resulting from these checks that they feel 
should have given them cause to suspect that Mr M might not be able to afford the 
further credit being offered to him.
Its notable that the information that Barclays obtained from a credit reference agency
includes what amounts of further credit the credit reference agency themselves 
assessed that Mr M could afford at that time. This means that an important aspect of 
the affordability assessment for the credit limit increases had effectively been 
outsourced by Barclays to the credit reference agency, and its notable that Barclays 
themselves didnt directly contact Mr M to gain an understanding of his monthly 
income and essential expenditure at the times that the credit limit increases were 
offered.
Barclays were entitled to take this approach, but it does mean that Barclays 
ultimately bear the responsibility for any errors, omissions, or miscalculations made 
by the credit reference agency, should these errors be determined to have led to the 
unfair or irresponsible provision of credit to Mr M by Barclays.
In their view of this complaint, our investigator noted that the information that 
Barclays had available to them included, when considering the earliest credit limit 
increase in December 2015, that Mr M had existing external credit of approximately 
£13,700 and was maintaining his Barclays credit account at about a £3,200 balance 
 which was within the £4,000 credit limit. Our investigator also noted that Mr M was 
consistently maintaining his current account, held with a different bank, in an 
overdrawn balance and that his declared monthly income was approximately £565, of 
which £371 was being used to service his existing credit commitments.
Because of Mr Ms declared low monthly income, lack of monthly disposable income 
after existing credit commitments and essential spending, and relatively high levels of
indebtedness, our investigator felt that Barclays should reasonable have concluded 
that Mr M wouldnt have been able to afford the credit limit being offered to him such 
that it shouldnt have been implemented by Barclays. And they upheld this complaint 
on that basis.
Barclays didnt agree with our investigators recommendation and they noted that the
information that they had obtained from the credit reference agency, whilst not 
confirming Mr Ms actual monthly income amount, had included that the credit 
reference agency were themselves confident that Mr M could afford the credit limit 
increase under consideration.
The question therefore becomes one of whether the information that Barclays 
obtained from the credit reference agency about the affordability of the credit limit 
increase for Mr M was accurate. To that end, Ive reviewed Mr Ms current account 
statements from that time period to assess Mr Ms financial position in the months 
leading up to the credit limit increase.
Having done so, I note that Mr M appears to have had a number of regular sources 
of income at that time, and, while Mr Ms monthly income appears to have been 
variable, in the four months leading up to the credit limit increase in December 2015, 
it appears that the average net monthly income for Mr M appears to have been in the 
region of £2,250.Furthermore, whilst its evident that Mr M was making payments towards his existing 
credit of approximately £675 per month, the usage of Mr Ms account, which includes 
notable amounts of retail and leisure spending, doesnt present a picture of Mr M 
being in financial difficulty at that time. Finally, while it was the case that Mr M did 
maintain the balance of his external current account in an overdrawn position, this 
appears to have always been within the agreed overdraft amount, and as such I dont 
consider this as being a decisive indicator that Mr M should be considered as having 
been in financial difficulty at that time.
As such, Im satisfied that the information that Barclays received from the credit 
reference agency regarding the assessed affordability of the proposed credit limit 
increase in December 2015 was accurate to a reasonable degree.
This means that, when considered in conjunction with Mr Ms historical management 
of the Barclays credit account in the months leading up to the credit limit increase  
during which time Mr M maintained the balance of the account well within the credit 
limit and didnt incur any late payment or over limit fees  Im satisfied that it was fair 
and reasonable for Barclays to have concluded that Mr M would in all likelihood be 
able to have afforded the increasing of his credit limit to £7,000 such that it wasnt 
unfair or irresponsible for Barclays to have offered that credit limit increase to Mr M at 
that time.
In regard to the second credit limit increase in August 2016, from £7,000 to £11,000,
Barclays again obtained information from a credit reference agency before offering 
this credit limit increase to Mr M, and again the credit reference agency suggested 
that the credit limit increase would be affordable for Mr M at that time based on its 
assessment of Mr Ms wider financial position.
Having reviewed Mr Ms current account statements for the months leading up to this 
credit limit increase, its evident that Mr M had a regular source of income from which 
he was receiving approximately £1,350 per month. In addition, it appears as though 
Mr M may have had at least one other source of regular income from which he was 
receiving approximately £460 per month. In contrast, its evident that Mr M was 
making regular payments to his existing credit commitments at that time of about 
£675 per month.
Mr Ms overall existing other credit balance appears to have been similar to before, 
with the total external credit card balance having risen slightly whilst his external loan 
balance had moved in the opposite direction.
Its also notable that while Mr Ms current account balance had become further 
overdrawn, this continued to be within the agreed overdraft limit at that time. 
Furthermore, Mr Ms credit account statements show that he was maintaining the 
balance of the credit account well within the £7,000 credit limit, which allowed Mr M 
to make a transfer of £2,685 from his credit account to reduce his external current 
account overdraft balance in July 2016, the month before the credit limit increase.
It could be argued that the act of Mr M using a large portion of his remaining Barclays 
credit account limit balance to repay other borrowing, in the form of his external 
current account overdraft, could be seen as an indicator that Mr M was struggling to 
manage his existing credit such that the further provision of credit might not be 
affordable for him.But balance transfers such as this are a common way of reducing the monthly 
repayment burden of existing credit. And importantly, Mr M was able to keep the 
balance of his Barclays credit account well under the £7,000 limit even having made 
this transfer, and the transfer benefitted from a 0% interest promotional offer with 
Barclays until March the following year, and so didnt lead to any increase in Mr Ms 
total level of indebtedness but appears to have been financially beneficial to him.
Overall, while I have more concerns with this credit limit increase than with the first, 
given that this limit increase is to the relatively high amount of £11,000, I dont feel 
that the information available to me supports the conclusion that the assessment of 
the credit reference agency that Mr M would most likely be able to afford this credit 
limit increase was unreasonable here, or that an unfair outcome has occurred as a 
result of Barclays offering the credit limit increase to Mr B as a result of their 
accepting the assessment of the credit reference agency in this regard. As such, Im 
satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to have concluded that Mr M 
would most likely have been able to afford this credit limit increase and to have 
subsequently offered it to him.
Finally, at the time of the third, relatively small credit limit increase, in August 2017, 
from £11,000 to £11,500, its evident that Mr Ms overall financial position had 
improved considerably. His total amount of external existing credit had reduced from 
approximately £12,200 to £2,900 and he was no longer using his overdraft on his 
external current account. Furthermore, Mr M was maintaining the balance of his 
Barclays credit account at around the £5,500 mark, which was well within the 
£11,000 credit limit. As such, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Barclays to have 
offered Mr M this final credit limit increase on his account.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Barclays acted unfairly or
unreasonably by offering the credit limit increases to Mr M that they did here. Rather, 
Im satisfied that the assessments of Mr Ms wider financial position at those times by 
the credit reference agency, on which Barclays relied, were accurate to a reasonable 
degree and that an unfair outcome didnt arise as a result of Barclays reliance on 
these assessments.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr M and Barclays the opportunity to provide 
any comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a 
final decision. Barclays confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional decision, 
whereas Mr M ask me to consider some additional points.
First among these is the fact that the bank account statements which I reviewed when 
seeking to confirm whether the assessment of credit affordability provided to Barclays by the 
credit reference agency was accurate or not actually refer to a joint bank account held in the 
names of Mr M and his wife. Mr M pointed out that this meant that the bank statements had 
a record of both his and his wifes income and spending, and suggested that this therefore 
didnt represent an accurate picture of his own finances at that time.
I can appreciate Mr Ms point here. But given that the bank account is a joint account, it 
follows that it is appropriate for the assessment of Mr Ms affordability to have been 
conducted using the information within that account. This is because both parties have full 
access to all money held within a joint account. And, while Mr M was applying for the credit 
account in his sole name, given that this joint account was his primary current account  as 
evidenced from Mr Ms salary being paid into the account  this means that it isnt the case 
the an affordability assessment conducted using an assessment of that joint account is 
inappropriate or incorrect.As such, it remains my position that the Barclays were entitled to include in their affordability 
assessment the information provided to them by the credit reference agency about this bank 
account, and also that there was nothing resulting from that information which should have 
given Barclays cause to suspect that Mr M might not be able to afford the credit being 
offered to him.
Mr M has also mentioned that he made several balance transfers from his credit account into 
the joint current account to reduce the level of overdraft on the account, and feels that this 
should be taken as an indicator that he was struggling financially at that time.
Again, I can appreciate why Mr M might hold this point of view. But it should be noted that 
using a credit card to reduce an overdraft isnt necessarily an indicator of financial difficulty, 
and it can be a reasonable and effective money management option where the headroom 
remains within a credit facility to make payments to an current account to avoid potential 
charges and where the credit limit on the credit account isnt exceeded. And its notable that 
the credit limit on the credit account wasnt exceeded by Mr M when making these transfers 
in this instance.  
Additionally, in order for me to consider that such balance transfers constituted a clear 
indicator of potential financial difficulty, Id generally expect this to be in conjunction with 
other indicators of potential financial difficulty, such as the spending on the account being 
limited to essential expenditure or the customer being unable to maintain the accounts within 
the agreed credit and overdraft limits. However, these other indicators of potential financial 
difficulty arent present in this instance.
Finally, Mr M has stated that the reason that his financial position improved considerably at 
the time of the last credit limit increase was because he took further borrowing to pay off his 
debts. However, this further borrowing doesnt appear to have been recorded on Mr Ms 
credit file, which showed a considerable reduction in his other credit commitments and no 
indication of additional borrowing, and so I dont feel that I can reasonably expect Barclays to 
have assessed anything other than that Mr Ms overall level of debt had reduced at that time.
Ultimately, the question here is whether it was reasonable for Barclays, on the basis of the 
information that they gathered, to have concluded that Mr M would, in all likelihood, have 
been able to afford the credit being offered to him, both at the time of the initial credit 
account application and the later credit limit increases. 
Importantly, the question here isnt whether Mr M was in financial difficulty at those times but 
is limited to whether it was reasonable for Barclays to have concluded that he wasnt in 
financial difficulty based on the information that they assessed. 
And, having considered the information that Barclays gathered, Im satisfied that the 
information was accurate as it related to the joint bank account and Mr Ms other credit 
commitments at those times, and Im satisfied that there was nothing that should have 
resulted from the assessments of that information that should have given Barclays cause to 
suspect that Mr M might not be able to afford the credit being offered to him, such that it 
shouldnt have been offered.
All of which means that it remains my position that Barclays havent acted unreasonably or 
unfairly here by offering the credit to Mr M that they did, and it follows from this that my final 
decision here will be in line with that as outlined in my earlier provisional decision and will be 
that I wont be upholding this complaint.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M wanted, but I hope that hell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman