DRN-3934799
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Revolut Ltd wont refund a payment for an item he says he returned to 
a retailer.
What happened
Mr M purchased an expensive bag using his Revolut debit card. He decided to return the 
bag to the retailer and a courier was arranged to collect it. Mr M says the courier collected 
the bag  as evidenced by a text message exchange. 
As he didnt receive a refund, he asked Revolut to dispute the payment through the 
chargeback scheme. It contacted the retailer, but the retailer said that the bag hadnt been 
returned and the text message exchange provided by Mr M had been altered. The real 
conversation, it claimed, showed that the bag had not been returned and someone else had 
been living at the address Mr M gave for collection. Given that evidence, Revolut decided 
not to challenge the chargeback further.
Mr M referred the matter to our service, but one of our investigators didnt uphold his 
complaint. They thought that the text message evidence provided by Mr M didnt accurately 
reflect what had happened. They also thought that an email from the retailer which Mr M had 
provided appeared to only show that Mr M had contacted it  rather than the retailer 
confirming collection. 
Mr M didnt agree, he said that he could provide evidence of when he was and wasnt living 
at the address in question. He also said that the package had been scanned by the courier 
and suggested that they might have taken the bag.
No further evidence has been provided by Mr M and the case has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut is generally not responsible for refunding its customers in situations such as this  
where a debit card has been used to make a purchase and a customer claims not to have 
received a refund after returning goods. Instead, it should challenge the payment through the 
chargeback scheme, as it did here. 
The retailer provided a defence to that claim and my role is to decide whether Revolut acted 
fairly in deciding not to pursue the matter further (by submitting further evidence to the 
retailer and, if necessary, asking the card scheme to arbitrate the dispute).
Revolut received compelling evidence from the retailer that Mr M had altered a text message 
conversation in such a way as to suggest that the bag had been collected, when the 
unaltered version would suggest the opposite. 
That conversation is copied below. The lines in bold are those which are missing from the 
evidence submitted by Mr M
Mr M: Are you here
Courier: Yes
Mr M: OK please come up
Courier: There is a new tenant at 33
Mr M: Thank you for collecting
Courier: Can you answer the phone please
Im satisfied its far more likely that it was Mr M that altered the messages rather than the 
courier. I say this because its very easy to delete messages from a text message 
conversation, but much more difficult to add messages. And, even Mr Ms record of the 
conversation doesnt contain any confirmation by the courier that the bag was collected  
just Mr M apparently thanking the courier for collecting it (which, in any case, strikes me as a 
little unusual).
Im also not persuaded by Mr Ms email from the retailer. It is an acknowledgement of an 
email sent by Mr M. It does not confirm that the bag was collected, only that Mr M said that it 
had been. 
Though Mr M has said that he will provide a tenancy agreement to show where he was living 
at the time, I dont think this is particularly relevant.  Ultimately, the retailer was able to 
provide compelling evidence that Mr M had altered evidence in an attempt to demonstrate 
the bag had been collected. I think this was sufficient grounds for Revolut not to take the 
matter any further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman