DRN-3400380
The complaint
Mr D complains about the decision by Unum Ltd to turn down his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr D is covered under his employers group income protection scheme. The policy pays 
benefit for a maximum of five years in the event Mr D cant work because of illness or 
injury. The policy has a deferred period of 26 weeks.
On 1 August 2019, Mr D stopped work and attributed this to workplace stress. He 
submitted a claim to Unum, however, this was turned down as Unum didnt think he met 
the policy definition of incapacity. Unhappy with this, Mr D brought a complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Unums 
claims decision had been reasonable.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 March 2022. Heres what I said:
The policy explains that for benefit to be paid, the member must be incapacitated. It 
says a member is incapacitated if they are:
Unable, by reason for their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the Insured occupation.
Mr D would need to show this to be the case throughout the 26-week deferred period 
(from 1 August 2019 to 30 January 2020).
I see that Mr D stopped work because hed been experiencing headaches for a month 
and he was feeling more tired than usual. Throughout August 2019, Mr D continued to 
see his GP regularly and reported muscle aches, as well as some stress and anxiety 
related symptoms. His GP started him on a low dose of antidepressant medication, and 
mentioned that Mr D had been experiencing stress at work. The GP also said that 
Mr Ds condition of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) had been flaring, and that he had 
poor concentration.
In September and October 2019, Mr D continued to report feeling anxious and having a 
low mood, as well as widespread pain and exhaustion. He continued to report poor 
concentration and his medication was increased. The GP referred Mr D to a talking 
therapy service, who arranged for Mr D to attend a managing moods workshop.
By November 2019, Mr D found the medication was starting to help, though the thought 
of returning to work made him anxious. In December 2019 Mr D continued to report 
fatigue, joint and muscle pain and poor concentration.
Mr D spoke with Unum in December 2019, and explained he still had joint and muscle 
pain, numerous headaches and wasnt sleeping well. He said he was forgetful, especially 
in the short-term. Mr D also advised Unum that he felt his job was more stressful as the 
years go by, as there was too much demand placed on employees.
Also at the end of 2019, Mr Ds GP referred him to a fatigue clinic for his CFS symptoms.
Mr Ds GP later wrote a letter to confirm that Mr D had CFS and an anxiety disorder. She 
explained that Mr Ds medication was being used to treat both conditions. She said he had 
two significant diagnoses which have multi-factorial causes and thought these fully 
explained his long-term absence from work.
Unums company medical officer (who is a consultant psychiatrist) didnt think the 
evidence supported that Mr Ds conditions caused a sustained impairment to function 
throughout the whole deferred period. I would agree with that. Its apparent that Mr D was 
experiencing some symptoms of CFS and stress and anxiety, though the talking therapies 
service only arranged for Mr D to attend a managing moods workshop. I think Unum 
makes a reasonable point that this doesnt suggest a need for high intensity psychological 
therapy. I dont find the evidence to be particularly compelling in terms of demonstrating 
that Mr D was so incapacitated by his symptoms that he couldnt work throughout the 
whole of the deferred period.
Having said that, it does seem that Mr Ds symptoms may have worsened towards the 
end of the deferred period  his medication was increased, and he was referred to 
secondary care for his CFS symptoms.
Mr D also says his conditions have worsened with increasing symptoms. Hes provided 
information in the year after the deferred period ended  including evidence from a nurse 
at the fatigue clinic, a manual therapist, and a consultant psychiatrist. Mr D made a 
successful application for the governments Employment and Support Allowance (ESA) 
and was accepted into the support group. He was also awarded the governments 
Personal Independence Payment. Finally, Mr D says his consultant rheumatologist has 
said that he couldnt work.
The policy says that if Unum declines a claim because the member doesnt meet the 
definition of incapacity, but the member doesnt return to work, then a new claim can 
be submitted if their condition worsens. This would need to be within a year of the end 
of the initial deferred period.
I havent taken the evidence available after the deferred period into account, as this 
was outside the relevant period that Unum considered when making its claims 
decision. I appreciate Unum considered some of this evidence in order to see if it 
supported that Mr D met the definition of incapacity throughout the deferred period. 
But given that some of the evidence was quite some time after the end of the 
deferred period, it seems to me that it would be more appropriate for Unum to look at 
all the medical evidence in the year 31 January 2020  30 January 2021, in order to 
decide whether Mr D satisfies the policy definition of incapacity throughout a 26-week 
deferred period in this year.
I asked both parties for any comments they wished to make before I made a final 
decision. 
Unum responded to say it had no further comments. 
Mr D responded and made the following main points:
He would like me to read his previous letter dated 27 January 2022.He was unaware that hed have to prove his illness to such detail within the 
26-week deferred period. He assumed that by seeing his GP every week and 
receiving a sick note that this would be satisfactory. He says the information in 
Unums policy explains how to file a claim, and doesnt say anywhere that 
specialised clinical reports are needed.
Unum kept mentioning that he had workplace and personal issues as if this 
was a factor in their decision-making. However, theres nothing in the policy 
terms to say these issues were excluded.
Unum didnt tell him he should collect professional medical reports to confirm 
his illness.
Hes commented on evidence provided after the end of the deferred period.
He says the talking therapy service didnt only arrange the managing moods 
workshop, and he had one-to-one counselling over the phone by a 
psychologist.
He says its only after two and a half years that hes able to try high intensity 
therapy, and thinks this wouldve been premature for the state of his health at 
the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I havent addressed all of Mr Ds points in response to my provisional decision (this 
reflects the fact that were an informal complaint-handling service), Id like to reassure him 
that Ive carefully considered all his comments. Having done so, I remain of the view 
expressed in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Mr D has asked me to read his letter dated 27 January 2022, as this was drafted by a legal 
professional on his behalf. I can confirm that Id read that letter and took into account the 
points before I made my provisional decision. 
The policy lists documents that are needed to allow Unum to assess the claim (such as a 
consent form, and medical records). However, the policy terms make it clear that Mr D would 
need to show he meets the policy definition of incapacity throughout the deferred period for a 
claim to be payable. Whilst I appreciate Mr D was signed off by his GP as unfit to work for 
this period, in my view, the evidence from the GP isnt enough to confirm that his functional 
limitations were such that he couldnt have performed the main duties of his role. 
Mr D is unhappy that Unum thought his absence was related to workplace and personal 
issues. I would assume Unum mentioned these issues because for a claim to be payable, 
Mr D would need to show he was unable to work in his occupation because of illness or 
injury. Therefore, if it were the case that Mr D couldnt work because of workplace or 
personal issues, then his claim wouldnt be covered. However, to be clear, I havent found 
this to be the case.  
Mr D says Unum didnt tell him he should collect professional medical reports. However, this 
isnt a requirement. Unum will take into account a members medical records, and opinions 
provided by treating doctors before making a claims decision.Mr D has referred to evidence provided after the deferred period had ended, so I wont 
comment on that here.  
I can confirm I was aware that Mr D had received telephone support from the talking 
therapies service before they decided to refer him for a managing moods workshop. 
Im not medically qualified, so I cant comment on Mr Ds view that high intensity therapy 
wouldve been premature for the state of his health at the time. Unums company medical 
officer thought the support that Mr D had received in the deferred period from the talking 
therapies service wasnt indicative of a mental health condition that had caused him 
impairment to function, and I thought that seemed reasonable, based on the available 
evidence.
Overall, I remain of the view that Unums decision to turn down Mr Ds claim was 
reasonable. Though I recognise that theres later evidence which would suggest that Mr D's 
condition may have worsened, and so I remain satisfied that a reasonable way forward 
would be for Unum to consider this, in line with the terms of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that Unum Ltd should consider whether Mr D has a valid claim in the 
year 31 January 2020  30 January 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman