DRN-3796937
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance applied a late payment marker to his credit 
record without taking into account his circumstances and this has adversely affected his 
business 
What happened
Mr M moved his personal bank account from one provider to another and had to manually 
change all of his direct debits and payments. 
In the process, one of his direct debits, for a loan repayment to Tesco, wasnt set up 
correctly and a payment was missed. 
Tesco contacted Mr M and advised him that his payment was overdue, and he made two 
payments immediately, the overdue payment, and the final payment which he made early.  
He later became aware that Tesco had applied a late payment marker to his credit record. 
Mr M tells us he has an otherwise perfect credit record, and this has impacted his personal 
and business banking, and so he asked Tesco to remove the marker.  
Tesco refused to remove the marker, saying they had correctly reported the missed payment 
and it was Mr Ms responsibility to ensure that payments were made.  However, the awarded 
Mr M £25 as they said that he should have been advised when he made the payment that 
the late marker would still be applied. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.  He thought that Tesco had fairly applied the 
late marker as they have a duty to correctly report to credit reference agencies. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators findings, and so the matter came to me to review.  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
Looking at the loan history as a whole, Mr M has made all of his payments by direct debit on 
time until 25 January 2022. There have been no other late or missed payments. In addition, 
as soon as he realised that the payment had been missed, which was 15 days afterwards, 
Mr M made not only that payment, but the final payment which was due in February to clear 
the loan, paying it off early. 
By way of explanation of how the missed payment occurred, Mr M has told us that he was 
forced to change current accounts in January 2022 as he had paid off his mortgage, and 
was unable to retain his personal bank account with his provider as it was a mortgage linked 
account. He chose to move to another current account provider but was unable to take 
advantage of the Switch Guarantee as the accounts were not of the same kind, and so he 
had to manually set up all his direct debit payments again. For whatever reason, the 
payment to Tesco wasnt set up in time for the payment on 25 January 2022 and so it was 
missed.
I can see that Tesco have applied the late payment marker as a result this, and I understand 
their obligations to report late and missed payments correctly to the credit reference 
agencies. And so, in this regard they havent done anything wrong, so I appreciate why they 
are not minded to remove it.
However, they do have the discretion not to report the late payment marker if the 
circumstances are such that reporting it wouldnt be fair or proportionate, and Mr M has 
asked Tesco to consider exercising that discretion in his case and remove the marker.  
Im not satisfied that Tesco have taken full account of the circumstances and exercised their 
discretion fairly in this case. 
It does seem to me that looking at the whole history, the circumstances of the missed 
payment, the swift resolution by Mr M, and the significant impact it has had, that if Tesco 
exercised their discretion fairly and proportionately, the marker would have not been 
reported, or could have been removed. And so, on that basis, I am minded to uphold this 
complaint and direct that Tesco remove the late payment marker. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent Mr M and Tesco a copy of my provisional decision. 
Both have replied. Tesco have disagreed with my provisional decision. They dont accept 
that Mr M has any mitigating circumstances which mean that the default should be removed, 
and that they have considered the circumstances, but they consider it fair and reasonable to 
report the late payment. They also say that It simply doesnt matter that Mr M consistently 
made his payments on time up until this occurrence or paid his final payment. The fact of the 
matter is, a payment was received late and was reported correctly and accurately to the 
CRAs, which we are obligated to so. 
The ICOs Principles for Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults to Credit 
Reference Agencies says that if a consumer doesnt make a regular expected payment 
according to the terms and conditions of the loan, the account may be reported to the CRAs 
as being in arrears. It also says that any reporting should be done fairly.  
Whilst I accept Tesco have a duty to report accurately, and the reporting of this late payment 
is accurate,  I dont agree that it is fair and reasonable to report it in the circumstances, 
looking at Mr Ms account management as a whole and the reason for the late payment. It 
seems to me to be wholly disproportionate in circumstances where Mr M has missed one 
payment date, in error, due to complications during moving his personal account. He has 
remedied the late payment within 15 days, as well as paying off the rest of the loan in full. I 
disagree with Tesco that these circumstances simply dont matter.  
  
Mr M has also replied. He accepted my provisional decision but has asked me to consider 
awarding compensation for the impact that the late payment marker has had on his 
business. I have considered this, but I wont be making any award in respect of the alleged 
losses for two reasons. Firstly, the subject of the complaint only relates to Mr Ms personal 
banking arrangements, and so I can only consider any impact it may have had on him 
personally, not any detriment to his business, and secondly, as I have said, Tescos report of 
the late payment is accurate as Mr Ms loan payment wasnt paid in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the loan, and I would only consider making an award for financial 
detriment where an error has been made by Tesco.      In view of this, Im making my final decision for the reasons Ive summarised above. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Tesco should remove the late payment marker from Mr Ms credit file. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that Im upholding Mr Ms complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
to put things right as above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman