DRN-2792564
The complaint
 Mr A complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a Conditional Sale Agreement 
with Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance (Close Brothers).
 
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and were set out in detail in the 
investigators opinion of 29 January 2021, so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill 
focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im in agreement with 
the investigators opinion. Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and
regulations regulator's rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated finance agreement. As such, our service is
able to consider complaints relating to it. Close Brothers, as the finance provider, is therefore
responsible for a complaint about the quality of the goods purchased under the agreement.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says that under a contract to supply goods, there is
an implied term that "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". To be considered satisfactory,
the goods must meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider to be
satisfactory  taking into account any description of the goods and all the other relevant
circumstances in the case, such as the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the
vehicles history.
This car was around seven years old when Mr A purchased it on 30 May 2020, and it had 
travelled around 62,000 miles so a reasonable person would expect there to be some 
degree of wear and tear. That said, Mr A noticed a number of faults within days of taking 
receipt and was advised by the dealership to have it repaired and it would pay the invoice. It 
then failed to pay the invoice, only offering £200 towards the cost of the repairs. 
Close Brothers subsequently agreed these faults were present at the point of sale as Mr A 
noticed them within days and paid the remainder of the invoice to the garage. These repairs 
were then accepted. But on 22 July 2020, the turbo failed. Mr A took the car to an 
independent garage who confirmed an incorrect seal had been fitted to the car after 
manufacture and there was also an issue with the oil intake pipe. It quoted a repair cost of 
£1,814.74. The car has not been driveable since then and since Mr A took ownership it has 
travelled around 4,000 miles.
I appreciate the dealership wanted Mr A to take the car to them for inspection. But given it is 
250 miles from his home and the car was limited to 25 mph due to the issue with the turbo, I 
agree with the investigator when I say I dont think is was unreasonable of Mr A to take it to a 
third-party garage. I have no reason to doubt the opinion of the third party and as the 
dealership had previously suggested Mr A use a local garage for repairs, Im not persuaded 
by its objections now.
I have looked carefully at the garage report and Im satisfied the fault was more than likely 
present at the point of sale and not something that Mr A has caused during the limited time 
of ownership.
The conditional sale agreement was signed on 30 May 2020, the first issues were noticed on 
01 June 2020 and the turbo failed on 22 July 2020. In my view, the car is of unsatisfactory 
quality and as the dealership and by extension the finance company has already had one 
attempt to repair the car and then further issues have arisen, Mr A should be allowed to 
reject the car.
Im also aware as the car was not driveable Mr A has had to purchase another vehicle, 
which as cause him further trouble and upset alongside the toing and froing to the garage for 
repairs.
 My final decision
  For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and I direct Close Brothers Limited to:
 End the agreement with nothing further to pay
 Mark the agreement as settled on Mr As credit file
 Collect the car at no cost to Mr A
 Refund the payments Mr A has made from 22 July 2020
 Refund the deposit paid plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date
of settlement
 Pay £200.00 compensation for trouble and upset caused by this matter
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman