DRN-4131636
The complaint
Miss H and Mr W complain that Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited trading as Moneybox gave 
them the wrong figures as to what their lender would lend on their property. In order to make 
up the difference they sold Miss Hs car which proved to be unnecessary. As a result, they
have had a financial loss by selling the car and having to buy a similar one back.
What happened
Miss H and Mr W used Moneybox as a broker to access a loan to purchase a new 
residential property and needed to borrow the maximum available. The purchase price was 
agreed at £135,000. In June 2021, the Moneybox adviser assigned to their case told Miss H 
that her lender had valued the property at £125,000 which meant that the maximum loan 
available at 95% loan to value (LTV) was £118,750.00. The broker told them that they 
would need to access an additional £10,000 to complete the purchase. Miss H and Mr W 
negotiated a reduction in the price of £4,000. They now faced a £6,000 shortfall - in addition 
to the shortfall they had budgeted for - and Miss H sold her car.
But when the mortgage offer came from lender, there was a retention of £1,000 but the 
property was valued at £130,000 with a maximum loan amount of £123,500 (less £1,000 
retention). Moneybox says that it was acting on information provided to it by the lender. Miss 
H says that the incorrect information forced her to sell her car and to put her back in the 
position she had been in - to replace the car - would require compensation in excess of 
£3,000.
Our investigators view
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part and recommended compensation of £300 for 
Miss H and Mr Ws distress and inconvenience but didnt feel that they had been financially 
disadvantaged. Miss H and Mr W disagreed saying in summary that the misinformation from 
Moneybox forced Miss H to sell a car and that the replacement cost including interest on a 
loan requires fair compensation.
My Provisional Decision
As my view of this complaint differed in part from our investigator and as I came to my 
conclusions based on different reasons I issued a Provisional Decision as follows. I said:
There is no doubt that a mistake was made here by the mortgage adviser. It appears that 
the adviser understood that with the property being downvalued in its current state that the 
lender would base its valuation on that value and would only lend, on her calculations. 
£118,750.00. In fact, the lender was willing to lend £123,500 less retention. 
In one sense this all turned out alright for Miss H and Mr W. Following the brokers error, 
they were able to negotiate a reduction in the price of their house which has led to a 
reduction in the mortgage from the original application for £128,049.00 to the accepted offer 
of £123,500. That works out as a saving on the mortgage of about £4,500 together with the 
interest on that which would be paid over the lifetime of the mortgage. 
The difficulty they faced was that besides getting a reduction on the property price, they 
understood they would have to get more money to make up the difference between the 
£131,500 and the incorrect figure of £118, 750 or £12,750. I note in the application form that 
their joint income is £75,000 and they had savings of £7,000. So, about £6,000 was 
required. Ms H thought it best to sell the car which seems to have been a very expensive 
way of financing this given that Ms H says that now to put her back on the road with a similar 
car would now cost in excess of £3,000.
I do accept that theres a financial cost to Miss H and Mr W of the brokers mistake. Fair 
compensation for them would be the costs of borrowing the £6,000 for the period that they 
needed it. That would be the usual way of raising the money and Miss H and Mr W had joint 
incomes of £75,000 and in stable employment and its reasonable to assume they would 
have access to borrowing that amount of money. But this money would have only been 
required for a short period and the loan then redeemed. 
On the other hand, I have to set off the benefit that accrued to Miss H and Mr W from this 
misinformation. As set out above, they negotiated a lower price and had to pay a lower 
mortgage as a result. I appreciate that part of the impetus to approach the estate agent was 
from the downvaluation and part from being told that they would have to borrow money as a 
result of the mistake.  But in any case, it seems to me that the financial benefit that accrued 
to Miss H and Mr W far outweighs any financial compensation that I would consider 
awarding them. So, I dont consider on balance that they suffered a financial loss. But this 
error must have been upsetting to them at a particularly stressful time when they were 
moving into their first home and had them looking for extra finance that they didnt need. Im 
also sure that they must have found it upsetting that Moneybox didnt admit its error and 
apologise to them for it. 
Finally, I said that I intended to uphold this complaint and award Miss H and Mr W 
compensation of £500. I invited Miss H and Mr W and Moneybox to consider my Provisional 
Decision and if they wished to provide me with further evidence or make further submissions 
to do so by 28 April 2023. Miss H and Mr W accepted my Provisional Decision and 
Moneybox didnt provide further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out in my Provisional Decision the reasons why I came to my conclusions. I note that 
since issuing this decision, Miss H and Mr W have confirmed they are happy with it and 
Moneybox make no further comments. In light of this and after considering the evidence and 
my Provisional Decision again I am content that it represents a fair outcome to this complaint 
and so I will be upholding it for the reasons and on the terms set out in my Provisional 
Decision.
Putting things right
Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited trading as Moneybox should pay pay Miss H and Mr W 
£500.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited trading as Moneybox to 
pay Miss H and Mr W £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman