DRN-2717792
The complaint
Mr U complained because TSB Bank PLC refused to refund him for his fraud claim.
What happened
Mr U said that in January 2020 he sold a phone. Two cheques were paid into his TSB 
account on 7 January. One was for £800 and the other for £80.
The bank on which the cheques were drawn refused to pay them. So the £800 and £80 
which had credited Mr Us account the previous day were both debited. TSB wrote to tell Mr 
U that the cheques had been sent back unpaid, with the reason Payment stopped. 
Mr U phoned TSB on 10 January. He said hed sold a phone through an online website. The 
man hed sold it to had phoned someone to pay money into Mr Us TSB account. Mr U said 
he had checked his bank account, and when he saw the credit, hed handed over the phone. 
Mr U said hed thought the money had been paid by bank transfer, but it turned out someone 
had paid cheques in.
TSBs adviser initially said it looked as if whoever had paid in the cheques had then said 
they didnt want them paid in after all. She checked, and said the cheques had been stopped 
by the payer. She explained that a cheque could be stopped within 6 days, and advised Mr 
U in future not to hand over goods until after that time if someone was paying by cheque. 
She suggested he should speak to TSBs community banking fraud team, which would look 
at whether it could get the money back from the bank on which the cheques were drawn.
Mr U rang TSBs community banking fraud team. They said it hadnt been fraud, but the 
cheques had bounced. So Mr U would have to get in touch with the person hed sold the 
phone to. Mr U said surely it was fraud, because hed given his bank details to his customer, 
who had paid in then bounced the cheques. 
The adviser transferred Mr U to another team. He explained what had happened. Mr U was 
put on hold, and some minutes later the call ended. 
Mr U complained to TSB because it wouldnt refund him with the £880, and because the call 
had been cut off. In its final response, TSB said it had reviewed the fraud teams decision not 
to agree Mr Us claim, and it considered it was the right decision. TSB suggested that Mr U 
should contact the website where hed sold the phone, and the police. TSB also said it had 
listened to the call recording on 10 January, and it hadnt been the agent who had cut off the 
call.
Mr U wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said TSB hadnt looked at his 
complaint fully. He said hed been told hed get a full refund because it had been fraud. Mr U 
said it had caused him a lot of stress, and £880 was a lot of money to lose. He wanted his 
money back and compensation for the frustration which TSB had put him through.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Us complaint. He explained that TSB wouldnt have had 
full details about why the cheques had been stopped, because that would only have been 
known to the bank on which the cheques were drawn. The investigator got in touch with that 
bank, which told him the whole chequebook had been cancelled on 6 January because the 
customer claimed it had been stolen. So the investigator explained to Mr U that it was quite 
possible the person hed sold the phone to hadnt been the real account holder. And as Mr U 
had handed over the phone before the money had fully cleared into his account, it was a 
buyer-seller dispute, which hed have to take up with the buyer. The investigator recognised 
that it had caused Mr U distress and inconvenience, but he couldnt reasonably ask TSB to 
refund the money after the cheques had been stopped.
Mr U didnt agree. He said he was furious with the outcome which was unacceptable. He 
said TSBs website clearly said that it gave a fraud refund guarantee. He said hed been told 
it was fraud on the phone, so he should be given the refund. He also said TSB had told him 
hed get it money back, so TSB had lied to him.
The investigator replied that hed listened to the calls TSB had sent us, and these didnt 
show TSB had guaranteed a refund. He said that the TSB website guarantee provided 
protection when someone had suffered a loss from their TSB account. As the money from 
the cheques hadnt entered Mr Us account, it wasnt considered a loss from the account. 
The investigator also asked for evidence such as screenshots about the phone Mr U had 
said hed sold, and receipts from wherever Mr U himself had originally bought the phone. 
And he asked for confirmation that the £880 selling price had been agreed by the buyer. He 
asked Mr U to reply within two weeks, but Mr U didnt reply. As Mr U had previously asked 
for an ombudsman decision, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that suffering a loss through fraud is very upsetting. And I can see that Mr U is 
frustrated and annoyed because he believes he should have a refund. 
As the investigator told Mr U, the bank on which the two cheques were drawn has told this 
service that the chequebook on which they were drawn had been reported as stolen on 6 
January. This was why the cheques were bounced by the bank on which they were drawn.  
Ive listened to the phone recordings which TSB supplied to this service. These were Mr Us 
initial call, and when he rang back the next day. In these calls, TSB didnt say that Mr U 
would be refunded. The first adviser was sympathetic, and when she asked Mr U to ring 
back the next day to speak to the Community Fraud Team, she said TSB would do all it 
could to get Mr Us money back. On the call the next day, Mr U was put on hold for a long 
time, and it was understandable that he found this frustrating. But there was no promise of a 
definite refund on either call. So I cant agree with Mr U that TSB told him it would refund him 
and then went back on that.
Ive also looked at TSBs fraud protection guarantee on its website. This says if youre an 
innocent victim of fraud on your TSB account, we will refund the money you lost from your 
account.  But the problem is that the fraud which Mr U has described, didnt take place on 
his TSB account. What hes described was a situation where he was selling a phone, and he 
handed it over, but the buyer never paid any valid money to Mr U for the phone. It wasnt 
that money was stolen by fraud from Mr Us account, which is what the website wording 
appears to cover. Here, the buyer simply didnt pay. He might have tricked Mr U into thinking 
the money had been paid, by getting someone to pay in cheques from a stolen chequebook. But in reality no real, valid, money had been paid by the buyer. So I cant say that Mr U lost 
money out of his account, because it was never really paid in.
I do understand that Mr U was upset by what happened. In cases like this, the real person at 
fault is the fraudster. But for the reasons Ive explained above, I cant say that TSB was at 
fault for debiting the bounced cheques from Mr Us account; or for not refunding him for the 
money which might have been due to him but which never actually reached his TSB account 
as real, valid money.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman