DRN-3164799
The complaint
Mr G has complained National Westminster Bank Plc wont check with him before any 
transaction  whether authorised by debit card, online banking, direct debit or other payment 
method  debits his current account.
What happened
Mr G has held an account with NatWest for nearly 15 years. In September 2020 he 
complained a direct debit had been set up without his authorisation. The first payment for 
£9.99 had been collected by the originating company. As hed not set up this payment 
arrangement, Mr G complained to NatWest.
NatWest cancelled the direct debit instruction and immediately refunded £9.99 to Mr Gs 
account.
Mr G felt this wasnt sufficient and wanted NatWest to confirm that no payment would be 
debited from his account without his prior confirmation. NatWest explained they didnt have 
the facilities to offer this service. There were a number of services which allowed a customer 
to check their account and understand what payments were being made and were pending 
with minimal fuss. In any case in using a debit card  or making an online or mobile banking 
payment  a customer was specifically authorising that transaction to be made.
Mr G was unhappy with this. He felt undue onus remained on the individual. He brought his 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator explained that NatWests stance was not unusual. Banks didnt generally 
offer the service Mr G requested and it was not within our power to make them do this. If 
Mr G had concerns about any individual transactions he felt were unauthorised, he firstly had 
to raise these with NatWest. This allowed NatWest time to investigate before our service 
was able to get involved. In any case as NatWest had refunded Mr G and cancelled the 
direct debit instruction, he didnt feel there was anything further they should do.
Mr G didnt agree this should be the case. He felt we should be doing more to protect his 
account.
An ombudsman has been asked to make a decision on Mr Gs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr G has raised a number of issues in his correspondence with us. Ive reviewed all of these 
but have concentrated below on what I believe are the key issues of his complaint.
Firstly its worth clarifying our services role. Were not the regulator for financial institutions. 
That role belongs to the Financial Conduct Authority. We do not make decisions which 
require systemic change within the industry. Whilst I can specify change that relates to an 
individual customer, it has to correspond to the issues of the complaint and be of a 
magnitude that reflects the nature of the complaint.
This isnt the case here. Whilst I understand how upsetting being a victim of fraud can be, 
the correct resolution is to ensure refunds are made and compensation is awarded, if thats 
considered to be appropriate.
In Mr Gs situation, a fraudulent direct debit was set up in his name. Mr G noticed this. 
NatWest rectified the situation immediately. Mr G was refunded. There was no delay in 
NatWest taking action so I think they took action as Id expect. It wouldnt be fair to ask them 
to provide any further redress to Mr G as I cant see that this had any specific impact on him.
Unfortunately NatWest cant explain how the direct debit was set up. Ive not seen anything 
which suggests any error on their part. The rules of the direct debiting scheme enable 
flexible direct debit instructions to be set up remotely. Banks dont know what the direct debit 
is for or how much it will be until the originating company uses the interbank payment 
scheme to collect the money owed. But as direct debiting is an interbank payment scheme  
and apart from the protection offered to customers under Payment Services legislation  
there are customer guarantees which ensure customers are refunded promptly and without 
dispute.
As far as I can see these rules were met.
Banks do have a responsibility to monitor account use and Id expect them to take action if 
unusual activity is identified. Again this one-off direct debit for only £9.99 wouldnt fall into 
this category.
It doesnt seem at all proportionate to expect NatWest to get individual permission for every 
transaction. Firstly they dont offer this service. But they do offer other services  apps, 
online banking, mini statements at cash machines  which provide up-to-date information to 
customers to enable them to spot any discrepancies with their account. 
I note NatWests terms and conditions state:
If you think that someone else might know your card or security details or if you suspect that 
someone may have used your account without your permission, please tell us as soon as 
possible
And along with the provisions of the Payment Services Regulations, there is an onus on the 
individual customer to take action about any disputed payments. I can appreciate Mr G may 
feel this is unfair. Why should he be obliged to point something out when hes done nothing 
wrong?
I dont really believe this is a major inconvenience although I understand he may be anxious 
like many of us are about the risk of fraud.
Having considered Mr Gs complaint, and his subsequent detailed correspondence, I wont 
be asking NatWest to do anything further. 
I know Mr G has asked our service to look into further transactions hes disputed. Our 
investigator explained we cant look into these until NatWest has had an opportunity to carry 
out its investigation. And even then these would be the subject of another complaint, and not 
this one.I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed by my decision but this now marks the end of our 
services consideration of his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Gs complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman