DRN-2930248
The complaint
Mr M and Ms Ms complaint is about a mortgage they held with Bank of Scotland plc (BoS). 
They are unhappy about how arrears on their mortgage were recorded on their credit files. 
Ms M believes that what BoS recoded on their credit files about the mortgage has prevented 
her from getting a new mortgage. 
What happened
Mr M and Ms M took a mortgage with BoS in 2007 to purchase a house. From 2013 they 
had times when they had difficulties paying the monthly mortgage payment and either 
missed payments or didnt pay the full amount. However, at other times they were making 
both the contractual monthly payment and an overpayment in order to reduce the arrears 
that had accumulated. 
At different points Mr M and Ms M entered into payment arrangements. The first of these in 
2015 allowed them to make reduced payments and so avoided additional account 
management charges. The letters sent to Mr M and Ms M at the time each arrangement was 
made/extended, confirmed that if they were paying less than the contractual payment, their 
account would accrue arrears based on the difference between the amount paid and the 
contractual monthly payment. The letters went on to confirm that if BoS currently provided 
information to credit reference agencies, that would continue and reflect the payment record. 
The mortgage was paid off in 2018.
Ms M complained to BoS in 2020 about the effect the arrears showing on her credit file was 
having on her. She asked that her credit file was amended.
BoS didnt uphold the complaint. It confirmed that the mortgage had fallen into arrears in 
March 2015. Reduced payments had been made until January 2016, so the arrears had 
increased. Although Mr M and Ms M had made most the contractual monthly payments 
thereafter and overpayments regularly to reduce the arrears, there had still been arrears on 
the mortgage when it was paid off in 2018. BoS explained that when reporting the status of a 
mortgage account to credit reference agencies, it is required to ensure it is reporting 
accurate data. As such missed payments, periods of formal payment arrangements and 
arrears were reported. BoS didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mr M and Ms M didnt accept BoS explanation and asked this service to consider their 
complaint. When doing so, Ms M explained that when they entered into the first payment 
arrangement, she was told it would have a minimal or reduced impact on her credit rating. 
Her understanding of that was that as soon as they entered into the payment arrangement, 
one negative note would be made on their credit files, but not for the whole duration of the 
arrears repayment. She explained that her understanding was that she was repaying the 
arrears, therefore their credit rating was intact, or minimally impacted.
It was also mentioned that Mr M and Ms M had concerns that the mortgage had been 
mis-sold in 2007 because it was interest-only with no repayment vehicle in place. However, 
they confirmed they didnt want us to consider this concern as their solicitors were pursuing it 
on their behalf separately.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She was satisfied that BoS had made Mr M and Ms M aware in 2015 the arrears on 
their account would be reported to credit reference agencies. As such, she didnt think it had 
done anything wrong in doing so.
Mr M and Ms M didnt accept the investigators conclusions. Ms M said that she didnt cause 
the situation, but she continues to be negatively impacted by it. She asked that we consider 
the mortgage in its entirety, including her concerns that the mortgage had been mis-sold.
Our investigator explained that, although Ms M found it unfair, the mortgage was a joint one 
and both parties to it had the same responsibility for it. So when the mortgage fell into 
arrears, as both parties were responsible for its payment, BoS had to report the status of the 
mortgage on both borrowers credit files. So BoS hadnt done anything wrong in doing what it 
did. 
Mr M and Ms M asked that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman. Ms M asked that the 
ombudsman focus on the lasting impact the negative credit rating was having on her as a 
working parent, in that it was preventing her from getting a mortgage to purchase another 
house. She said that since the arrears occurred on the BoS mortgage she had repaid them 
all herself and she has also been legally, financially disassociated from Mr M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my conclusions, I would confirm that this decision doesnt include an 
assessment of the original sale of Mr M and Mrs Ms mortgage. This is because those issues 
were not part of the complaint they raised with BoS and then referred to us. If they want us 
to consider the additional issues, they will need to raise the complaint with BoS in the first 
instance and, once it has had the opportunity to respond to the complaint, they can refer 
those concerns to this service. 
I can understand why Mr M and Ms M are unhappy about having the arrears on their former 
mortgage reported on their credit files. I accept this may well be causing them difficulties in 
obtaining credit arrangements. However, I can only require BoS to change what is recorded 
on the credit files if that information is wrong.
Ive reviewed the account history for Mr M and Ms Ms mortgage. BoS has recorded that the 
account was in arrears from 2015, and the account history and Ms Ms own recollections, 
confirm that is the case. So I cant find that BoS reported incorrect data to the credit 
reference agencies and I cant ask it to change that information.
I have noted Ms Ms explanation of what she thought would be reported on their credit files 
when they entered into the payment arrangement in the spring of 2015. However, as our 
investigator has pointed out, the documentation from the time makes it clear that any arrears 
that result from the payment arrangement will be reported to credit reference agencies. So I 
think Mr M and Ms M would have been aware that the arrears would be reported on their 
credit files, as they were.
I know that Mr M and Ms M wont be happy with this conclusion, but as BoS didnt do 
anything wrong, I cant ask it to change the information reported to the credit reference 
agencies.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M and Ms M to accept or reject my decision 
before 14 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman