DRN-4382568
The complaint
Mrs R complains about Domestic and General Insurances (D&G) poor service following a 
claim under her gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs R held a gadget insurance policy with D&G. She lost her phone and made a claim. D&G 
ultimately replaced that phone as well as refunded her a months premium. D&G got its 
contracted retailer to provide Mrs R with the replacement phone. D&G said that the phone 
that Mrs R was given was a brand-new phone and the retailer it used confirmed this as well. 
Mrs R said that she experienced some issues with the phone and believed that the phone 
supplied, was a refurbished phone. She contacted the retailer who supplied the phone, and 
the retailer gave her instructions on how to re-boot the phone. And if the re-booting wasnt 
successful advised Mrs R to visit the phone manufacturers shop to get them to have a look 
at the phone. 
Mrs R was unhappy and raised a complaint with D&G as she said that as she was unable to 
use the phone, she had experienced stress and inconvenience, which was increased due to 
her personal family vulnerabilities. In its final response, D&G said that Mrs R was sent a 
replacement phone, that she had issues with the connectivity to her network. It sent her 
instructions on how to connect the phone with her network. And believed that as she hadnt 
contacted them again, the issue must have been resolved. So, it apologised that she had to 
re-boot the phone and was unable to uphold her complaint. 
Mrs R was given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said that D&G 
had a duty to supply a working phone, which wasnt done. And as the replacement phone 
wasnt useable, D&G should pay compensation of £50 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mrs R accepted the view, D&G did not. It said that it felt that the view was unfair. It had 
supplied Mrs R with a brand-new phone and the only issue with the phone was that it wasnt 
connecting to Mrs Rs network. It said that it gave Mrs R information to allow the phone to 
connect with the network and as it hadnt heard anything from Mrs R thought that the issue 
had been resolved. Even if the issue hadnt been resolved, it would have referred Mrs R to 
the phone manufacturer to assist. So, it asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 6 September 2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else 
by 4 October 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be 
a disappointment to Mrs R, but I hope my provisional findings explain why I think this is fair. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions and they state that in cases of loss D&G 
ought to replace the phone, which can be a refurbished phone. Due to Mrs Rs personal 
vulnerabilities D&G agreed to replace the phone with a brand- new phone and directed its 
supplier to send Mrs R a new phone. 
There is no issue that Mrs R was sent a phone. Mrs R said that the phone she was sent was 
a refurbished phone. She believed that it was the case as when she attempted to access the 
storage data file, an error triangle came up on the phone and a family member advised her 
that this meant that the phone had previously belonged to someone else. 
Apart from Mrs Rs testimony that the phone was refurbished, I havent seen any expert 
evidence from Mrs R to confirm this. In any event, as the policy terms and conditions state 
that the obligation on D&G was to supply a phone (which couldve been a refurbished 
phone), Im satisfied that this was done. 
But I do think its right that the phone supplied should be working and at the very least 
making and receiving calls. So, Ive looked into this further. 
D&G said that it supplied a brand-new phone and in the absence of any contrary expert 
evidence from Mrs R or evidence such as the photos she was asked to supply that showed 
the broken seal and box of the phone, Im satisfied that the phone supplied was new. 
Ive listened to the call record when Mrs R referred her complaint to our service. During the 
call she said that after she had collected a sim from a phone shop, she got a family member 
to put the sim in the phone. She said the phone was working but the app that allowed 
storage of data wasnt working, and this is when she saw an error triangle appear on the 
phone. She said that what followed were several calls to D&G as she couldnt get the phone 
to work. 
I asked Mrs R for further clarification on this, and she did not respond. I also asked her 
whether she followed the instructions that D&G had sent her to re-boot the phone, again she 
did not respond. I asked her if she took the phone to the phone manufacturer for further 
assistance, as she was advised to by D&G, again she did not respond. 
Further, I asked her how she managed to contact D&G, in view of her comments that she 
had been in touch with D&G every day to explain how much stress she had been under 
without the use of a phone. I noted that the phone Mrs R was calling from, was the same 
number for the phone that wasnt working. Mrs R did not respond to this query either. 
From the evidence, I cant see that D&G did anything wrong here. It advised her to re-boot 
the phone, which she didnt do. It advised her to take the phone to the phone manufacturer, 
again she didnt do this. Further, Mrs R didnt go back to D&G to inform them that there was 
still an issue with the phone, for them to make further investigations. When our service looks at recommending compensation, we look at the impact of the 
business error on the consumer. In this complaint Mrs R said that she was unable to use the 
phone and due to her family circumstances, she relied on this phone, and this caused her 
stress and inconvenience. 
Whilst I accept that not having a workable phone can be stressful, Im not satisfied that this 
was the case here. Mrs R said that she had to call D&G several times and every single day 
since she had the phone. So, I think she had access to a phone. Further, she has provided 
me with no explanation as to why she didnt carry out the re-boot of her phone or why she 
didnt take her phone to the phone manufacturer for further assistance.
Consequently, I dont think its fair or reasonable for D&G to be held responsible for the 
phone not connecting to the network. Accordingly, I cant reasonably ask it to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint at this stage. I will of course review any further evidence that 
Mrs R may wish me to have sight of.  
Responses to my provisional decision
D&G agreed with my provisional decision.  Mrs R did not respond. 
As there has been no objection to my provisional decision, my final decision is the same as 
that of my provisional decisions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman