DRN-2706448
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the standard of repairs carried out by their insurers UK 
Insurance Limited (UKI), under a home emergency policy. 
 
What happened
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs M contacted UKI to report an issue with their boiler. An engineer 
attended and carried out a repair. Mr and Mrs M had cause to contact UKI for two further 
occasions as their boiler was losing pressure and a leak in the elbow joint in the pipework 
leading to the radiator. The engineers replaced parts in the boiler and fixed the boiler issues. 
But there were still leaks. Ultimately, UKI advised that a trace and access was required to 
locate the source of the leak. 
A trace and access was conducted and pipework in the wall was found to be the cause of 
the leak. This was isolated but the leak had caused damage to Mr and Mrs Ms property. So 
they raised a complaint to UKI on the basis that the standard of repairs carried out were poor 
and had resulted in the damage caused. 
In its final response, UKI said that there was no link to the issue with the boiler which it fixed 
and the leaks that had happened. Unsatisfied with its explanation, Mr and Mrs M referred 
their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. She said that UKI had:
Correctly repaired the boiler issues. 
Identified that the leak wasnt as a result of anything the original engineers did. 
Because Mr and Mrs M didnt provide any independent evidence to show that the 
leak was connected to the actions of the engineers, there was nothing further she 
could reasonably ask UKI to do.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept our investigators view on the basis that the first repair was 
poorly carried out and the engineer shouldnt have re-pressurised the boiler until parts had 
been replaced. So, they asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 2 December 2020. In my provisional decision I didnt think that Mr 
and Mrs M had shown that the leak was connected to the actions of the engineers. I asked 
both parties to provide me anything else they wished me to consider by 1 January 2021.  
Having assessed everything, Im minded to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs M obtained a report from an expert who is an experienced heating contractor 
and a member of a leading trade organisation for building engineering services. Their 
engineer concluded that the initial engineer should have checked the system expansion 
vessel pressure to ensure that the system expansion was being adequately dealt with. 
Thats because the expansion vessel was later replaced along with the safety valve, both 
items were faulty. And having failed, this put pressure on the system which caused a system 
joint to fail and resulted in the leak and damage that occurred. So, it felt that it was unlikely 
that the pump was faulty and so the initial diagnosis was incorrect. 
UKI were sent the report and it determined that there was no way of knowing if the pump 
had been operating correctly when the first repair was carried out. That when the expansion 
vessel was later found to have failed, it was most likely that the pressure relief valve (PRV) 
had activated. And once the PRV has been activated, it doesnt reseal and so would need to 
be replaced as well. UKI also said that it couldnt comment on whether there was an 
accumulation in pressure which caused the fitting to leak. 
I have further reviewed the evidence given the responses received. 
When Mr and Mrs M made the initial report regarding the issues with the boiler, they didnt 
report that there was a leak, it was because the radiators were not working, and noises were 
coming from the boiler. I think from UKIs responses, that it hasnt disagreed with Mr and Mrs 
Ms expert that the initial diagnosis was incorrect. That is, that the fault wasnt with the pump 
but was with the expansion vessel. I say this as the engineer who attended did note that the 
pressure was low and recorded in the job report that he re-pressurised the system. I am 
persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms comments that had there been a leak, at the time of the first 
visit, the engineer would not have been able to re-pressurise the heating system. 
In addition, I am persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms engineers report that concluded that the 
initial diagnosis was incorrect. And because of the mis-diagnosis, this ultimately caused the 
build -up of pressure in the system which caused the joint to fail and the leak to occur. It is 
also noteworthy, that once the expansion vessel and safety valve were replaced, Mr and Mrs 
M said that the heating system worked well again. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I think that UKIs initial diagnosis was incorrect and I 
think that this led to the leak and the damage that resulted. So I intend to ask UKI to put 
matters right. 
Mr and Mrs M have said that it cost them around £600 for the repairs to be carried out. So I 
think UKI ought to reimburse this on presentation of the invoices from Mr and Mrs M.  
I also think that Mr and Mrs M suffered from a level of distress and inconvenience, especially 
as they mentioned the numerous calls they had to make to UKI to try and resolve the 
complaint. For this, I think it is reasonable that UKI pay compensation for the trouble and 
upset it caused of £100. 
  
Putting things right
 Mr and Mrs M had nothing further to say to my second provisional decision. UKI reviewed Mr and Mrs Ms expert report. It said that there was no evidence to show that 
the pressure relief valve failed. Its engineer wasnt required to examine the expansion vessel 
as he topped up the system pressure. That there was no evidence to suggest that the pump 
was faulty. Finally, if fitted correctly, the joints in the pipework should withstand pressure 
exerted in the system, even with an increase in pressure. 
I think that the main issue of this complaint was the misdiagnosis of the original fault. Mr and 
Mrs Ms expert has outlined the steps that should have been followed by UKIs engineer to 
ensure that the system was working correctly. Their expert details that the fault that UKI 
were initially called to repair related to: radiators not working and system noises.  
But UKIs engineer diagnosed a faulty pump and re-pressurised the system, which then led 
to a build up of pressure and caused the leak. Mr and Mrs Ms expert states that because 
the engineer failed to check if there was excess pressure within the system (which would 
normally be done by the pressure relief valve  which was faulty) then this was the cause of 
the leak. 
Given that UKI accepted that it changed the expansion vessel and the system safety valve a 
few days later, Im more persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms expert who said that both items were 
faulty and having excess pressure exerted in the system, caused a system joint to fail 
which subsequently caused the water leakage and damage.
Taking all of this into consideration, I think that UKIs initial diagnosis was incorrect and to 
put matters right, UKI ought to reimburse the cost of Mr and Mrs Ms repairs (which they said 
was £600) on presentation of the invoice from Mr and Mrs M. 
I also think that Mr and Mrs M suffered from a level of distress and inconvenience, especially 
as they mentioned the numerous calls, they had to make to UKI to try and resolve the 
complaint. For this, I think it is reasonable that UKI pay compensation for the trouble and 
upset it caused of £100. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
To put matters right, UK Insurance Limited should reimburse the cost of Mr and Mrs Ms 
repairs of £600, on presentation of the invoice. 
UK Insurance Limited should also pay interest on the above amounts, at a rate of 8% simple 
a year from the date of payment, to settlement. 
If HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Insurance Limited to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred above, UK Insurance Limited must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate 
showing how much tax they deduct if they ask them for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman