DRN-4216245
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank PLC wont close his and his late wifes 
accounts/investments without the documents being formally certified/translated, and about 
the poor service he received.
What happened
Mr B, who lives abroad, and his wife both had ISAs with Barclays, and a joint current 
account and a joint saver account. In May 2022 Barclays sent them notification that they 
needed to close their accounts as new regulations meant that unless all the holders of the 
accounts lived in the UK, they couldnt continue to have accounts with Barclays. It was 
proposed to do this by 24 November 2022. To close the accounts Mr B needed either to do 
this online or to download and print the documents and send them in by post. Mr B wrote 
and explained that he didnt have a computer so asked for the forms to be sent to him. He 
received no reply.
In July 2022 Mr B and his wife received similar letters about closing the accounts and Mr B 
reiterated that he needed the forms to be sent to him. He still received no response, so he 
asked a friend in the UK to download the forms and send them to him. He duly completed 
the forms and sent them to Barclays in early September. His wife, only, then received a letter 
telling her to take urgent action. After speaking to Barclays on the phone it appeared that it 
had not received his forms nor his earlier requests for the forms. Barclays agreed to send 
out more forms to him. He still heard nothing but in early January 2023 he checked his local 
account. It appeared that the funds from his ISA had been transferred to his local account.
Mr B finally received forms from Barclays by its letter dated 19 January 2023. It explained 
that as well as the forms he needed to send certified copies of two forms of ID. Mr B sent the 
relevant forms but explained that, because of his wifes illness, he couldnt get them certified. 
Sadly, Mrs B passed away on 5 February 2023. Mr B spoke to a Barclays complaints 
handler who said the matter would be passed to its bereavement team. Mr B sent the 
necessary forms, with copy ID papers and a copy of his wifes death certificate to Barclays. 
Regrettably Barclays was unable to act on those documents. The ID papers still needed to 
be certified, and it needed the death certificate to have an English translation.
In recognition of the poor service and distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B, Barclays 
offered compensation of £500. Barclays explained that it was able to release the funds in 
Mr Bs ISA, as it had a much smaller amount in it than the savings accounts. Mr B requested 
the return of the death certificate but Barclays couldnt find it. It offered Mr B a further £50 for 
the distress caused and to enable him to obtain a further copy.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Adjudicator said that Barclays had 
acted appropriately in offering the amount of compensation it had. He said he couldnt ask 
Barclays to waive its requirement for certified copy documents and an English translation.
Mr B replied that he wasnt interested in compensation, and that none of Barclays 
requirements would have been necessary had it acted on his correspondence. He expected 
Barclays to put matters right. He pointed out that if it was able to release the funds in his 
ISA, why wasnt it able to release the funds in his wifes ISA (which was for a similar 
amount).
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unquestionably, Mr B has had a poor service from Barclays here. In particular because Mr B 
lived abroad and didnt have a computer there were limited ways he could obtain the funds 
from his and his wifes accounts. The letter advising the closure mentioned it being able to 
act if it had his signature on file and could verify it. This appeared to be why it was able to 
transfer the funds from his ISA. Buti it didnt explain the need for certified copies of his ID 
documents or that for accounts with higher amounts in them it couldnt close them just on the 
signature.
Mr B also had a lot of difficulty first of all in getting the forms from Barclays and then, when 
he got a friend to download them, in getting Barclays to act on those forms. He sent several 
letters and spoke at length to Barclays complaints adviser on the phone. Ive noted also that 
he received correspondence from Barclays advising him about how to get his ISA funds 
transferred when it had already done this.
Mr B has questioned why Barclays couldnt close his wifes ISA. I can only assume that this 
was because she couldnt sign the forms at the time. Nevertheless I dont think this was 
explained to him properly (if at all).
If Barclays had acted promptly, I think Mr B would still have needed to provide certified 
copies of his ID. But I accept that he now has the added burden of getting the death 
certificate translated. 
Ive noted that Mr B doesnt want compensation. Understandably he just needs the relevant 
accounts closed and the funds transferred to him. But I dont think it would be right to ask 
Barclays to waive its requirement for certified copies and an English translation. These 
requirements are in part to protect the consumer (and, in fairness, the bank). If Barclays 
released the funds without being able to verify that the ID documents were genuine and the 
funds went astray Mr B would have good reason to complain. So I cant ask Barclays to 
process the release of the funds on the closed accounts without the necessary documents 
being certified/translated.
I know Mr B isnt interested in the compensation offered. Given that I dont think its 
appropriate to ask Barclays to change its requirements, the only other step I can take is to 
require it to pay compensation. This recognises the distress this matter had caused to Mr B 
and the inconvenience of repeatedly having to ask for forms and then Barclays losing them. 
Also he has to organise the certification of the ID papers and the translation of the death 
certificate. In that respect I think the £500 and the subsequent £50 offered is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case. My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already agreed to pay Mr S £550 compensation.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr S £550.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman