DRN-2614656
The complaint
Mr T and the estate of Mr T complain that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) took too long to deregister a Higher Purchase 
Investigation (HPI) to show the finance had been settled.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear about Mr Ts loss and Id like to extend my condolences.
I know it will disappoint him, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
This car was financed under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I can see that the finance was settled on 3 July 2019 and BPF should have removed any 
HPI marker within 31 days. But the marker wasnt removed until September 2019 so Mr T 
was kept waiting for over four weeks before he could sell his late fathers car. In that time   
Mr T says the amount the dealership were prepared to pay for it reduced by £1,217 and hed 
like BPF to compensate him for that and for some consequential losses he incurred.
BPF accept that they were late clearing the HPI marker and they have offered to refund the 
cost of three HPI checks Mr T commissioned and to pay the estate £50.
I think BPF have been reasonable here and Im not asking them to take any further action. 
Whilst its fair for them to provide compensation for the delay I dont think it would be fair to 
hold them responsible for the price a third party offered for the vehicle and Ive not seen 
sufficient evidence to demonstrate the loss in value couldnt have been mitigated by selling 
the car elsewhere. 
I sympathise with the unhappy circumstances Mr T found himself in, but I dont think it would 
be fair to ask BPF to compensate him for the losses and inconvenience he experienced 
when their responsibility was to the estate of his late father.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and the 
estate of Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman