DRN-3174392
The complaint
Mr S complains about delays associated with his Ageas Insurance Limited landlords 
property insurance claim for fire damage and about the amount of the final cash payment. 
What happened
In March 2018 Mr S submitted a claim to Ageas for extensive fire damage at his tenanted 
property. Ageas appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim shortly after which the claim 
was accepted. In June 2018, Mr S appointed his own loss assessor to handle the claim on 
his behalf. The repair contract was put out to tender and 3 quotes were received for 
£207,209, £203,263 and £140,620. Ageass preferred contractor was the one that had 
submitted the cheapest quote. 
In October 2018 the loss assessor complained to Ageas about the slow progress of the 
claim and the fact that Ageass preferred contractor had submitted the cheapest tender by 
some way. It said it had concerns the cheapest contractors scope wasnt comprehensive 
enough. The loss assessor also complained that delays in reinstatement could mean the 
loss of rent cover would be exhausted.
Ageas issued a final response letter in November 2018. Ageass loss adjuster said that it 
didnt think the appointment of the contractor thatd provided the cheapest quote would 
present any problems and it had a strong relationship with them. It apologised if Mr S felt 
hed received a poor level of service. With regard to the complaint about loss of rent cover, 
the loss adjuster said it would be extended (beyond the policy limit) if the delay was in any 
way the fault of the contractor. Finally, it said it was paying Mr S compensation of £150 for 
the deficiencies in its service. 
Ultimately, Ageas agreed to appoint the contractor with the second most expensive quote, at 
Mr Ss loss assessors behest, having been assured it would match the cheapest quote. 
Ageass loss adjuster explained again to Mr S that Ageas had a good relationship with its 
preferred contractor and was confident there would be no issues but in the end Mr Ss 
preferred choice of contractor was engaged. Reinstatement works then began in around 
December 2018 and there followed some variations to the scoped works as the full extent of 
the damage became apparent and unforeseen issues with repairs arose. The works 
continued through 2019 but there were periods of delay and disputes over the payments to 
the contractor and in the authorisation of the additional £66,000 of variations that were 
subsequently added to the original scope. The contractor also went off-site for long periods. 
The loss adjuster assessed the maximum repair contract duration to be 32 weeks but it 
actually took 66 weeks to complete. The contractor and Mr S felt the delays were caused by 
Ageas being slow to authorise both variations to the scope and interim payments, rather 
than having anything to do with them. 
A dispute then arose as, some months after completion of the works, Mr S and the 
contractor felt Ageas was refusing to finalise the claim and agree payment of the contractors 
outstanding invoice along with the outstanding loss of rent (up to 2 March 2020). Ageass 
loss adjuster said the delay in completing the repair was the fault of the contractor and, 
whilst there were delays in making some payments these had been recognised and settled 
with interest. The loss adjuster was of the view that at least 12 weeks of the delay was due 
to the contractor. With regard to Mr Ss loss of rent claim, the loss adjuster said this was 
linked to the contract overrun and should, in his view, be funded out of the liquidated 
damages clause contained in the contract for delayed completion.
The loss adjuster thought that no further payment was due. It was also noted that the 
situation had been further complicated by a duplicate £10,235 payment having been made to 
Mr S (for boarding up and loss of rent) which had only been discovered around June 2020. 
Mr Ss loss assessor raised a complaint to Ageas on his behalf about the delays in the 
authorisation of both payments to the contractor and the contract variations, the latter 
leading to the contractor walking off site. 
Ageas looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. It issued its final 
response letter at the end of June 2020. In respect of the complaint about it delaying 
payments (thereby leading to the contractor walking off site) it accepted thered been total 
delays in making payments of 146 days (21 weeks). It also said the contractor had been 
offsite, and works interrupted, for a total of 32 weeks. Ageas said there was therefore an 11-
week discrepancy. 
Ageas went on to say that it noted Mr S believed delays in authorising variations to the repair 
contract was also a cause of the issues between them but said that, in order to fully 
understand the impact this mightve had on the claim, it was necessary to examine the 
context in which the contractor was appointed (as Ive set out above). It said it had difficulty 
reconciling why Mr S felt the quality of the contractor he chose would be any better than 
Ageass preferred choice of contractor (with which it had a good working relationship). It said 
Mr Ss chosen contractor didnt match Ageass in terms of its credit conditions (with a credit 
period of just 14 days). 
Ageas said so far itd issued payments of £183,000 to the contractor but had seen evidence 
the total contract price was £220,000 (following the variations). It said this was an increase 
of 50% on what itd originally expected to have to pay. Ageas said there had also been a 
lack of substantiation from the contractor for some of the variations which had also caused 
delays. 
With regard to the loss of rent payments made to Mr S, Ageas noted that in July 2019 his 
loss assessor said that the first of these payments (for £10,235, authorised by the loss 
adjuster in July 2018), had never actually been received. Consequently, the loss adjuster 
arranged for the payment to reissued and attempted to stop the original cheque. Ageas said 
itd since discovered that the original cheque had been cashed by Mr S in July 2018 and so, 
it was clear, the payment had been issued twice. Ageas said it assumed this had been an 
oversight by Mr S but it did require the funds to be returned.
Mr S wasnt happy with Ageass response. He said that it was still withholding payments to 
the contractor for contractual damages caused by delay. Mr S said that, in fact, the opposite 
was the case and any delays in the repairs were wholly due to the incompetence of Ageas 
and its loss adjuster in approving variations and making interim payments. Mr S said he 
wanted all the outstanding money owed to the contractor to be paid by Ageas. 
In December 2020 Ageas issued a financial statement to Mr S setting out what had been 
paid and what was outstanding  it concluded that there was a net payment due to Mr S of 
£5,244.09. It set out the total contract sum (of £225,897.08) from which it deducted all the 
payments itd made to date (£211,224.03) before adding the cost of the surveyors fees 
(£12,944.04) to the balance; Ageas said this meant the total outstanding amount to be paid on the claim was £27,617.09. Ageas said it was utilising the liquidated damages clause in 
the contract (for delayed completion) for a period of 12 weeks at £900 a week which meant a 
deduction from the total outstanding amount of £10,800. It said this was a reasonable period 
to apply damages to given the circumstances. So it said, net, it owed £16,817.09 on the 
claim from which it deducted the overpayment of rent (final calculation, £11,573) meaning 
that the final sum due was £5,244.09.
Mr S complained to this service. He said Ageas would only cover around £5,000 of 
outstanding costs when the actual amount he was owed was over £27,000. He said it was 
unfair that Ageas was applying liquidated damages to the final settlement. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He 
thought that the delays were largely the result of poor scoping by Mr Ss preferred contractor 
which meant variations were needed to the repair contract which in turn led to the delays. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigators findings. He said the variations were for works that 
couldnt have been know about until work began as the damage was out of sight. He said 
provisional sum allowances had been made in the scope but these needed validating one 
the contractor was on site. He included evidence to show the variations that were needed 
and that they were concealed until work commenced. So he said it wasnt the variations that 
were the problem but the extraordinarily long time Ageas took to approve them. Mr S asked 
our investigator to reconsider his findings. 
Our investigator thought about what Mr S had said but wasnt prepared to change his mind. 
He referred to an email Ageas had sent Mr Ss loss assessor in October 2021. The email set 
out that Ageas was applying liquidated damages of £10,800 to the final settlement and 
deducting the duplicated loss of rent payment but if Mr S thought there was still an amount 
he was owed then it would need to see his calculations. Our investigator asked Mr S to 
forward the calculations which would show he was owed more than Ageas said. 
Mr S said it was evident our investigator hadnt fully understood the complaint or read the 
information provided. He said our investigators communications were unclear and 
inconsistent and showed hed failed to consider the timelines. Mr S said our investigator had 
simply restated Ageass final response letter. So he asked for the complaint to be referred 
for a decision. 
The complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my role to decide if Ageas treated Mr S fairly and reasonably and I have to say that I 
think it has; Ill explain why. 
Mr Ss complains to this service that he was unhappy about the delays associated with the 
claim and the final balance of the settlement that Ageas has offered him. The claim itself, 
and its associated issues, are complex and whilst I can see our investigator asked Mr Ss 
loss assessor for clarification about the claim and complaint, he repeated that Ageas was 
withholding payment from the contractor for damages as a result of alleged delays. She also 
said full and detailed explanations had been provided at all times. Whilst the sequence of 
events may be clear to the parties involved, navigating the issues to hand hasnt been 
entirely straightforward.Delays
There are two types of delay alleged by Mr S to have been caused by Ageas; delays in 
providing its agreement to vary the scoped repairs and delays in issuing payments to the 
contractor. 
Its not clear to me from the evidence Ive seen why the contractor originally scoped the 
repair as costing around £203,000 but then felt able to discount its quote by 30% 
(presumably in order to secure Ageass agreement that it would be contracted for the repair) 
only to ultimately invoice Ageas for a total of almost £226,000 (some 50% more than 
Ageass preferred contractors quoted). I have seen discussion of unforeseen damage which 
required the scope to be varied and Ageas approval sought, but I dont find it unreasonable 
for an insurer to want to fully assess what its being asked to pay before agreeing to do so. 
I know Mr S says that the variations were so critical to the works that without agreement 
from Ageas the contractor was justified in walking offsite but Ive not seen sufficient evidence 
to be able to agree with him. Mr S has provided a full list of additions to the scope that he 
says were unknown prior to works commencing. But it seems that some of these at least  
additional skips, washing sanitaryware, works to the conservatory and the re-grouting of tiles 
 cant reasonably be classified as critical. Nor for that matter can I agree that these items 
could be classed as unforeseen damage in that they werent visible/discoverable until works 
commenced. 
And whilst Ive seen some dates for when the variations were approved, Ive not seen any 
dates for when approval was sought (such that delays could then be ascertained). I agree 
that the provision of scaffolding is critical but it appears its removal and reinstatement 
coincided with an admitted delay in issuing payment during which the contractor was off-site 
anyway.
And I cant ignore evidence that indicates that at times, approval for variations was being 
sought from Ageas, but many variations were already in progress, or had been agreed on 
site, or were the result of structural issues being identified that required investigation. On 
balance, I cant reasonably conclude that the reason the contractor was off-site for such 
lengthy periods was because Ageas delayed in approving variations to the original scope. 
With regard to the delays associated in paying the contractor, I note two things. The first is 
that the contractor had an atypical credit period in the contract in that it appears to have 
been much shorter than what Ageas typically experienced when paying suppliers. 
Consequently, its not unreasonable to assume that if the credit period was much shorter 
than Ageas was used to, it would be easier for its payments to be late or delayed. That said, 
it agreed to the terms of the contract and shouldve been aware of the credit terms. The 
second point to note is that Ageas admits that there were some delays in making payments 
that were its fault  for which it has paid interest to the contractor. 
From the evidence Ageas has provided, the nature and specifics of which has been 
unchallenged by Mr S, it is clear that the Ageas has identified there is a net delay, the fault 
for which lies with the contractor. In its final settlement statement, following the conclusion of 
the claim. Ageas attributed a 12-week delay to the contractor. 
Other than stating such a delay to be unfair, Mr S has provided no other comment about this 
issue. Rather he argues that Ageas has unfairly invoked the contracts liquidated damages 
clause because any delay isnt the fault of his contractor but rather the result of it failing to 
approve variations. But, for the reasons Ive given above, I cant agree. And without any 
specific comment about why else the liquidated damages clause shouldnt be invoked, Im 
unable to fairly conclude that Ageas should be responsible for the full delay associated with this claim and has, therefore, been unreasonable in invoking the liquidated damages clause 
in the contract.
Outstanding settlement
The outstanding balance to be paid to the contractor by Ageas is £27,617.09. This figure has 
been reached by Ageas deducting the total its paid to date from the full contractual amount 
charged by the contractor and adding in the cost of the surveyors fees. Mr S thinks Ageas 
should pay him this amount in entirety. Ageas says there is a lesser amount due  of 
£5,244.09  because there are two deductions to be made from the claim costs. Those 
deductions are for 12 weeks of liquidated damages (at £900 per week coming to £10,800) 
and the final amount calculated for the loss of rent overpayment  namely, £11,573.
I can see that Ageas issued a loss of rent payment to Mr S in duplicate. I cant see that Mr S 
has ever provided any comment on this issue or disputed that he was paid twice. 
Consequently I cant agree with him that Ageas has unfairly deducted the duplicated loss of 
rent payment from the final settlement amount. I can see it previously asked Mr S to repay 
the sum but Ive not seen that hes ever acknowledged or replied to Ageass request. 
For the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied that Ageas reasonably attributed some of the 
delay to the Mr Ss chosen contractor. Its not in dispute that the contract contains a 
liquidated damages clause, only that its been applied. Ive explained already why I think that 
Ageas hasnt been unfair in electing to do so. Ageas has invited Mr S to provide his own 
calculations for it to consider if he remains of the view that he is owed more by way of final 
settlement for the claim. That seems a fair offer to me but as Ive seen no evidence that Mr S 
has provided any such calculations, I think Ageass final offer to settle the claim of £5,244.09 
is fair and reasonable and I dont propose to make it do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman