DRN-4293724
The complaint
Ms G complains about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege (UKI) handled her 
claim on her home insurance policy following a fire at her property. 
What happened
Ms G had home insurance that was underwritten by UKI. In March 2022 there was a fire at 
her property and she made a claim. UKI sent a loss adjuster to look at the damage. It also 
carried out interviews with the fire brigade that attended the fire and other witnesses. 
In October 2022 it wrote to Ms G to say it was declining her claim. It said it thought the fire 
had been started deliberately and was therefore excluded from cover. 
Ms G didnt think this was fair. She said she wasnt sure how the fire started but it hadnt 
been deliberate. She also said UKIs loss adjuster had disposed of a large amount of her 
furniture, carpets and belongings when it visited the property and now the claim had been 
declined, this left her unable to replace the items. Further she said UKI had requested her 
full medical records and threatened to take away her alternative accommodation if she didnt 
provide them, which had been distressing and inappropriate. She made complaints about 
her concerns.
UKI upheld her complaint about the medical records. It accepted its loss adjuster had 
incorrectly requested all her records when it just required the discharge form from her 
hospital visit after the fire. However it maintained its position on the decline of the claim as it 
said the evidence it had seen suggested the fire was started deliberately. And it said the 
items were disposed of due to fire or smoke damage so they were beyond economical 
repair. And it said it got Ms Gs agreement before doing so. 
Unhappy with this response, Ms G brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt think UKI had acted unfairly in declining Ms 
Gs claim. And she thought it had acted reasonably by disposing of the contents of Ms Gs 
property due to fire damage, smoke contamination and water damage. However she agreed 
it hadnt acted fairly by requesting all of Ms Gs medical records. And she thought it should 
pay £150 compensation to apologise for the distress and inconvenience this caused.
UKI agreed to pay the compensation. However Ms G didnt accept the outcome. She 
maintained that a number of the items that were disposed of were in a good condition and 
should have been returned to her. And she didnt think the decline of the claim was fair. She 
asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim decline
As part of this decision, it isnt for me to decide what the cause of the fire was. As that falls 
outside the remit of this service. Instead I need to consider whether UKI came to a fair and 
reasonable decision on Ms Gs claim, based on the available evidence. 
UKI has relied on the following exclusion to decline Ms Gs claim:
Any loss, damage or legal liability caused, or allowed to be caused by deliberate, wilful, or 
malicious act of you or any paying guest or tenant
I need to consider whether its done enough to prove this exclusion would fairly apply. 
Ive looked at the evidence provided. I can see that when UKIs loss adjuster first visited the 
property they noted concerns about the fire being caused deliberately. UKI went on to 
instruct fire specialists to inspect the damage and they concluded that the only explanations 
for the fire were either that it started from a candle or that it was deliberate. And that it was 
most likely deliberate, due to the two seats of the fire in separate locations. 
UKI also interviewed the fire officer that attended the scene and helped put out the fire. And 
it was his belief from his observations and experience that the fire had been started 
deliberately. 
Of these, I find the report from the fire officer most persuasive. As he was at the property 
when the fire happened, so would likely be able to provide an accurate account of the 
events. And he was able to inspect the seat of the fire right after it was put out. He also has 
many years of experience attending fires and identifying how and where they started. 
Based on this, I think UKI has done enough to prove the exclusion would fairly apply. It 
instructed two experts to inspect the damage and got the opinion of the officer who attended 
the scene. And the opinions of those who inspected the damage were that the fire was most 
likely started deliberately. I therefore think UKI acted fairly and reasonably by declining the 
claim on this basis. 
I want to add that I can see this has been a very stressful time for Ms G. The fire would have 
been a distressing experience and she has explained the issues UKI declining her claim has 
caused her since. And by deciding UKI acted fairly I dont wish to diminish the impact the 
matter has had on her. However I have to base my decision on the expert evidence 
available, and having done so I dont find that UKI has acted unfairly. 
Items of contents
Ms G has also expressed concern about UKI disposing of a number of items of contents, 
furniture and carpets from her property that she said were in good condition. 
Ive looked at the report produced by UKIs loss adjuster and I can see that the items that 
were disposed of were all inspected by them and deemed to be beyond economical repair. 
In some areas this was due to the physical damage that was caused by the fire  particularly 
in the kitchen. But for some items this was due to contamination caused by the smoke. This 
type of damage is less easy to identify as it doesnt always cause obvious physical damage. 
But it would leave the items unsafe to retain. As UKIs loss adjuster inspected the items and 
deemed them unfit to retain, I think UKI acted fairly by disposing of the items. 
I can see that since the claim has been declined this has left Ms G in a really difficult 
position. As she now has to fund a large amount to replace all the items. I dont doubt that 
this is a very distressing position to be in. However as UKIs expert deemed the items 
unrepairable, and Ive seen no evidence to suggest this wasnt correct, I dont find that UKI acted unfairly here. 
Request for medical records
As part of its investigation into the cause of the fire, UKI needed to obtain the details of Ms 
Gs visit to the hospital. However its loss adjuster requested she provide her full medical 
records. And it asked her to sign a mandate for it to have access to these. It said without 
this, the alternative accommodation she was staying in would be taken away. 
UKI has accepted this request was incorrect and unnecessary. However I can see that this 
caused Ms G some distress at the time and UKI hasnt taken any action to put this right. She 
was already in a distressing situation, as she was living out of her home. And the request 
caused her unnecessary worry that she could end up having nowhere to live while her home 
was uninhabitable. 
Due to this, I agree with our investigator that UKI should pay Ms G £150 compensation to 
apologise for the error its loss adjuster made in its request and the distress this caused her. 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I direct U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege to pay Ms G 
£150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman