DRN-3709480
The complaint
Mr S complains that Joslin Rhodes Lifestyle Financial Planning Limited trading as Joslin 
Rhodes (JR) declined to transfer the benefits hed built up in a defined benefit pension 
scheme. He feels JR led him to believe he would definitely be able to carry out the transfer. 
Mr S considers hes lost out financially as he paid JR for a financial planning report, and is 
also being asked to pay for the Pension Transfer Specialist (PTS) report JR produced, 
despite the transfer being declined. Hed like JR to refund him the fee hes already paid, and 
to write off the outstanding £1,995 PTS report fee. Hed also like compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hes suffered.
What happened
Mr S said he contacted JR so that he could arrange the transfer of a deferred defined benefit 
pension with a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) of around £215,000 to a defined 
contribution scheme. 
I understand the following to be a record of relevant events:
1 July 2020  Mr S had an initial meeting with JR. He said it told him what the transfer 
process would involve. And that it began to gather information to assess his financial 
situation to see if a transfer was suitable. 
Mr S said that during this meeting, he was told that 99% of the PTS reports come back with 
a negative recommendation to transfer. But that an insistent client letter could waive this. He 
said that he wasnt told that the transfer might not go ahead.
14 July 2020  Mr S said that JR asked him further financial questions. He said that he had 
an online meeting with JR on 27 August 2020. And further in person meetings on 1 and 7 
September 2020. But that JR never told him that the transfer might not go ahead.
8 September 2020  Mr S said that he completed an insistent client letter after the PTS 
report had come back with a recommendation that he shouldnt transfer. 
9 September 2020 - Mr S said he had another meeting with JR. At this point, he said he was 
told that JR wouldnt take him on as a pension customer due to his self-investor behaviour. 
But he would still be required to pay for the financial planning report and the PTS. Mr S said 
he received invoices for the fees on 22 September 2020. 
JR said it declined the transfer due the length of time Mr S had until retirement and the level 
of commercial risk the transaction represented for it.
Mr S said he emailed JR on 19 October 2020 to ask it if he could transfer elsewhere. But 
said that it told him he couldnt. He said he paid the £995 fee for the financial planning report 
on 28 October 2020. He said he received a call from JR in which it confirmed that his self-
investor behaviour was well-documented from the first meeting. So he raised a complaint. 
Mr S said JR emailed him on 19 November 2020 to invite him to a meeting. He said he 
declined, but agreed to talk by telephone. He said he spoke to JR on 7 December 2020. And 
that during that call his complaints werent resolved. He said that JR agreed to call him back. 
But that he didnt hear from it until 4 June 2021, when he received a letter asking him to pay 
the outstanding PTS fee.
Mr S said he called JR on 7 June 2021 about the outstanding PTS fee. He said JR agreed to 
properly handle his complaint. Mr S emailed JR about his complaint on 8 June 2021. He 
raised the following complaint points:
1. JR was aware of Mr Ss self-investor behaviour from the start.
2. He was never told that he might not be able to transfer. He felt that he could become 
an insistent client and that his transfer would always be accepted. Mr S also felt that 
the terms and conditions didnt cover what would happen if JR declined a transfer.
3. JRs terms and conditions werent made clear to him. And nor were payment options 
ever discussed with him. 
4. He couldve transferred elsewhere using JRs negative recommendation. 
5. Mr S also complained about the administration of his case since December 2020.
JR said Mr S had signed an agreement with it which confirmed that it would review his 
defined benefit scheme and make a recommendation to him about it. It said its agreement 
clearly stated that the outcome might not be a recommendation to transfer.
It said that when it had completed its work, it considered a transfer wasnt in Mr Ss best 
interests. So it recommended that he remained a member of the defined benefit scheme. JR 
said that Mr S then tried to proceed as an insistent client with it. But it had declined to 
facilitate this for him.
JR also said that the £995 he had paid was for a non-regulated Lifestyle Financial Planning 
service, which is a cashflow modelling product that is separate from this complaint. And 
which Mr S hadnt complained about.
The Pension Transfer Report JR produced for Mr S stated that it would cost him 
£334,998.38 to obtain a comparable level of income from an insurer, which meant the same 
retirement income he would get from his defined benefit pension could cost him £117,145.90 
more by transferring.
JR issued its final response to the complaint on 2 August 2021. It didnt think it had acted 
incorrectly in respect of its decision to decline the transfer. It also said it hadnt been aware 
of Mr Ss intentions to self-invest from the start. It said that Mr S had only told it that he 
wished to be considered as a self-investor when he was challenged as part of the insistent 
client process. It said it had completed the PTS in good faith. And felt that Mr S had been 
aware at the time hed agree for it to do the work that it didnt guarantee to facilitate a 
transfer. 
JR also felt that its terms and conditions had been made clear to Mr S. And said that as it 
had an obligation to ensure that its advice was in the clients best interests, it couldnt 
approve Mr Ss request to transfer elsewhere as it didnt consider it was in his best interests. 
But it acknowledged that it couldve provided a better service. And offered £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience itd caused. The compensation would be 
deducted from Mr Ss outstanding debt, reducing it to £1562.50 plus VAT, so was effectively 
worth £120. Unhappy, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. He said there was nothing in the terms 
and conditions of the PTS report that said he had to pay if JR decided not to recommend the 
transfer. He also said that he wouldnt have paid for the financial planning report or the PTS 
report if hed known there was a possibility he wouldnt be able to make the transfer. Mr S 
was unhappy JR was chasing him for payment for the PTS report. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Mr S had received 
an expert opinion on what was the most suitable way to invest his pension, even though it 
wasnt the advice hed hoped for. And although he couldnt say for certain what JR had told 
Mr S, he felt that it was likely that JR had explained the insistent client process to him, and 
that it wasnt a guarantee that it would undertake the transfer. He said there was no 
obligation on JR to accept Mr Ss business on an insistent client basis. 
Our investigator also considered that the £100 compensation JR had offered for the distress 
and inconvenience it had caused was fair and reasonable under the circumstances. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points:
- At no point had JR told him that he could still be refused after the Insistent Client 
letter. He said that JR had told him he could waive the negative recommendation.
- He felt the terms and conditions of the PTS report didnt cover the scenario he found 
himself in. So he didnt feel he should have to pay for the PTS report if JR wouldnt 
approve the transfer.
- He also questioned if there was enough evidence to show that JR had told him that it 
was possible his transfer would be declined. 
Our investigator asked Mr S if he had any evidence about what was said at the initial 
meeting. He said the only information he had was Mr Ss and JRs version of events, which 
conflicted. He said that Mr Ss status as a self-investor wasn't documented in JR's records of 
the initial meeting. And he didnt consider that the notes from the second meeting, and his 
previous investment experience, were sufficient to say he was a self-investor.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will be very disappointing to 
Mr S. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive considered each of Mr Ss complaint points, starting with whether JR shouldve been 
aware of Mr Ss self-investor behaviour from the start. And if it ever told him that he could 
still be refused even if he became an insistent client.
Should JR have been aware of Mr Ss self-investor behaviour from the start? And did it ever 
tell him it could refuse his transfer even if he became an insistent client?
Mr S made the following points about why JR shouldve known from the start that he was a 
personal or self-investor:
- All his personal investment documentation was brought to the first meeting. - The notes from the first meeting showed that he enjoyed: having control over my 
pension. Hed also discussed in detail with JR the fund switches hed made in his 
defined contribution pension, but this hadnt been documented. 
- The notes from the second meeting showed that he took an active role in his 
pension. 
- JR told him on 9 September 2020 that it felt he was a self-investor and this was why 
it had declined to approve his transfer as an insistent client. 
- JR had told him on 28 October 2020 that his self-investor behaviour was well-
documented in the first meeting.
Mr S also felt that his Insistent Client questionnaire didnt show that he would move his funds 
away from JR in the future, as he felt JR had told him. He said he would be looking into the 
fees associated with the pension management. But that he hadnt said that he wanted to 
move away from JR.
JR said that it had reviewed all the documentary evidence, including the adviser notes 
completed during each meeting to consider if it shouldve aware before the PTS report had 
been presented that Mr S might want to actively manage his funds himself. But it felt that Mr 
S hadnt shown it that he should be considered to be a self-investor until the insistent client 
process. 
JR said that Mr Ss answers to its insistent client questionnaire led it to believe that he was 
more of a self-investor and that he would wish to move funds away from JR in the future. It 
said its advisers notes from the 10 September 2020 discussion had recorded that where he 
had understood that Mr S was comfortable with JR management, his insistent client answers 
had suggested otherwise. 
As Mr S and JRs recollection of events differ, Ive focussed on the documentary evidence in 
this case. The notes from the 10 September 2020 discussion include the following points:
Mr S was: very keen to accept the CETV as you wish to have as much flexibility in 
retirement as possible.
But JR said that based on the answers Mr S had given in the insistent client booklet, JR 
couldnt facilitate the transfer. The notes stated:
I have explained this is also due to your age and that you are at least 10 years from 
retirement and much can change in this time. I have explained that your answers in your IC 
[Insistent Client] booklet lead the PTS and CEO to believe that you are more of a self-
investor and that you would wish to move funds away from JR in the future. 
Im persuaded that this shows that JR hadnt previously considered that Mr S was a self-
investor. And that he would leave the transferred funds under its management. But that 
when it reviewed Mr Ss answers in the Insistent Client booklet, it concluded that he was 
likely to move his funds away from it in future. 
Ive also carefully considered the previous meeting notes. And I havent seen anything in 
those which leads me to believe that JR shouldve realised Mr S was a self-investor before it 
saw his response in the Insistent Client booklet. 
I acknowledge that Mr S considers that the information he provided to JR from the first 
meeting shouldve been enough for it to realise that he was a self-investor, and to tell him that this meant it was likely that it would decline his transfer. But Im not persuaded that this 
is correct. I say this because during the first meeting on 1 July 2020, JR gathered financial 
information from Mr S. It also got a general overview of his current intentions. And talked 
through his general pension options and the advantages and disadvantages of each.
Im not persuaded that the list of assets recorded during this meeting shouldve led JR to 
assess Mr S as a self-investor. It simply didnt have enough information at this point. 
Mr S completed an Investment Comfort Zone (ICZ) questionnaire. The outcome of this was 
recorded in JRs note dated 16 July 2020. This recorded that Mr S enjoyed deciding which 
funds invest in. It also recorded that Mr S had recently decided to encash his investments 
due to a market downturn. And that he was waiting to invest in funds again. 
While I acknowledge that this couldve indicated that Mr S was a self-investor, JRs notes 
also showed that it discussed with him that his answer to question 7 of the ICZ questionnaire 
indicated that he valued and therefore wouldnt want to give up the guaranteed income from 
his defined benefit pension. 
I consider that Mr Ss other responses to the ICZ questionnaire also indicated that he would 
value JRs help with investments. He only said that he had dabbled with self-investing. And 
that he wouldnt swap a guaranteed amount of money equivalent to his household income 
for any bigger amount of money if it wasnt guaranteed. Mr S also said that if market 
instability was in the news he would: probably contact his adviser for some reassurance. 
And that if his investments went down significantly due to a market fall, he would sit tight 
and do nothing. 
While I acknowledge that Mr S felt that the notes from the second meeting showed that he 
took an active role in his pension, Im satisfied that his responses to the ICZ questionnaire 
dont indicate that he shouldve been categorised as a self-investor at this point. And I can 
see why JR had understood that Mr S was comfortable with it acting as his investment 
manager before the insistent client questionnaire had been completed. But that after that, it 
felt differently. The notes from the 10 September 2020 meeting confirm this:
We recapped on our meeting on Monday and the conversation we had had around your 
investment strategies. In this conversation I had understood that you were comfortable with 
JR management, but your [Insistent Client] questions would suggest otherwise. [You] told 
me that you completely understood this decision and told me, you never know, this might 
turn out better in the long run. 
Overall, I dont agree that JR shouldve known from the start that he was a personal or 
self-investor. So I went on to consider whether JR ever told Mr S that he could still be 
refused even if he became an insistent client.
Mr S said that he was never told at any of the meetings that JR could refuse him if he 
became an insistent client. He said hed been told that the PTS was likely to come back with 
a negative recommendation. But that once the insistent client report had been completed his 
transfer could go ahead. Mr S said that JR had told him at the initial meeting that: 99% of 
PTS reports come back negative and an insistent client letter can be used to allow the 
transfer to go through when a professional adviser has determined the transfer wasnt 
suitable for you. He said that if hed been told that there was a good chance that the 
insistent client report could be rejected because of his personal investment behaviour he 
wouldnt have gone any further. And then he wouldnt have incurred any fees. Mr S also felt 
that the terms and conditions didnt cover what would happen if JR declined a transfer. 
JR said that the terms of the agreement which Mr S had signed made it clear that: We do not guarantee to provide a recommendation in favour of arranging a pension transfer. It said 
that its 27 August 2020 meeting notes recorded that its adviser had confirmed: We have 
discussed that the Specialist Report will provide a formal recommendation and that this 
could be recommend to remain or a recommend to transfer and you are comfortable that this 
could go either way.
So it said it was satisfied that Mr S was aware that it didnt guarantee to recommend a 
transfer and that he had been aware of this before hed signed its terms of agreement.
JR also said that it had stated the following in the insistent client document:
We are not obligated to undertake any particular transaction for you and if you request us to 
implement a course of action that is different to our recommendation then we will consider 
each case on its circumstances.
So JR felt that before Mr S had completed the insistent client letter hed been aware that it 
might not agree to facilitate a transfer.
JR also said that it had explained during the 10 September 2020 meeting that it had been 
unable to agree to facilitate Mr S on an insistent client basis because he had at least 10 
years until his retirement and due to the commercial risk of facilitating a transfer on an 
insistent client basis given it felt that Mr S would move his funds away from JR in the future. 
It said that it was required to make a suitable recommendation for its clients. And that as Mr 
S had indicated in the insistent client booklet that he was minded to be a self-investor, it 
couldnt evidence that facilitating the transfer was in his best interests. 
JR said that its terms and conditions, which Mr S had signed, showed that it didnt guarantee 
to provide a recommendation in favour of arranging a pension transfer. It also felt that this 
agreement had made it clear that if it didnt facilitate a transfer, its report fees would still 
remain payable. It said this was because it stated:
Fees will become payable when the report is provided to you or if you cancel the agreement 
if earlier. Where you subsequently instruct us to arrange a transfer then you may choose to 
have fees deducted from your pension at the point of transfer.
I first looked at the terms and conditions Mr S signed on 28 August 2020. Under Permission 
to Arrange Transfers Following Our Recommendation it stated:
The Transfer Value Analysis report prepared will include a recommendation on whether 
transferring the existing pension scheme(s) to the proposed scheme is suitable based on 
your desired outcomes and current circumstances.

We do not guarantee to provide a recommendation in favour of arranging a pension 
transfer

The fee to provide a Specialist Report is payable regardless of whether you decide to remain 
within the scheme or transfer out of the scheme. In the event that an instruction is given to 
Joslin Rhodes to arrange and be responsible for the transfer then additional fees would be 
payable as defined in the Joslin Rhodes Terms of Agreement (4% of transfer value subject 
to a minimum of £5,000).I consider that these terms are clear. The fees had to be paid once the report had been 
provided, regardless of the outcome. And that as the terms were signed by Mr S, Im 
satisfied that they were provided to him. I acknowledge that the terms dont explicitly state 
what would happen if JR decided not to proceed with the transfer. A set of terms and 
conditions cant always cover every eventuality. And where they don't, I have to consider 
what is fair and reasonable. 
The terms do however state that it was possible that the transfer wouldnt be approved. 
Regardless, Mr S had to take financial advice under the defined benefit pension regulations. 
JR took Mr S through the advice process and found that it wasnt in his best interests to 
transfer. It wasnt required to accept him as an insistent client. And it didnt accept him as it 
felt this wasnt in either his, or its, best interests. Im satisfied that Mr S shouldve expected to 
pay JR for the work itd had to do to reach its outcome, regardless of what that was. 
Im also satisfied that the terms do state that the PTS fee would be payable whether or not 
the transfer went ahead if this was Mr Ss decision. I think it is a reasonable assumption to 
consider that such fees would also be due if the transfer didnt go ahead if this was JRs 
recommendation. 
Ive also reviewed the insistent client booklet. I can confirm that this did state that JR was 
under no obligation to carry out any transfer on an insistent client basis. 
Overall, Ive seen no evidence, other than Mr Ss testimony, that JR told him he would 
definitely be able to transfer his defined benefit pension, even if he had to go through the 
insistent client route. And while I acknowledge that JR has also not provided any definitive 
evidence that it had explained to Mr S that it was possible that it wouldnt recommend his 
transfer under any circumstances, Im still not satisfied that theres enough evidence to show 
that JR told Mr S that he could definitely complete the transfer. 
I say this because JR couldnt fairly give Mr S its recommendations until itd investigated his 
financial circumstances. And until itd done so, it wouldn't have known whether it could 
recommend the transfer. I also note that it was in JRs financial interests to recommend the 
transfer, as if it had gone ahead, it wouldve charged a further fee in line with the terms Mr S 
had agreed to. 
I also note that in his response to our investigators view, Mr S told this service that JR had 
never said his transfer was guaranteed to happen. But that it had answered yes when hed 
asked it if an insistent client report could waive the negative recommendation. I agree that 
such a report could waive a negative recommendation in certain circumstances. But not in 
all circumstances. Therefore Im satisfied that JR never told Mr S that his transfer could 
definitely go ahead.
I next considered whether JRs terms and conditions were made clear to Mr S. And if it had 
discussed payment terms with him. 
Terms and conditions and payment terms
Mr S said that the terms and conditions said JR wouldnt charge him until it had discussed 
payment options with him. He said the payment options hadnt been discussed with him 
before hed been charged. 
JR said that payment options had been discussed with Mr S. It said that as he didnt have 
any assets under its management, it couldnt deduct its fees from any other assets it held on 
his behalf. And that as it hadnt recommended the transfer, it couldnt take its fees from the 
defined benefit transfer. It said that as it couldnt take fees in any other way, it issued an invoice to Mr S to request direct payment direct. And that this had confirmed Mr Ss payment 
options.
From what Ive seen, the meeting notes from the 1 July 2020 meeting show that fees were 
discussed. The notes recorded that the two fees Mr S would be charged if he proceeded 
with the Lifestyle Financial Planning, and then wanted to explore his transfer options. The 
notes also stated that there would be an initial advice fee and ongoing advice fees if he went 
ahead with a transfer and brought his transferred assets under JRs management.
The terms and conditions Mr S signed on 28 August 2020 also detailed what the charges 
would be for the PTS report. Under Specialist Report (TVAS) Services it states:
Your Specialist Report Service Charges
Charges are calculated on a fixed fee basis for Specialist Report services. We will not 
charge you until we have discussed your payment options and agreed with you how we are 
to be paid. We will also let you know if there are any other costs that might arise in 
connection with the services we provide to you. The charges that you will pay are as follows:
Service  A Specialist Report including a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) of an existing 
Defined Benefit Scheme with a comparison to the proposed Defined Contribution Scheme. 
Fixed fee (inclusive of VAT) £1,995
I acknowledge that this stated that Mr S wouldnt be charged until JR had discussed 
payment options with him. But Im satisfied that JR did do this in the invoice it sent Mr S 
dated 7 September 2020. This confirmed the methods available to Mr S to make a payment. 
Although these options were limited, Im satisfied that JR provided Mr S with all available 
payment options under the circumstances.
Therefore, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
I next considered whether the compensation JR offered Mr S for the poor service he 
received was fair and reasonable.
Distress and inconvenience
JR offered to reduce the outstanding fee it said Mr S owed it by £100 (plus VAT), due to the 
poor service it had provided when it didnt return his calls or make an agreed telephone 
appointment agreed with him. It also apologised for the level of service it had provided.
Mr S said this was an insult under the circumstances. He felt JR had been rude on the 
phone. And he was also unhappy with the invoices and the legal action threats hed 
received. He said JRs handling of the situation had been very stressful and upsetting for him 
and his wife. Mr S felt that the £995 hed already paid JR was more than fair. 
While I acknowledge Mr Ss strength of feeling about his complaint, I consider that JRs offer 
of compensation is fair and reasonable for the inconvenience caused. I say this because I 
dont agree that JR acted unfairly when it asked Mr S to pay for the service it had provided. It 
did fail to return some phone calls and make an agreed telephone appointment. So I 
consider that its offer to reduce the outstanding charge by £100 plus VAT is reasonable 
under the circumstances.
I also note that the notes from the 10 September 2020 meeting recorded the following:
Although I know you are disappointed with the outcome, our meeting was a really positive conversation throughout and you have told me that the advice has been useful to you. 
The notes went on to state that Mr S had said he valued JRs work and the advice it had 
given and asked it if he could request further advice from it in future. 
Looking at the whole process, I consider that JR provided the expert opinion Mr S needed on 
what was the most suitable way to invest his pension. JR didnt give Mr S the 
recommendation he wanted, but Ive seen no evidence that its advice was flawed. 
JR has acknowledged that it didnt communicate well with Mr S towards the end. But I 
consider that the £100 plus VAT compensation it offered was fair and reasonable. Therefore, 
I dont uphold the complaint. And I dont require JR to take any further action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman