DRN-3610936
The complaint
Miss P complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) is 
holding her liable for the balance of a credit card she says she did not take out. 
Miss P has a representative in this matter.  For simplicity, I have referred to the 
representatives actions and submissions as being those of Miss P.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Miss P says she was in an abusive relationship whereby her former partner took a 
credit card out in her name without her knowledge or consent in 2015.  She says that her 
former partner used the credit card, which eventually resulted in the account falling into 
arrears and Tesco issuing a default notice and terminating the account in 2018.
In 2020, Miss P contacted Tesco about the above.  Tesco carried out an investigation and 
held Miss P liable for the outstanding credit card balance.  Unhappy with this, Miss P raised 
a complaint which she also referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As an agreement 
could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Miss P says, amongst other things, that the Tesco credit card was taken out  without my 
knowledge and consent.  Having considered this carefully, I am unable to agree.  I will 
explain why.
I am satisfied, on balance, that Miss P had knowledge that the Tesco credit card had been 
taken out in her name.  I say this because Miss P has accepted that she used the credit card 
for her own purposes.  Further, Miss P accepts that she made minimum payments towards 
the credit card account balance.  I am of the view that these points clearly show that Miss P 
had knowledge that the credit card had been taken out in her name.
I am also satisfied, on balance, that Miss P consented to the Tesco credit card being taken 
out in her name.  I say this because Miss Ps actions, which I set out above, are, to my mind, 
indicative of someone who had provided consent for a credit card to be taken out.  I am 
particularly persuaded by the fact that Miss P made her own personal transactions using the 
credit card in 2015, 2016 and 2017  which she accepts she benefited from and was not 
coerced to make.  
I acknowledge the personal circumstances Miss P has described about her former partner 
being abusive and in control of her finances.  However, when considering cases such as 
these, I must be fair to both parties involved, so that means Tesco as well as Miss P.  With 
that in mind, based on the evidence before me, I have not seen anything to suggest that 
Miss P made Tesco aware of her personal circumstances, or that it ought reasonably to 
have become aware of them during the period we are concerned with.  So, whilst I do have 
great sympathy for Miss P based on what she says she experienced, I am unable to 
conclude fairly that Tesco ought to have intervened, as it was not aware of Miss Ps personal 
circumstances at the time.
Further, regarding both knowledge and consent, I have taken into the consideration the fact 
that Miss P says her relationship ended with her former partner in 2018.  However, she did 
not raise the matter concerned with Tesco until 2020.  Again, I sympathise with why Miss P 
says she waited so long to contact Tesco.  However, I am unable to shy away from the fact 
that a significant amount of time had passed between when the relationship had ended, and 
when Tesco was finally made aware of what Miss P has described.  With these points in 
mind, I am satisfied that they support my view that Miss P had knowledge of and consented 
to the credit card being taken out.
Miss P argues that the signature used to take out the credit card does not match hers.  
However, whilst this may indeed be the case, this point does not negate the fact that she 
had knowledge of and consented to the credit card being taken out; funds of which she had 
use of.
I note Miss P says that Tesco requested some medical evidence from her, but before 
considering it  Tesco issued its decision on her complaint.  Having considered this evidence 
myself, I am not of the view that it changes the outcome of this complaint, so I am satisfied 
that Tesco did not do anything wrong in this regard.
Finally, Miss P has referred to another one of her complaints with our Service which is 
against a different business.  This complaint was upheld by one of our investigators and, 
Miss P says, arises from the same facts as the complaint in question.  Consequently, Miss P 
argues that this should be taken into consideration.  On this point, I would say that each 
complaint is dealt with on a case by case basis, and so I am unable to comment on the 
merits or outcome of Miss Ps other case.
Taking all the above points together, I am satisfied that Miss P had knowledge of and 
consented to the Tesco credit being taken out in her name.  It follows that I am satisfied 
Tesco acted fairly and reasonably: by holding Miss P liable for the outstanding balance of 
the credit card; and the action it took once the account fell into arrears.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 August 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman