DRN-3705347
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with esure Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim he made on his car 
insurance policy.
 
References to esure include its agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr T had a car insurance policy with esure and phoned to make a claim when he was 
involved in an accident. He says the agent he spoke to failed to phone him back when the 
line disconnected, and left him and his wife stranded on the motorway. He says the police 
arranged for the car to be recovered to a local garage, he had to hire a car for his onwards 
travel and he thinks esure should cover the hire costs. Mr T is also unhappy esure didnt 
arrange for the items in his car to be returned to him when it said it would. And he doesnt 
agree with its valuation of his car.
esure said there was no cover for onward travel, so it didnt think it needed to cover the cost 
of Mr Ts hire car. It said the engineer had deemed the car a total loss in line with the terms 
of the policy. It recognised it was taking longer than expected to have Mr Ts personal 
belongings returned to him. And it accepted the initial phone call Mr T had with its claims 
handler wasnt to the standard it would expect. It paid £200 compensation for the aspects of 
the service it provided that had let Mr T down. 
Mr T didnt agree with esures findings and brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think esure needed to 
reimburse Mr T for the hire car. He thought esure had weighed up sufficient information in 
deciding Mr Ts car was a total loss, and it had fairly valued his car. He said esure had tried 
to contact the recovery company for Mr Ts belongings but hadnt received a response, so 
didnt think it could be held responsible for the non-return of the items. Our investigator also 
thought esure had fairly compensated Mr T for the poor service he had received. 
Mr T didnt accept our investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
said: 
Had he not been lucky enough to get a lift by the police transport driver he was 
effectively left stranded on the motorway by esure with no assistance. 
He thinks he had no choice but to hire a vehicle, because esure didnt call back with 
any options or help.
He says esure promised to return his goods but failed to do so even when he told it 
where they were. So, he says he holds it responsible for £700 of losses.
He also says he was told it would have its investigator assess the damage to the car, 
but even after several requests it didnt show evidence that they had assessed the 
damages apart from reviewing the photographs he sent. He says he didnt want the 
car written off, he wanted it repaired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I partially uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to reassure Mr T that Ive considered everything he and esure have said, but 
Ive not commented on it all in my decision. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key 
issues and explaining what is important to the decision Ive reached.
Hire car
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy and I dont think it included cover 
for onward travel or to get him home after an accident. So, I dont think esure was required 
to get Mr T to his destination. 
The terms and conditions of the policy also state: 
If you make a claim under Section 2 or Section 3 of your policy and we decide that your car 
is a total loss or it has been stolen and not recovered, we will provide a hired car by the end 
of the next working day 
While Mr Ts policy did include car hire cover, I find this provision was only available once 
the car was assessed and deemed a total loss. This is a common term found in car 
insurance policies and I think its reasonable.
Had esure arranged the recovery of Mr Ts car, it confirmed the recovery agent wouldve 
taken him to the nearest safe place. Therefore, Im satisfied Mr T would still have been 
responsible for arranging his own onward travel following the accident. And, on balance, I 
think its likely he wouldve still needed to hire the car. Ultimately, I find the hire car was an 
uninsured loss Mr T would have incurred regardless, so I dont think esure needs to refund 
this cost. 
Engineers assessment
The terms and conditions of the policy entitle esure to settle the claim however it sees fit. 
That said, we would still expect it to do so fairly and reasonably. I understand Mr T thinks 
esure shouldve had the car inspected, but I dont think it had to. Its for esure to determine 
whether it thinks a physical inspection is required, and Im not persuaded it would have 
made a difference to the outcome of the claim.
While a physical inspection might have revealed the full extent of the damage, its engineers 
reviewed the photographs of the damage and from what they saw they thought it would cost 
over £3,000 to repair Mr Ts car, but they valued the car at £2,250. As such, they deemed it 
a total loss. 
I appreciate Mr T didnt want the car written off and thought esure would discuss it with him 
beforehand, but I dont think it had to and I cant see that he was told it would. The engineer 
thought the cost of the repairs would be higher than the cars value. I think its reasonable for 
an insurer to write off a car if it deems it uneconomical to repair. 
Prior to the engineers review, Mr T stated he wanted to retain the car and have it repaired 
by his own garage. While it may not have provided him with an engineers report, Ive 
listened to the phone call with the engineer and Im satisfied Mr T was told he could retain 
the car, but he chose not to. Even if Mr T retained the car, I dont think it would have changed esures decision to declare it a write off. Ultimately, Im satisfied esure applied the 
terms fairly and its decision was reasonable.
Valuation
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of the policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Mr Ts policy, esure must pay him the market value of the car, less 
his excess.
The terms define market value as:
 the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on the open market 
immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is based on cars of 
the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at the time of 
accident or loss
esure used valuation guides to determine an estimated pre-accident value for Mr Ts car. Its 
common practice in the industry to use valuation guides to work out an estimated value for a 
car, and I dont think its unreasonable it does so. This is because, the guides are based on 
national research on likely selling prices for similar cars of a similar age and mileage for sale 
at the time of the loss. We usually find these are more reliable than individual adverts which 
can vary greatly in price. 
Our investigator carried out a search using the same guides esure relied on. These 
produced values of £2,095, £1,036, and £3,050. I accept Mr Ts may have been a limited-
edition imported car, but I dont think that means its valuation would be higher. We often find 
imported cars sell for a lower price than UK registered versions. Nevertheless, Ive looked at 
advertised prices for similar cars, and the prices Ive seen ranged between £1,700 to £3,450, 
however the cars priced higher than esures offer, all had a significantly lower mileage than 
Mr Ts car did.   
Therefore, Im satisfied the valuations produced by the guides are fair. esures valuation of 
£2,250 falls within the range of figures the guides produced, so I think its reasonable. 
Personal belongings
esure said it would instruct its agents to pick up Mr Ts car and belongings, and I think its 
reasonable he relied on what was said. He later informed esure his belongings hadnt been 
returned and were still with the third-party recovery agent. Even though Mr T phoned several 
times to query this, I cant see esure made any further attempts to contact the recovery 
company until several months later. This was after the complaint had been brought to our 
service. I understand the policy only requires it to cover the loss or damage of goods, 
however, I think it could have done more to support Mr T, or at the very least informed him if 
it couldnt. 
esure has now agreed to pay an additional £500 in compensation for the loss of the 
belongings and the upset its actions caused. Mr Ts policy includes cover for personal 
belongings, but the cover limit is £150, which is less than its offered. Mr T has listed items 
he says were left in the car and estimates the cost to have been around £700. However, he 
hasnt provided enough evidence to support the costs he has claimed for. Considering these 
items wouldnt have been brand new, theyre unlikely to have been of the same value as 
new items. In light of all this, and the impact of its error on Mr T, I think the offer is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Customer service  
Mr T feels esure abandoned him and his wife following the accident, but I find the next steps 
were made clear to him. During the conversation with the call handler, it was decided that 
the police would be recovering the car to a local garage. Mr T agreed with the call handler 
that he would phone back when the car was in the garage, but I cant see that he did. 
Nevertheless, an accident is always stressful and can be traumatic and I think the phone call 
with the agent wouldve been distressing in what was already a difficult situation for Mr T. As 
I mentioned above, the policy didnt include cover for onward travel, and I think the agent 
should have made it clear esure would only assist with arranging onward travel, but it would 
be at his own cost. 
esure accepts the initial telephone call Mr T had with its agent could have been better. I also 
think esure could have communicated better with Mr T during the claim. Its acknowledged 
that its service could have been better. I understand the process has been frustrating and 
upsetting for Mr T. esure paid him £200 compensation for the poor service he received, and I 
think thats fair. 
My final decision
esure Insurance Limited has offered to pay £500 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that esure Insurance Limited should pay £500 in addition to the £200 they 
already offered Mr T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman