DRN-1895910
The complaint
Mr R says MYJAR Limited lent to him irresponsibly. He says the loans were unaffordable 
and he was allowed to take loans consecutively. He also says he ended up in debt spiral 
because of this. He thinks that MYJAR shouldve seen this and not lent to him. 
What happened
MYJAR initially looked at Mr Rs complaint and said that it didnt hold information about the 
loans he said he had taken. This is because it only held data for five years. It didnt uphold 
his complaint for this reason. 
Mr R brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Given the information 
provided the first adjudicator wrote to Mr R and explained that we couldnt look at his 
complaint as there was no clear evidence that he had borrowed from MYJAR. 
In time Mr R responded and provided some information from his credit file that showed he 
had borrowed £500 from MYJAR in May 2014. The credit file shows he repaid an 
unspecified amount monthly and the loan was now repaid. Mr R was unable to provide more 
detailed information than this. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think it was likely that MYJAR wouldve 
been made aware that Mr R was in financial difficulty. And so it was reasonable for it to lend. 
Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that MYJAR had lent to him a number 
of times under its TXTLoan brand. He was using a large number of other payday loan 
providers and most of these have upheld his mis selling complaints.  
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
The only substantive evidence I have is that Mr R took one loan from MYJAR in 2015. Both 
MYJAR and Mr R dont have any further, conclusive, information than this. I can see that Mr 
R says he had further loans but without further details about these I cant really take them 
into account. 
As Ive outlined above, I wouldve expected MYJAR to look at Mr Rs income and 
expenditure before approving this loan. And from what I know about its business practices 
at the time it was likely to have done this. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely MYJAR was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr R mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Mr Rs circumstances further. I dont have any compelling evidence that it was 
aware of any other lending Mr R had. 
So, overall, having looked at everything, I think MYJARs decision to lend was likely to be 
reasonable. And in any event I wouldnt be able to make an award in respect of any other 
lending without knowing some basic details about it. Because of this Im not upholding Mr 
Rs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman