DRN-3105823
The complaint
Mrs A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) should have made her 
aware of lower interest rate products that she could have taken out on her mortgage 
account. She feels shes unfairly paid the standard variable rate for several years as a result.
Mrs As mortgage was a joint mortgage with her late husband, Mr A, but hes since passed 
away. The late Mr A was made bankrupt in 2016. The trustee in bankruptcy has confirmed 
they have an interest in this complaint. Whilst they are party to this complaint, for simplicity, I 
will refer only to Mrs A as the complainant throughout this decision.
What happened
Mrs A has a mortgage with NatWest which reverted to NatWests standard variable rate 
(SVR) in 2009. The mortgage remained on the SVR until 2020 when Mrs A successfully 
applied for a new interest rate product after a conversation with NatWest about releasing 
some equity in the property.
After finding out she was able to take out a new interest rate product, Mrs A complained to 
NatWest. She was unhappy NatWest hadnt told her that there were lower interest rates 
available for her to take out on the mortgage. As a result, she felt shed been paying the 
SVR unnecessarily for 11 years. She said if shed been made aware of the rates available to 
her sooner, she could have reduced the borrowing more quickly, and increased the equity in 
her property.
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. They said the mortgage offers explained that the 
mortgage would revert to the SVR, and the relevant dates. They said the annual mortgage 
statements made it clear what interest rate was applied to the account. And when the 
mortgage reverted to the SVR NatWest would have written to Mrs A to remind her of the 
reversion, but due to the length of time that had passed a copy of those letters had not been 
retained.
Mrs A brought her complaint to our service. NatWest didnt give our service consent to 
consider Mrs As complaint about what happened more than six years before the complaint 
was made. Our investigator looked into things, and explained that she thought Mrs As 
complaint had been made within the time limits. But having considered the complaint, she 
didnt think NatWest had treated Mrs A unfairly.
Mrs A disagreed, and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. So the 
complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest have not disputed our investigators view that our service can consider all of 
Mrs As complaint. So I have reviewed the merits of Mrs As complaint. Whilst I appreciate it 
will come as a disappointment to Mrs A, I have reached the same outcome as the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
There is no dispute here that Mrs A was aware the mortgage was on the SVR since the fixed 
rate products expired in 2009. Shes said she assumed the mortgage would have to remain 
on the SVR for the remainder of the mortgage, as that was what was indicated in the 
documents agreed to at the time the mortgage was taken out. So the decision I need to 
make is whether NatWest should have done more to make Mrs A aware that there were 
other fixed rate options available that were lower than the SVR she was paying. And if theyd 
done so, would that have made a difference to the amount of interest Mrs A has paid on the 
mortgage as a result.
As a starting point, Ive reviewed the documents Mrs A has referred to from the time she 
took this mortgage out, as well as the additional borrowing. The mortgage offers clearly state 
that the fixed rates would apply for the first two years, after which the mortgage would revert 
to the SVR. And thats what happened in 2009.
Mrs A has said that as NatWest didnt include any information in the mortgage offers about 
the option to take out further interest rate products once the initial ones had expired, she 
didnt realise she had a choice to pay a rate other than the SVR for the remainder of the 
term. Mrs A is correct in saying there was no information in the offer about the availability of 
rates after the reversion date. But thats because the mortgage offer, and associated terms 
and conditions, formed the contract of the lending NatWest had agreed to in relation to 
Mrs As mortgage. Contractually, the mortgage would revert to the SVR once the initial 
interest rates expired.
 
Lenders arent obliged to offer further promotional rates to borrowers once their initial rates 
expire. And so I wouldnt expect to see information contained in the mortgage offer about 
what rates may be available after the point the mortgage reverted, as there was no 
guarantee there would be any. This is not a common feature of mortgage offer documents 
and I dont think NatWest were acting unfairly by not including that information at the time 
the mortgage was agreed.
In practice, a lot of lenders do continue to offer borrowers promotional interest rate products 
throughout the term of the mortgage  both to attract new customers and to retain existing 
ones. But these rates need to be applied for by the borrowers, and then applications would 
need to be approved subject to eligibility criteria being met. NatWest did offer new rates to 
their existing borrowers whilst Mrs As mortgage was on the SVR. But Mrs A didnt apply for 
these, as she says she didnt know she could. So Ive thought about whether NatWest ought 
to have done more during the term of the mortgage to make Mrs A aware of the rates they 
offered.
Lenders werent required to pro-actively notify borrowers of other mortgage products that 
may have been of interest to them. And it wasnt common practice to do that across the 
industry either. NatWest did have to inform Mrs A what her monthly payments were, which 
Im satisfied they did from the evidence Ive seen. They also kept her informed about the 
interest rate applicable to the account. Im aware there was also promotional information on 
NatWests website about the interest rate products they offered to customers. But Mrs A has 
said that she was a busy person and not financially minded, so she didnt ever enquire about 
other options that may have been available. 
Whilst I appreciate Mrs A may not have had the time or the knowledge to research other 
options that may have led to cheaper monthly payments, Im not persuaded thats as a result 
of NatWest treating her unfairly.
 Whilst NatWest werent required to pro-actively contact Mrs A about interest rates at the time 
shes complained about, Ive thought about whether there were other interactions during the 
mortgage term which I think ought to have prompted NatWest to do more to share this 
information. Having reviewed the contact notes and history of the account, Im not satisfied 
there were any occasions where I would have expected NatWest to do more. I note that 
there have been periods where there were significant arrears that built up on the account. 
The bankruptcy was also in place between 2016 and 2019, and I think both of these things 
would have likely impacted Mrs As eligibility for new rates at the relevant times.
I do understand Mrs A feels strongly about this complaint, and the fact that shes paid more 
than she feels she needed to over a significant period. But whilst I do empathise with Mrs As 
position, Im not persuaded NatWest has acted unfairly.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr O 
and the estate of Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman