DRN-2734303
The complaint  
Mr H complains about the poor level of service and that his claim was declined by Allianz 
Global Assistance (Allianz) under his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
  In February 2020, Mr H contacted Allianz to make a claim under his policy as his multifuel 
burner was leaking. The next day Allianz declined his claim. Mr H complained to Allianz as 
he felt he had a valid claim. He also felt that he had been let down in the initial response he 
received from Allianz, because of the lack of clarity, delays in responding to him and poor 
customer service. 
Mr H wanted Allianz to reverse the claims decision, pay £500 for the replacement burner that 
he had to buy. Reimburse the cost of rectifying the leak, as well as compensation for all the 
trouble and upset Allianz caused. 
In its final response, Allianz maintained that the claim was correctly declined as Mr H 
couldnt prove that the burner had been serviced in the previous 24 months. But, said that 
the claims handlers level of service during one of the calls, fell short of its usual high 
standards, in that it couldve been more pro-active in trying to find other solutions to minimise 
the inconvenience caused. So, it apologised and offered a goodwill gesture of £50.
Mr H was unhappy with this outcome and so referred a complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it. He had requested the full 
business file including the terms and conditions of the policy, schedule, correspondence and 
notes from Allianz. He had also provided Allianz with details of Mr Hs complaint. But 
following several requests, our investigator received no response from Allianz. 
Consequently, he recommended that Allianz reconsider the claim, pay £500 for the 
replacement burner, as well as £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr H accepted our investigators recommendations. But as Allianz has failed to respond, it 
has been referred to an ombudsman for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Allianz was asked to provide its response to this complaint and any further evidence, 
but no information has been received. Mr H has provided a consistent account of the 
events that happened. In this case, despite the lack of evidence from Allianz, I find I 
can make a decision on this complaint and I think it fair that Mr H has a resolution to 
the issues he raised despite the lack of engagement from Allianz.
Mr H explains that the initial phone call with Allianz, were he made the claim, he felt 
let down due to the lack of clarity and the mixed messages that he received. He said 
that he was told that the claim would be upheld. But then followed delays in 
responding to his calls, before Allianz ultimately declined Mr Hs claim. 
Allianz hasnt responded to our information requests, so I have nothing to dispute Mr 
Hs version of events. Nor can I properly review the reasoning behind Allianzs 
decision to decline the claim. However, based on Mr Hs consistent account, I find it 
reasonable to accept that he was informed that the claim would be upheld. And as 
the only evidence that has been presented comes from Mr H, I think its fair that Mr H 
has a resolution to this complaint. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, Allianz should reimburse Mr H £500 for the replacement burner (on 
receipt of the invoice). Pay a further £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused and £2380 reimbursement of the costs of rectifying the leak (on receipt of an 
invoice). 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
To put matters right, Allianz Global Assistance to reimburse £500 the cost of the 
replacement burner, on receipt of an invoice from Mr H.
Allianz Global Assistance to reimburse £2380 the cost of rectifying the leak on receipt of an 
invoice from Mr H.
Allianz Global Assistance to pay £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Allianz Global Assistance should also pay interest on the amounts above, at a rate of 8% 
simple a year from the date of payment, to settlement. 
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Allianz Global Assistance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred above, Allianz Global Assistance must give Mr H a certificate showing how 
much tax they deduct if he asks them for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman