DRN-3616946
The complaint
Mr P complains about advice received from Phoenix Life Limited when taking out a Whole of 
Life policy in 1989.
Mr P is being represented in his complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). For 
ease I will refer to all actions as being those of Mr P.
What happened
Mr P took out a Whole of Life policy after taking advice from Phoenix in 1989 and there was 
an amendment made in 1994. The policy was surrendered in 2004.
In 2021 Mr P complained to Phoenix saying he was advised to take out the policy but there 
is no paperwork to justify the advice provided. 
Phoenix agreed there was no Planning Your Future document from the time of the sale 
saying they are only obliged to maintain records for seven years. They said the policy also 
had critical illness cover and the sum assured was £100,000. Phoenix didnt uphold the 
complaint saying the sum assured was suitable and the policy lasted fifteen years which was 
not what they would expect from a consumer who felt they did not require the cover the 
policy provided. 
Mr P remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They didnt uphold the complaint saying they 
hadnt seen anything to suggest the policy had been mis-sold. And also given the length of 
time since the policy was sold in 2004 it wasnt unreasonable that there was limited 
paperwork. 
Mr P disagreed saying it wasnt reasonable to assume there was a need for cover without 
any documentation. So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where documentation or information is incomplete, such as in the complaint, I have to make 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened. 
Given that the policy was sold in 1989 and surrendered in 2004 I dont think its 
unreasonable that Phoenix no longer have all the documentation from the time of sale. This 
is quite some time ago and so its not unusual for such paperwork to no longer be available. 
In these circumstances it wouldnt be fair of me to decide that Phoenix had done something 
wrong simply because they were, understandably, unable to provide documentation from 
such a long time ago. 
What I understand from the time of the sale is that Mr P was married with one child and was 
self-employed. The policy was for whole of life and critical illness with a sum assured of 
£100,000. 
When dealing with our Investigator Mr P said that at the time of the sale he had a business 
overdraft and loan. And that circumstances were somewhat difficult following interest rate 
rises in the early 1990s. He was also concerned that he was advised to commit to a long-
term plan when his financial situation wasnt secure. 
Ive thought about this and Im not persuaded the circumstances Mr P describe made the 
policy unsuitable. The cover provided protection should Mr P be unable to work because of a 
critical illness. The cover was long term and stayed in place for some 15 years. I wasnt party 
to conversation when the advice was given but I think it reasonable to assume that the long-
term nature of the policy was discussed and taken into consideration.  
In order to uphold this complaint and say that policy was mis-sold I would need to be 
persuaded that the policy was unsuitable. And I havent seen any persuasive evidence to 
show thats the case. The policy was seemingly what Mr P wanted at the time and provided 
valuable cover up until it was surrendered in 2004. 
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied the policy was suitable for Mr P and 
provided the cover he required at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman