DRN-2020936
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc sent his personal information to the wrong 
address.
What happened
Mr L had an account with Bank of Scotland. In November 2019 he contacted the bank to let 
it know that he had moved house and to change his address. However in December a letter 
was sent to his old address containing sensitive personal information including details of the 
debt Mr L owed. 
In January 2020 Bank of Scotland sent another letter to Mr Ls old address. Mr L 
Complained.
Bank of Scotland responded and apologised for the error. It offered Mr L £300 
compensation.
Mr L didnt think this was enough. He said he had told Bank of Scotland about his new 
address in good time. And it had failed to update its records. Further he said his old address 
was a homeless shelter, so numerous people could have access to mail that went there. He 
said this was particularly distressing. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said the fact there were two letters sent to the wrong address was particularly distressing for 
Mr L so recommended the compensation should be increased to £400.
Bank of Scotland didnt agree as it thought £300 compensation was a fair amount in the 
circumstances. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland has accepted it made a mistake by not changing Mr Ls address on its 
system. So I need to decide if it has done enough to put things right for Mr L in the 
circumstances. 
Mr L originally called Bank of Scotland in November 2019 to inform it of his address change. 
Since this notification, it has sent two separate letters to his previous address. The letters 
contained personal and sensitive information. So I can understand why Mr L would be 
concerned. 
Further, his previous address was a homeless shelter. Mr L has explained that there are a 
lot of people who live there who may have had access to letters sent to the address. And 
therefore could have accessed his personal information. So this would be particularly 
distressing for Mr L. Especially as it happened on two occasions.
The letters sent incorrectly both contained sensitive information including Mr Ls account 
details. However the first letter also had details of the amount of debt Mr L owed. So not only 
is this sensitive, but it could also cause Mr L embarrassment. Particularly as he previously 
lived with those still residing in the shelter, so he would be known to them. Mr L has also 
expressed concerns that the information could be used against him by some people who live 
there. And although there has been no evidence that this has happened, I can understand 
why this would be a concern.
Bank of Scotland has said that there is no evidence that the letters were opened and may 
have just been disregarded. I agree that there appears to have been no action that would 
suggest they have. However, I dont think this would have had an impact on the distress the 
situation has caused Mr L. As he was left in the knowledge that this could have happened.
Mr L took steps to ensure this wouldnt happen  by updating his address details in good 
time. So Bank of Scotland should have ensured this change was made. Due to its mistake 
Mr L has been caused significant distress on two occasions. So I agree with our investigator 
that it should pay a total of £400 compensation to make up for that distress.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr L a total of £400 
compensation, less any amounts already paid, to compensate for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused him. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that 
Mr L has accepted my final decision. If Bank of Scotland plc pay later than this they must 
also pay interest on that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman