DRN-3859062
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way that Pinnacle Insurance Plc has handled disability claims he 
made on a mortgage protection insurance policy.
Mr H is represented by Mrs H.
What happened
In September 2006, Mr H took out a mortgage protection insurance policy. The policy 
provided a monthly benefit of £1250, if he became unable to work due to accident or 
sickness, or if he became unemployed.
Mr H has made disability claims between 2020 and 2022. In October 2021, Pinnacle 
accepted and paid a disability claim. Mr H returned to work on 20 November 2021. In 
January 2022, Mr H was signed-off work again and made another claim.  However, Mr H 
hadnt returned to work for more than six months after hed returned to work in November 
2021. So Pinnacle linked this claim to Mr Hs previous claim, in line with the policy terms, as 
it said that both claims were linked to diabetes. It reopened the October 2021 claim and said 
it would pay a maximum of 12 monthly benefit payments in accordance with the contract. 
Unhappy with Pinnacles decision, Mrs H asked us to look into this complaint. She said that 
in October 2021, Mr H had been signed off with bereavement and exhaustion. But in 
January 2022, Mr H had been signed-off with unstable foot pain and structural changes. This 
was an entirely separate diagnosis to the reason for Mr Hs incapacity in October 2021. So 
she didnt think it was fair for Pinnacle to link the two claims and limit the benefit payable.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She felt the claim forms 
which had been sent to Pinnacle showed that both the 2021 and 2022 claims were linked to 
Mr Hs existing diagnoses of renal failure and diabetes. And she noted that Mr H hadnt 
returned to work for more than six months following his 2021 period of illness. So she 
thought Pinnacle had fairly linked the two claims, in line with the policy terms.
Mrs H disagreed and Ive summarised her response. She felt thered been a 
misunderstanding of the medical information given on Mr Hs claim forms. She felt that 
simply having diabetes had been used as a background reason to link Mr Hs claims. She 
said that Mr Hs October 2021 absence had primarily been down to bereavement, which had 
contributed to unstable diabetes. She considered that Charcot foot and bereavement were 
standalone conditions in their own right, regardless of Mr H suffering from diabetes. She felt 
this was somewhat discriminatory.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, I think Pinnacle has treated him fairly 
and Ill explain why.
First, its clear that Mr H has suffered from ill-health for some time now and I dont doubt how 
upsetting this has been for both him and his family. I was also sorry to read about the sad 
loss of his close relative. Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs H that Ive carefully considered all 
theyve sent us.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Hs policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether Pinnacle 
has handled Mr Hs claims fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Hs 
contract with Pinnacle. Page two of the policy document sets out the available disability 
benefits. This says:
If you become disabled during the period of insurance, you will be entitled to the monthly 
benefit for each period of 30 consecutive days you are off work due to the disability.
One monthly benefit payment will be made for each period of 30 consecutive days you 
continue to meet the conditions for payment until:
(a) we have paid 12 monthly benefit payments;
(b) you return to work.
You must return to work for at least 1 month before you can make another claim for disability 
benefit for an unrelated condition or for at least 6 months before you can make another claim 
for disability benefit for a related condition.
Mr H made a successful disability claim following a period of absence in October 2021 and 
he returned to work in November 2021. He subsequently made a further disability claim in 
January 2022. This was only around two months after his previous return to work. As 
Pinnacle considers that Mr Hs January 2022 claim was for a condition which was related to 
the October 2021 claim, it concluded that the two claims should be linked and that the 
October 2021 claim should be reopened. So Ive gone on to think about whether this was a 
fair conclusion for Pinnacle to draw.
Like the investigator, Ive looked closely at the October 2021 and January 2022 claim forms 
which were completed by Mr H, his employer and Mr Hs doctor. These set out the reasons 
for Mr Hs absence and I think it was reasonable for Pinnacle to place significant weight on 
this contemporaneous evidence, which included medical evidence from Mr Hs GP.
In October 2021, Mr Hs GP gave details of his sickness. The form required the GP to list 
conditions in the order of severity. The first illness the GP listed was advancing renal failure, 
the second was unstable diabetes (type 1) and the third was acute stress, low mood, 
bereavement. The GP noted that all three conditions had prevented Mr H from working 
since October 2021.
The January 2022 claim form also includes a section which has been completed by Mr Hs 
GP. The most serious condition has been listed as possible Charcot foot. The GP has listed 
the second cause to be ongoing background of renal failure and diabetes. The GP has also 
referred to recurrent Charcot foot symptoms as diabetes complications. And they stated 
that in addition to being under podiatry, Mr H was under long-term diabetes and renal follow-up.
From my own research, it appears that Charcot foot is a common problem in people with 
diabetes and a serious complication of diabetes. And indeed, it seems that the GP has 
linked Mr Hs diabetes and renal failure with the condition which led to the claim in January 
2022. Id add too that Mr H himself wrote on the claim form that hed been referred to 
diabetes podiatry for his symptoms.
In my view, it was reasonable and appropriate for Pinnacle to base its decision on the 
medical evidence provided by the GP and conclude that the cause of Mr Hs condition in 
January 2022 was related to the cause of his claim in October 2021. This means that I think 
it was fair for Pinnacle to reopen the October 2021 claim and pay benefit in line with the 
policy terms.
I appreciate Mrs H considers that Mr H may have been discriminated against but having 
looked at all the evidence I dont think Pinnacle has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. 
Thats because Im satisfied that Pinnacle has fairly considered the available evidence and 
assessed the claim in line with the policy terms, as its required to do. I havent seen any 
evidence that its singled Mr H out in any way. I hope that it helps Mr H to know that 
someone impartial and independent has looked into Mrs Hs concerns on this point.
Pinnacle has since said that the medical evidence shows that Mr H was diagnosed with 
diabetes over 20 years before the policy was taken out and renal failure a few months 
beforehand. The policy excludes cover for conditions which existed before the policy began. 
Therefore, it says that no benefit shouldve been paid under the policy for either the October 
2021 or January 2022 claims and it wont pay any future claims for these conditions. I make 
no finding on whether or not this was a fair conclusion for Pinnacle to reach. But should Mr H 
be unhappy with Pinnacles position on this point or if future claims are declined for that 
reason, he may be able to make new complaints to Pinnacle about that particular issue.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr Hs position, I think that Pinnacle was reasonably 
entitled to link his claims. And so Im not directing it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman