DRN-2439907
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Paymentshield Ltd unfairly changed the underwriter of their
legal expenses policy while they had an ongoing dispute. 
What happened
The details and background of this complaint are complex and well known to both parties, so 
I will not repeat everything in detail here. In summary, Mr and Mrs M have been involved in a 
long running dispute with their neighbours concerning a boundary dispute and encroachment 
on to their land, which has resulted in numerous claims being made with different insurers, 
as well as several complaints being made to this service (which have been addressed in 
final decisions issued by myself as well as other ombudsmen).
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about Paymentshield concerns its acts/omissions in its capacity 
as the insurance broker of their legal expenses policy. They say that a change of underwriter 
from DAS to Coplus during the period in which theyve held the policy led to problems with 
their ongoing claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the reasons set out below.
I understand that further points of complaint have been put forwards by Mr and Mrs M since 
they brought their complaint to this service. However, as set out by the investigator, our remit 
for this complaint concerns the points that have been addressed by Paymentshield in its final 
response letter of 11 August 2020. Anything Mr and Mrs M have raised subsequent to this 
would need to form the basis of a separate complaint. This decision is also not considering 
which insurer ought to bear responsibility for any of Mr and Mrs Ms claims, as this has been 
dealt with by this service in separate complaints. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M do not consider it was reasonable for Paymentshield to have 
changed underwriters while they had an ongoing dispute. But Paymentshield are entitled to 
change the providers and/or underwriters of its policy. It does not need to seek agreement 
from every policyholder in order to do so, but it should make its customer aware of the 
change, as well as any changes to the terms and conditions.
I appreciate there has been some uncertainty about the date the change of underwriter 
actually took effect. Paymentshield initially said the change took effect in 2017, but then said 
2014. Mr and Mrs M say that theres evidence to suggest the change of underwriter occurred 
in September 2013, which Coplus have acknowledged as being correct. Paymentshield have 
said it does not hold any documentation that pre-dates 2014  which isnt surprising 
considering the length of time that has passed. So the broker is not able to demonstrate 
what documentation was sent to Mr and Mrs M in 2013, and the extent to which this 
informed them of the change in underwriter. 
However, Paymentshield has provided the renewal documentation it sent in August 2014, 
where I can see that the change of underwriter was noted. And I can also see that the 
underwriter of the legal expenses policy was named in all subsequent renewal 
documentation. So, I have little reason to doubt that Paymentshield wouldnt have specified 
the change in underwriter in any 2013 renewal documentation. Indeed, I have seen a copy of 
the policy terms and conditions that had been revised on 18 March 2013, which do set out 
that ULR Additions (which has since rebranded to Coplus) were the underwriters of the legal 
expenses cover, not DAS. So I think it ought to have been reasonably clear who any claims 
should subsequently have been directed to. 
It isnt uncommon for a change in underwriter to occur on a policy, and it simply means that 
any claims made with an event date on or after the change of underwriter should be directed 
to the new insurer, with any claims pre-dating this being on risk with previous insurer. I 
appreciate the change has caused issues for Mr and Mrs M in terms of the insurers arguing 
over which one is responsible for their claim. But such issues are the responsibility of the 
insurer itself  not Paymentshield as the broker. I also understand that Paymentshield may 
have contributed to the confusion of who was responsible for cover as they supplied 
incorrect dates regarding the change of underwriter. But while I acknowledge this wouldve 
been frustrating for Mr and Mrs M, its not something that I consider warrants an award of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience in these circumstances, and Im also not 
persuaded it has caused them any other financial loss that ought to be compensated either.
Mr and Mrs M consider that Paymentshield should have intervened when the two 
underwriters were placing responsibility for the claim upon the other and say it should have 
directed one of the insurers to take the claim forwards. But it is not within Paymentshields 
remit; it is not responsible for directing a particular insurer to indemnify a claim, as this 
decision ultimately rests with the underwriters.  
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M. But in the circumstances, 
Im not persuaded that Paymentshield has acted unfairly by changing the underwriter of its 
legal expenses insurance during the life of their policy, so I will not be asking it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman