DRN-4306791
The complaint
Miss K complains HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) provided her with poor customer service when 
she was looking to make a cash withdrawal from her bank account.  
What happened
Miss K says in early May 2023 she telephoned HSBC as she wished to make a large cash 
withdrawal from her bank account and was told by the advisor she could visit the branch on 
a Saturday to do that, but when she made the visit the counter tills were closed. Miss K says 
she complained about this misinformation and was awarded £100 for the inconvenience. 
Miss K says she also telephoned HSBC that day to increase her cash withdrawal limit, 
organise a payment to a family member and gain access to her online banking. Miss K says 
over this time she was transferred to the wrong departments causing her to continually 
repeat what she had said, given misinformation about gaining access to her online/mobile 
banking and says HSBC service was unacceptable causing her considerable inconvenience 
and upset. 
Miss K says although HSBC have paid her £300 by way of apology this doesnt go far 
enough for the inconvenience and upset this matter has caused. 
HSBC says it accepts it has not provided Miss K with the level of customer service it would 
expect and have provided feedback to the managers and staff involved to avoid any future 
repetition. HSBC felt it had adequately compensated Miss K for this, as it has paid £300 by 
way of compensation. Miss K wasnt happy with HSBCs level of compensation and referred 
the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says after listening to a number of phone calls between Miss K and HSBC it is 
clear there had been some servicing errors by HSBC. 
The investigator felt HSBC had acknowledged that, apologised and paid Miss K £100 for the 
misinformation about the availability to withdraw cash on a Saturday. The investigator 
pointed out HSBC had made a further £200 compensation payment for the various issues 
Miss K faced when attempting to increase her cash withdrawal limit, access online banking 
and make a payment to a family member and felt this compensation payment was sufficient 
here. 
The investigator referred Miss K to the levels of compensation this service would look to 
award in similar circumstances and felt the overall redress of £300 was fair. 
Miss K didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating and upsetting for Miss K to have suffered the 
poor levels of service she did here. When looking at this complaint, given HSBC have 
accepted the shortcomings in the service levels it provided Miss K, I will consider if the level 
of compensation it has paid Miss K adequately compensated her for the inconvenience this 
series of events caused her. 
Both parties have provided comprehensive details of the events and the background to the 
complaint is well known to both parties, so I dont intend to repeat everything thats been 
said or to comment on every point raised  thats not to say I havent considered everything 
here  I have but its just I dont need to comment on every individual point to come to a full 
and impartial decision. Like the investigator I have listened to a number of phone call 
recordings, and it is clear HSBC could have provided a much better service to Miss K when 
she asked about withdrawing cash, accessing online/telephony banking, and wishing to 
make a payment to a family member. 
Without trying to minimise the frustration these interactions with HSBC would have 
undoubtedly caused Miss K here, I am satisfied HSBC have adequately compensated her 
for that. I say this because while HSBC have not provided the service levels this service 
would expect, it has apologised to Miss K, given feedback to those members of staff 
involved and paid a total level of compensation of £300.
While Miss K doesnt think this goes far enough, its worth saying its not my role to penalise 
businesses when service issues like this arise but to ensure it apologises, takes steps to 
prevent future occurrences and pays a proportionate amount of redress  on balance, for the 
reasons I have already given, Im satisfied it did that here. 
While Miss K will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking any more of HSBC.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman