DRN-4207606
The complaint
Mr H complains that Zopa Bank Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr H applied for a loan with Zopa. Zopa approved the application and 
gave Mr H a loan for £2500 with monthly repayments of £127.84.
Mr H complained that Zopa had lent to him irresponsibly.
Zopa didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Mr H.
Mr H remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Zopa had completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks and that the lending decision was fair.
Mr H didnt agree. He said he was self employed at the time he applied for the loan and that 
hed inflated his salary in order to have a better chance of his application being accepted. Mr 
H said that if Zopa had looked at his bank statements it wouldve discovered his true income 
and wouldnt have approved the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaint about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Hs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend. Zopa needed to compete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure that Mr H could sustainably repay what was being lent to him.
Theres no set list of checks that a lender has to complete. But lenders must have regard to 
things like the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly repayment and 
the consumers individual circumstances.
Ive looked at the checks that Zopa carried out before it approved the loan.
Mr H declared monthly income of £3382 in his application. He also declared housing 
expenses of £300. Zopa used a third party tool to verify Mr Hs income.
Zopa also carried out a credit check. This showed that Mr H had a modest level of 
unsecured debt, with no missed payments, no defaults and no CCJs.
Zopa carried out an affordability assessment using the information it had gathered from the 
checks, It took into account Mr Hs existing consumer credit commitments (loans and credit 
cards) with repayments on credit cards based on a  monthly repayment of 5% of the 
balance. Zopa calculated that this gave Mr H monthly disposable income of around £2754.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out by Zopa were reasonable and 
proportionate. Theres nothing in the information gathered which wouldve given Zopa cause 
for concern or which meant that further  checks shouldve been carried out.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair. Theres nothing in the 
information gathered from the checks to suggest that Mr H was struggling to repay his debts 
or that he was overly reliant on credit. Nor was there anything to suggest that Mr H wasnt 
likely to be able to sustainably repay the loan.
Ive taken account of what Mr H has said. I appreciate that he feels that Zopa shouldve 
looked at his bank statements. Theres no obligation on a lender to check bank statements 
before lending, and as Ive said above, Im satisfied that Zopa completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks here. I havent seen anything in the information gathered by Zopa 
which meant that it shouldve completed further checks by looking at bank statements or 
payslips.
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to say that Zopa lent to Mr H irresponsibly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman