DRN-2970415
The complaint
L complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited unfairly settled a claim on his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
Haven was contacted by a third party to say Ls car had reversed into them when they were 
stationary. Because of this, the third party said L was at fault for the accident. Haven 
contacted L about this, and he said he wasnt involved in the incident and all he could think 
of was that his car had been cloned. He also said he had several cars on his policy and this 
one in question had been off the road for the last 2-3 months. 
Haven then disputed the claim with the third party and said it didnt believe L was involved. 
The third party then provided a photo of Ls car which it said was taken at the time when L 
tried to leave the scene. Haven compared this picture with pictures L had provided of his car 
and was satisfied it was the same car. Because of this, Haven settled the claim on a without 
prejudice basis to keep the costs to a minimum. Haven also asked to inspect Ls car but was 
told hed now sold it, so it wasnt possible for an engineer to inspect it. 
L wasnt happy Haven settled the claim against him and complained. Haven reviewed the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the picture provided by the third party showed markings 
on the number plate which matched those in the pictures L provided of his car. So it didnt 
think his car had been cloned and were satisfied it was most likely Ls car. L didnt agree, he 
said his car hadnt been used that day so it couldnt have been his car. He also said the 
pictures hed provided didnt show any damage to his car. As L didnt agree with Haven he 
referred the complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommended it was upheld. She found 
it was fair and reasonable that Haven had said that L had said his car had been off the road 
for 2-3 months, so it wasnt clear how the third party had taken a photo of it. Also, it had 
noted the incident location was around 5 minutes from Ls home, so it was likely his car was 
in the area. She acknowledged that there had been some inconsistencies in the third partys 
version of events but didnt think Haven had acted unfairly in settling the claim for these 
reasons. 
L disagreed, he said there was no damage to his car, and it hadnt been used that day so it 
couldnt have been involved. He also thought as there had been inconsistencies in what the 
third party had said that proved he wasnt involved. 
As L didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Ls policy, like most policies we see, give Haven the right to take 
over the defence or settlement of any claim, as it sees fit. That means it might make a 
decision L disagrees with and not try to recover its outlay or settle a claim from the third 
party or their insurer. But wed look at whether Haven made a reasonable decision in doing 
this based on the evidence it had and the circumstances of the case.
The third party has said Ls car reversed into them while they were stationary and caused 
damage to the rear of their car. They also provided a photo of the rear of Ls car. L has 
disputed that his car was involved in this incident and has provided photos to show there 
was no damage to his car.
Ive considered Ls testimony and that he has strong feelings that its unfair for Haven to 
have settled this claim. However, I dont think Haven has acted unreasonably in doing so. I 
say this because Haven acknowledged Ls side of the story and tried to dispute the claim 
with the third party. Its also tried to inspect Ls car to confirm whether it was involved in an 
incident or not, but unfortunately this wasnt possible. The third party has a picture of Ls car, 
when hed said he hadnt used the car for 2-3 months, and the incident was close to Ls 
home. So, Haven didnt think this would be a claim it would win if it went to court, so it settled 
it on a without prejudice basis. Given the circumstances Im satisfied it was fair and 
reasonable for Haven to do so. 
In response to L saying the third party has been inconsistent with how the accident 
happened, Im not persuaded that means Haven was wrong to settle it for the reasons given. 
Also, before settling the claim Haven were provided with an engineers report showing the 
damage. So, while some of the details may have got muddled up during the course of the 
claim, Im not persuaded thats enough to say Haven acted unreasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman