DRN-1082668
The complaint
Mrs B is the personal representative of the late Mr Bs estate. Mrs B and her daughter, 
whom Ill refer to as Ms T, complain about Capita Employee Benefits (Consulting) Limited) 
(Capita). Theyre concerned Mr Bs annuity was mis-sold. 
What happened
For simplicity Ill primarily refer to Ms T, however my references to Ms T should be 
understood to include Mrs B, with whom she brings this complaint. 
Mr B had an Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) plan with his former employer.
On 18 December 2012 the Trustees of Mr Bs OPS plan wrote to him. In summary they said:
as Mr B was due to reach his plans Normal retirement Date on 16 April 2014, the 
purpose of its letter was to provide information regarding his retirement choices
Mr Bs pension funds had to be used to purchase a Guaranteed Minimum Pension 
(GMP)
the Trustees would use Capita (the Capita Annuity Service) to obtain quotations for 
Mr B. But as an alternative to using the Capita Annuity Service, Mr B could choose to 
shop around for the best annuity rates and an annuity which best suited his personal 
circumstances
the Trustees and Capita couldn'tt advise Mr B on the type of annuity which best met 
his personal circumstances. For this, Mr B would need to consider taking 
independent financial advice
 
A company was engaged by the Trustees of Mr Bs OPS to arrange Mr Bs annuity. Ill refer 
to this company as Company HH. Company HH formed part of the Capita Annuity Service.
Company HH issued a Lifetime Annuity Personal Example to Mr B on 15 May 2013. This 
outlined the annuity Mr Bs pension fund could secure with a pension provider Ill refer to as 
Company C. A Key Features document was also provided. 
On 23 May 2013 Mr B completed and signed Company Cs annuity application form to 
purchase an annuity using his OPS pension fund. The form was later submitted to Company 
C by Company HH.
Company C wrote to Mr B on 7 June 2013 confirming annuities had been set up for him. It 
enclosed Mr Bs annuity Policy Schedule for the GMP element of his fund (under reference 
ending 931). And this confirmed Mr Bs annuity had a five-year guarantee period and 
provided a spouses annuity at the date of his death. 
Company C also wrote to Mr B again on the same day confirming his second annuity, 
comprising of his pension funds which exceeded those needed to meet the GMP, had been 
set up (under reference ending 934). Again, this annuity also came with a five-year 
guarantee period.Company C invited Mr B to contact it immediately if he had any questions about his 
annuities. 
On 6 August 2018 Mr B sadly passed away. Following this, although separated, Mr Bs wife 
at the time of his death, Mrs B, received a spouses pension from Mr Bs annuity.
Ms T later contacted Capita to raise concerns about her late fathers annuity. In summary, 
she said:
she thought Mr B had been provided with unsuitable advice in 2013
her and her brother should be receiving benefits from Mr Bs pension since he 
passed away. This was in addition to the spouses annuity Mrs B was receiving
a Capita employee appeared to have completed parts of Mr Bs annuity application 
form
 
Capita responded to Ms T and in summary said:
the annuity Mr B purchased was made up of a GMP element and automatically 
provided a spouses pension
Ms T and her brother had been nominated to receive any additional payments due 
during the five-year guarantee period of Mr Bs annuity. But as Mr B didnt pass away 
during this period there was nothing payable 
 
Ms T disagreed and said that from looking at the annuity form it was clear Mr B hadnt known 
how to fill it out. She also expressed dissatisfaction Mr Bs pension fund hadnt been paid out 
after he passed away. 
Capita responded and explained that Mr Bs choice at the time he took an annuity would only 
have been in respect of choosing a five-year guarantee period or not. It said Mr Bs type of 
annuity had to reflect what wouldve been payable as a GMP and had to provide for a 
spouses pension. Capita confirmed it was never possible for Mr B to leave an annuity to his 
children.
Further correspondence was exchanged, and Capita issued its final response on the matter. 
It didnt uphold the complaint. In summary Capita said:
it didnt offer any advice to Mr B. It was the administrator of Mr Bs pension scheme 
at the time he purchased his annuity
although a financial adviser was appointed this was for the pension scheme. And 
clear parameters were set for annuity quotes to be obtained- in line with the scheme 
rules
by law Mr Bs fund had to be used to meet the GMP accrued by him. The GMP 
automatically provided a spouses pension which was purchased from the GMP
the only option Mr B had was whether he chose a five-year guarantee period or not. 
This meant that if he died before receiving annuity payments for five years, any 
outstanding payments would be payable- these were the payments Mr B nominated 
Ms T and her brother to receive. But as Mr B lived beyond the guarantee period, 
there was nothing payable 
regarding Mr Bs application form which was partly completed by a Capita employee, 
it didnt think there was anything untoward about this. Mr B had filled in the only parts 
of the form which required a decision and it was assumed Capita was simply helping 
Mr D complete the rest of the formscheme rules and overriding legislation determined the type of annuity Mr B was able 
to take out
 
Unhappy with Capitas response, Ms T referred the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the matter and didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary, she said:
no advice was provided to Mr B by Capita so she didnt agree it mis-sold Mr Bs 
annuity
Capita received Mr Bs annuity application form and his annuity was set up 
accordingly
the application form Mr B completed showed he nominated his two children as 
beneficiaries. But this was for the five-year guarantee period. As Mr B lived beyond 
this period expired, no death benefits were payable when he passed away 
the type of pension Mr B had meant a spouse pension had to be included. There was 
never the option for Mr B to leave the spouse pension to his children
 
Ms T responded and disagreed with our investigator. She said it wasnt fair that Mrs B was 
only receiving a spouses pension which was only half the amount Mr B was receiving when 
he was alive. Miss T also said it wasnt right that money Mr B had worked hard for was being 
held back. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why, but before I do, I 
should emphasise that while Ive taken serious note of the correspondence, arguments and 
comments made by both parties, I have limited my response to what I consider to be the 
issue central to this complaint. That is to say:
whether Capita mis-sold Mr Bs annuity
 
I should firstly say I have real sympathy for Ms T and Mrs B. Its clear to me this will have 
been a difficult time. Not only as a result of Mr B- Mrs Bs late husband and Ms Ts father, 
very sadly passing away. But also, from the time and energy that has been put into trying to 
make sense of Mr Bs annuity policy as well as efforts to establish the basis of any further 
entitlement under this.
I understand Ms T his genuine concerns Capita gave Mr B unsuitable advice when he took 
out his annuity and that her and her brother arent receiving what they should be under the 
annuity following Mr Bs death. But having carefully reviewed the matter I havent seen 
anything which persuades me that Capita has made any error in the way Ms T suggests.
Capitas role and whether any advice was provided 
Having reviewed all the available documentation, Im satisfied Capita didnt provide Mr B 
with any financial advice regarding the purchase of his annuity. The letter the OPS Trustees sent to Mr B on 18 December 2012 explained that the Trustees 
were using the Capita Annuity Service to obtain annuity quotations for members of its OPS. 
The letter went on to say:
As an alternative to using the Capita Annuity Service provided by the Trustees () you 
have the right to shop around for the best annuity rates and you can choose an annuity 
which best suits your personal circumstances.
So instead of using the Capita Annuity Service, Mr B had the option to seek independent 
financial advice regarding the purchase of his annuity. The evidence shows however that Mr 
B chose not to do this and instead went ahead with using the Capita Annuity Service and 
without any financial advice.
I think it was made clear to Mr B at the outset what Capitas role was. And that it wasnt 
providing him with financial advice. Indeed, the Trustees letter went on to specifically say:
Please note the Trustees () or Capita () cannot advise you on the type of annuity 
product which meets your personal circumstances () we would suggest you consider 
taking independent financial advice where appropriate.
I think Mr B would have known from this that Capita wasnt acting as his advisor. 
Im also mindful that Mr Bs annuity documentation confirmed no commission was ever 
received by the Capita Annuity Service (or Company HH) in respect of the arrangement of 
Mr Bs annuity. This again supports the fact that no advice was provided to Mr B. Company 
HHs letter to Company C regarding the setup of Mr Bs annuity said:
I can confirm () that no financial advice was given () Please process this application 
accordingly, on a nil commission basis ()
And the Lifetime Annuity Personal Example said:
For arranging the policy [Company C] will not be paying commission or deducting a charge.
Had any advice been provided to Mr B by the Capita Annuity service I would expect to see 
evidence of this. In particular, any evidence of fees, charges or commission Capita received 
for such advice. No such evidence exists. Indeed, Capita doesnt provide financial advice 
and moreover it was only acting in an administrative capacity at the time Mr B purchased his 
annuity.
In the absence of anything showing advice was provided by Capita, Im unable to find it mis-
sold Mr Bs annuity. And so, it follows that I dont consider Capita has done anything wrong 
in the way Ms T suggests. 
Mr Bs annuity application form
Ms T has expressed genuine concern about Mr Bs 2013 annuity application form. She says 
Mr B didnt know what he was filling out at the time and that it was one of Capitas 
employees who filled out most of the form.
I can appreciate Ms T concern here. But having carefully reviewed the form Im satisfied 
theres nothing to indicate Capita did anything inappropriate or unusual here. Or that it 
played any role in how Mr B chose to take benefits from his plan. From what I can see, the parts of Mr Bs form completed by the Capita employee, either 
needed to be filled in by Capita or needed to include details of Mr Bs OPS. Given that 
Capita were the administrators of Mr Bs OPS at the time I dont think it was incorrect for it to 
fill in the parts of the form it did.
In Section C of Mr Bs application form, Company C asked for the source of Mr Bs pension 
fund to be provided along with scheme contact details and Mr Bs fund value. It seems to me 
Capita was simply trying to be helpful in completing this part of Mr Bs form for him. Theres 
nothing in the information Capita provided which altered in any way the manner in which Mr 
B had chosen to take benefits. 
Section G of the application form was also completed by Capita. This was a requirement and 
the form specifically said:
Declaration by Trustees/Scheme Administrator. To be completed by the administrator of the 
originating pension scheme ()
The parts of the application form Mr B filled in and signed (sections A, B and F) were the 
most crucial parts of the form, i.e. instructions as to where Mr Bs annuity should be paid and 
who should benefit from any pension payments due if he passed away during the five-year 
guarantee period. 
I understand Ms T feels strongly Capita completing parts of Mr Bs application form suggests 
something untoward happened in 2013 regarding the purchase of Mr Bs annuity. But for the 
reasons Ive already explained, theres nothing to indicate this was the case.
Based on the available evidence I dont find Capita did anything wrong regarding Ms Ts 
concerns about it completing parts of Mr Bs annuity form. And because of this Im unable to 
uphold this aspect of her complaint.
Benefits available under Mr Bs annuity in the event of his death
I should first be clear that Capita had no discretion or authority regarding the benefits Mr B 
secured from his OPS plan and his subsequent annuity purchase. As Ive already explained, 
in 2013 Capita was merely the administrator of Mr Bs OPS. And any benefits Mr B received 
from his OPS plan (and later his annuity) were subject to the Scheme rules and overriding 
applicable legislation. Capita had no say in this.
I dont propose to go into the detail of how Mr Bs OPS plan and annuity worked or the 
nature of the benefits arising from them. This has already been addressed by Capita, 
Company C and our investigator in correspondence with Ms T. I do however think its worth 
repeating that as Mr Bs OPS plan included benefits from contracting out of the State 
Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS), a GMP had to be provided. Because of this 
there were restrictions to the way these benefits could be taken. Indeed, as the Trustees 
letter to Mr B said:
These funds must be used to purchase your [GMP] () The Trustees have a duty to ensure 
that any alternative benefits meet any statutory minimum requirements with regard to the 
provision of [GMP] ()
A GMP automatically provides for a spouses pension and so the annuity Mr B purchased 
with Company C had to include this. As Mr Bs relevant policy schedule confirmed, 50% of 
his GMP would be payable to his spouse or civil partner at the date of his death. There was 
never any provision for GMP benefits to be paid to anyone other than a spouse or civil 
partner. So, Mr B couldnt elect for his daughter or son to receive this when he passed away. Mr B was able to nominate beneficiaries of the five-year guarantee period applicable to his 
annuity. And as part of this he chose his children. However, as has already been explained, 
Ms T and her brother would only benefit if Mr B passed away within the guarantee period. As 
he didnt, no payments were due to Ms T or her brother after Mr B died. 
Id like to assure Ms T Ive thought carefully about everything shes said. I understand she 
may be disappointed with my decision but Im unable to find Capita responsible for the fact 
Ms T and her brother didnt benefit under Mr Bs annuity in the way they believed they would. 
I dont doubt Ms Ts sincerity or strength of feeling in bringing this complaint, but I dont think 
there are enough grounds here for me to reasonably conclude Capita has done anything 
wrong regarding the issues she has raised. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2020.
Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman