DRN-3585641
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank wouldnt allow him 
to change his mortgage term so he could add his partner when he was moving home. This 
meant he had to take a new mortgage with a different lender to complete the purchase, and 
he incurred an early repayment charge (ERC) on his Danske mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision in December 2022, the findings of which said:
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Where the available evidence is incomplete, contradictory or missing, our rules require me 
to reach my conclusions on the basis of what I consider is most likely to have happened on 
the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases. I 
set out my findings in this provisional decision, in order that both parties have the 
opportunity to comment before I finalise my decision.
The starting point here is that under the term of Mr Cs 2018 mortgage he had no 
contractual right to port his mortgage You do not have the right to transfer this loan to 
another lender or property. However please see section 10 which may apply should you 
move home. 
Section 10 said that if Mr C moved home he may be able to retain the terms and conditions 
for the loan product provided he met Danskes lending, affordability and eligibility criteria. 
Ive seen a copy of Danskes criteria and that states the term cant be altered when a 
product is being ported. That means that Mr Cs request didnt meet Danskes criteria and 
therefore section 10 isnt applicable and the loan product couldnt be ported.
The terms and conditions for the mortgage state that the term of the loan could be varied 
for one of the following three reasons (none of which were the case here):
If You can repay the Loan early as set out in the Offer under the heading "Early 
Repayment":
If You decide to make overpayments - where You have a right to do so. This will be 
set out in the Offer under the heading "Flexible Features:"
If You make Your Payment Instalments before the Instalment Date then it will cost 
You less and may mean that You repay the Loan before the end of the term which 
was agreed:
The only one that could be applicable is the first, but if Mr C had varied the mortgage term 
under that option then he would have incurred the full ERC.
Having considered everything Im satisfied that Danske followed its standard procedure 
when it said it couldnt alter the mortgage term as part of an application to port Mr Cs 
mortgage.
It may be Mr C would say that he wouldnt have taken this product if he had known about 
this restriction, but he said on our complaint form that he met his partner after he took this 
mortgage out so it seems unlikely the term issue would have been a significant factor in his 
mind, such that he wouldnt have taken out the mortgage in 2018 had he known.
However, even if that was the case, the 2018 mortgage advice was given by an 
independent mortgage broker and so the responsibility for ensuring the product was 
suitable and that Mr C understood it, sat with his broker, not with Danske. So I cant hold 
Danske liable for any concerns about the original suitability of the mortgage product.
Having considered everything, Im not minded to uphold this complaint for the reasons I 
have given.
Danske confirmed it had nothing further to add, and Mr C didnt respond, despite a reminder 
and an extension to the deadline.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having considered the whole file afresh, I see no reason to depart from 
the findings in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman