DRN-3268257
The complaint
Mr C complains that Citibank Europe plc (Citibank) failed to refund money he lost as part of 
a scam.
What happened
Mr C fell victim to a scam on 4 June 2019, when he thought he was transferring money to 
HMRC. He lost £14,089.32 in total, through two separate transfers of £4,589.32 and £9,500 
to two separate payees. 
Mr C says he was contacted by the fraudster who purported to be from HMRC. He says he 
was told that he had an unpaid tax bill of £4,589.32 that he would have to pay or otherwise 
he could face a prison sentence. Mr C made the payment through online transfer and was 
subsequently told that he would need to deposit a further £9,500 to another officer, which he 
was told would be returned once he had submitted certain paperwork to HMRC. 
When the £9,500 payment wasnt received, Mr C says the fraudster told him that he would 
have to call his bank. He called Citibank, who confirmed that the payment had already been 
processed but would take a few hours to clear. However, the fraudster (who remained on the 
phone) said the payment had not gone through and that he would need to call back later to 
process the payment again. During this time. Mr C called a tax advice line, who advised him 
that he had been scammed and should speak to his bank as soon as possible to stop the 
payment. 
Mr C complained that Citibank should have prevented the payment, and also does not think 
they acted promptly enough to recover the funds when he reported the scam, because at 
that point the funds had not cleared or left Citibank. He said the bank just told him that they 
would pass it along to their fraud team, but that it could take 20-45 days to resolve. Citibank 
eventually contacted him on 4 July 2019 saying they could not assist further as the funds 
had been removed from the beneficiary account. 
Citibank said it would not refund the money Mr C had lost. They did not consider the 
payments to be suspicious or unusual for him, as he had made similar large payments in the 
past.
They also said it was not reasonable for someone to think they would have to pay individual 
caseworkers using an N26 bank account if it was a genuine tax payment to HMRC. Citibank 
also said that when it spoke to Mr C about the payment over the phone on 4 June 2019, he 
said it was for a friend, so they had no reason to suspect it was a fraudulent payment. They 
also said that the payments had in fact cleared the account by the time Mr C called, as was 
confirmed to him over the phone. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought that the payment to the fraudsters 
amounted to unusual activity on Mr Cs account such that they ought to have intervened and 
prevented them. Had they have done so, the investigator considered that it wouldve likely 
prevented the scam from unfolding, so he said that Citibank should refund the payments to 
Mr C. Citibank disagreed, so the matter was escalated to me to determine. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2021. I said I intended 
upholding it in part and set out the following reasons:
It is common ground that Mr C authorised both payments amounting to £14,089.32 
on 4 June 2019. And I accept that this was an authorised payment even though 
Mr C was the victim of a sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to 
request the payment online. So, although he did not intend the money to go to the 
scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and 
conditions of his account, Mr C is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. I 
consider that Citibank should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have 
taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a 
payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
There is no question here that Mr C has lost the money he transferred. But the 
question I must consider here is the extent to which Citibank can be considered liable 
for his loss. I also need to determine whether the bank did all that they ought to have 
done when Mr C reported that he had been defrauded. In this particular case Im not 
persuaded that Citibank should refund Mr C the amount he lost.
Ive considered whether Citibank should have done more to identify Mr Cs payments 
of £4,589.32 and £9,500 as potentially being fraudulent and prevented him from 
making them, because there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For 
example, if it was particularly out of character for him.
To determine this, Ive looked at the statement for Mr Cs accounts covering the 
period June 2019 to December 2018 to get an idea of his general account usage at 
the time. Including any history he had of making higher-value payments. Citibank 
have looked beyond June 2019 (i.e. after the scam took place), which I dont think is 
reasonable when assessing whether the scam payments were in keeping with the 
account history and general usage (i.e. prior to 4 June 2019). 
Having considered Mr Cs statements, I can see that he had made regular large 
payments out of his Citibank account leading up to the scam, which ranged from 
£5,000 to £25,000. In March 2019, for example, there were two £5,000 payments 
made, and then two further payments of £25,000 in April 2019 to the same payee 
within a day of each other, all of which were faster payments. I appreciate that these 
payments were made to the same payee, but it demonstrates that it wasnt unusual for large payments to regularly be made from Mr Cs account. Therefore, I dont 
consider that two payments of £4,589.32 and £9,500 would have stood out as 
unusual amounts, such that they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or 
indicating that he might have been at risk of falling for a scam. Indeed, these 
payments are significantly lower than some of the transactions he had been making 
in the months prior to the scam.
I appreciate that Mr C made these payments to two new payees. But I dont consider 
this in itself to be enough to have made them appear suspicious, as it wasnt a clear 
deviation from how the account is usually run. There were also no other apparent 
red flags present (such as them being international payments, for example). I 
acknowledge that Mr Cs balance was reduced to around £140 after the two 
payments were made. But looking back through his statements, this doesnt appear 
to be out of the ordinary, as there are also other instances where large (legitimate) 
payments have been made that reduced his balance even lower than £140. 
In my judgment, I dont consider that the circumstances of the two payments made 
on 4 June 2019 ought to have prompted Citibank to question whether Mr C might 
have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. The payment wasnt so different or the 
circumstances so unusual that the bank ought to have contacted him to make 
enquiries about the payment before they processed it. A banks duty to protect their 
customer from harm is not unlimited; they do not have to act like the police or cross-
examine a client like a lawyer in court for every payment made to a new payee. The 
starting position under the 2017 Regulations is that the bank should execute the 
payers authorised payment mandate  and could even be held liable for losses 
incurred as a result of a failure to do so without undue delay. 
So, I dont think Citibank failed in their obligations when they didnt treat the two 
payments as suspicious and processed them without further checks. I acknowledge 
that Mr C did get in contact with Citibank on the day he made the payments. But by 
the time he called them, the second payment had already been processed. So even 
if the bank could have used this as an opportunity to ask him further questions about 
the payments he was making, it wouldnt have made any difference as the money 
had already left the account. I understand that Mr C disagrees with this, as the 
money had not been credited to the fraudsters account when he was on the phone. 
But as explained by Citibank, the payment is not always instantaneous. However, it 
had at least been processed from Citibanks side, such that there was no further 
action they could have taken to stop the payment other than recalling the funds from 
the beneficiary bank.
With regards to Citibanks attempts to recover the funds, Ive considered whether 
they did everything they ought to have done when Mr C reported the payment as 
fraudulent. Mr C reported the fraud on 4 June 2019 - the same day he made the 
payments. However, Citibank didnt get in contact with the receiving bank (N26 Bank) 
until 7 June 2019  some three days later. 
Citibank has acknowledged that they could have reached out to the beneficiary bank 
sooner. So, they tried to clarify with N26 the precise point the funds were moved from 
the account in order to determine whether this would have made any difference. 
However, N26 refused to provide Citibank with this information. 
There are some instances where a sending bank could be held liable for a payment if 
it delayed contacting the beneficiary bank. For example, there are voluntary best 
practice standards (BPS) in place between certain payment service providers that set 
out how they must work together to try and recover a consumers losses. However, N26 is a Berlin based bank and is not signed up to the BSP. So although quicker 
action on Citibanks part could have potentially resulted in the funds being recovered, 
I cant say this wouldve been more likely than not, as there was no obligation on N26 
to respond as quickly, or to have 24/7 fraud reporting capabilities for other banks. 
Indeed, the receiving bank was also not co-operative when Citibank asked for further 
information about when the funds were moved. So Im not persuaded it would be fair 
and reasonable to hold Citibank liable for Mr Cs loss in these circumstances for 
failing to contact N26 sooner. 
However, I do acknowledge that there was a loss of opportunity here on Citibanks 
part, and that their failure to contact N26 until three days after the fraud was reported 
does, at the very least, constitute poor service. Therefore, in recognition of the poor 
handling of Mr Cs fraud claim in this respect, I intend to award him £250 to 
compensate the distress and inconvenience caused by this. But despite my natural 
empathy with Mr C for having been the innocent victim of a cruel and sophisticated 
scam, I dont intend asking Citibank to reimburse the payments he has made, for the 
reasons Ive set out above. 
I invited further responses from both parties. Citibank did not respond with any further 
comments, but Mr C disagreed and put forward further submissions for consideration. In 
summary, he maintains that the payments were out of character when compared to his usual 
account activity, and he also provided further details about how the scam unfolded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has put forwards several further submissions, and Id like to assure him that Ive read 
and considered everything he sent in. But I dont intend to respond in similar detail. My 
provisional decision sets out in full my reasons for upholding the complaint and those 
reasons still remain. So, If I dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt 
because I havent seen it or thought about it. Instead, its just that I dont feel the need to 
reference it in order to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy  its just a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service.
First, Ive taken into account what Mr C has said with regards to why he was duped into 
making the payments. And I have no doubt that he was unaware he was being scammed at 
the time and had been manipulated and pressurised into making the payments by the 
fraudsters. But I have to consider whether, in the circumstances, Citibank failed in their 
obligations to protect him from financial harm, which Im still not persuaded they have. 
I understand that the previous large payments (such as those for £25,000, for example) 
made from Mr Cs account were sent to existing payees. But the fact still remains that he 
had a history of making large payments from his account, which meant that the bank couldnt 
reasonably be expected to identify the £4,589.32 and £9,500 payments as being unusual in 
these circumstances. In my judgment, when considering Mr Cs transaction history, the 
payments he made to the fraudster didnt represent a significant deviation from his usual 
account activity when looked at in the context of the other payments he had already made. I 
appreciate they were made to two new payees. But as I set out in my provisional decision, I 
dont think this is enough in and of itself to have triggered the payments as being suspicious. 
A considerable number of payments are made to new payees every day, so it would cause 
significant disruption if a bank were expected to block each payment and verify if it was 
legitimate before allowing it to go through, unless there were other factors present that would indicate the customer was at risk of financial harm, which I do not consider there to have 
been in this instance. I appreciate that N26 is an international bank, as Mr C has pointed out. 
But these were not international payments; they were sent to UK accounts as is shown on 
his statements. 
Therefore, while I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, the conclusions 
reached in my provisional decision remain in that I do not think the payments were unusual 
enough for Citibank to have been obliged to intervene in order to prevent them. However, Im 
still of the opinion that Citibank could have provided better service after Mr C reported the 
fraud, so I will still be awarding £250 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Citibank Europe plc to 
pay Mr C £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman