DRN-3383126
The complaint
Ms H complains that NewDay Ltd didnt provide a refund when goods that she paid for using 
her NewDay credit card went missing after delivery.
What happened
In September 2021 Ms H made an online purchase via a third party that cost about £34. A 
courier left the goods on her doorstep but Ms H didnt hear a knock and, by the time she 
realised the goods were delivered, theyd been stolen. The courier says parcels will be 
photographed in an open doorway as proof of delivery - but the photo supplied shows her 
parcel by a closed door. 
Ms H considers the courier breached its own delivery policy and she didnt receive her goods 
as a result. She got in touch with NewDay and a chargeback was raised but this was 
unsuccessful. Ms H thinks its unfair that she has to pay for goods she didnt receive and she 
complained to NewDay about this and poor customer service. 
NewDay wrote to Ms H on 4 November 2021. In summary, it said the chargeback failed 
because the seller was able to show the goods had been delivered and Ms H remained 
liable for the payment. NewDay accepted Ms H might have been let down in terms of its 
customer service. It credited her account with £15, by way of apology and told Ms H she 
could refer the matter to our service. 
One of our investigators looked at the evidence. She wasnt persuaded that NewDay should 
have done more to pursue the chargeback. And she didnt think section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 applied because the price of the goods was below the lower limit required by 
this section. She was satisfied that NewDay dealt with Ms Hs complaint fairly overall and 
she didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Ms H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H brings her complaint about NewDay to our service because she bought these goods 
using her NewDay credit card. And I should make it clear at the outset that Im looking at 
NewDays obligations arising out of that credit agreement here. Its not within my remit to 
look into things done  or not done  by third parties, such as the courier. 
Chargeback
Ms H contacted NewDay because the goods she ordered and paid for went missing and she 
wanted her money back. The chargeback process allows a customer to ask for a transaction 
to be reversed if theres an issue with goods or services they paid for using a credit or debit 
card. But, the success or failure of a chargeback is decided under the relevant card scheme 
rules  thats Mastercard in this case. Theres no automatic right to a chargeback. 
We generally think a financial business should attempt a chargeback if theres a reasonable 
chance of success. Its for the financial business to decide if a chargeback is likely to 
succeed however - albeit we would expect the business to make that assessment on a 
reasonable basis. 
Im satisfied that NewDay did raise a chargeback in relation to the relevant transaction here - 
but the seller was able to challenge this successfully under the scheme rules. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that NewDay didnt deal with the chargeback properly. Ive got no reason 
to think that a chargeback is likely to have succeeded if it had been presented again. And I 
cant fairly find NewDay did something wrong in this respect.  
Section 75
Im obliged to take relevant law into account when I make my decision and Ive thought 
about section 75 when deciding if NewDay provided a fair and reasonable response to Ms 
Hs complaint. I want to make it clear however that Im not deciding liability under section 75 
here - only a court can do that. 
Broadly speaking, section 75 says a borrower may be able to bring an equal claim under an 
agreement with a supplier against a credit provider where theres been a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation. As the investigator explained, section 75 has strict financial limits and 
it only applies where the price of goods and/or services was more than £100. The goods Ms 
H bought here cost less than that. And I cant fairly find it was unreasonable that NewDay 
didnt provide a refund under section 75.   
I can see that Ms H has strong feelings about what happened. I understand her frustration 
and I realise this decision is likely to come as a disappointment. But, for the reasons Ive set 
out above, Im satisfied that NewDay did what wed expect in this situation. Like the 
investigator, Im not persuaded that NewDay has acted unreasonably or treated Ms H 
unfairly. And Im unable to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman