DRN-3947589
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to protect him from losing 
money to two investment scams.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, Mr S has explained that in 2016 to 2018 he made two sets of 
payments from his Nationwide account. The first set was to a company Ill call G, for what 
Mr S understood was an investment in a film production. The second set was to a company 
Ill call A, for what Mr S understood was a commodities-based investment.
Mr S subsequently got in touch with Nationwide to report hed been scammed. Nationwide 
didnt reimburse his lost funds. Remaining unhappy, Mr S referred his complaint about 
Nationwide to us, the Financial Ombudsman Service. As our investigator was unable to 
resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
We emailed Mr S and Nationwide to let them know my intended conclusions before I 
finalised them, to give them a chance to comment before I finally decided what the outcome 
should be. Now that Mr S and Nationwide have had sufficient opportunity to comment on my 
provisional thoughts, Im now ready to explain my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint, for materially the same reasons 
as previously explained. Ill explain why again, addressing the payments to G first, followed 
by the payments to A.
G
Payment service providers like Nationwide have various and long-standing obligations to be 
alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. These are predicated 
on there having been a fraud or scam. So, a first consideration in determining Nationwides 
obligations here would normally be: was G operating a scam as Mr S alleges? 
Here though, I dont think the answer to this question makes a difference to the fair outcome 
to this complaint. This is because if G was not operating a scam, Nationwide had no 
obligation to prevent Mr Ss payments to G, and so I couldnt reasonably hold it responsible 
for not preventing the payments. On the other hand, if G was operating a scam:
Im satisfied Mr S authorised the relevant payments. Nationwide would generally be 
expected to process payments a customer authorises it to make. And under The 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, Mr S is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in circumstances where he 
authorised the payments. That said, as a matter of good industry practice Nationwide 
should have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  
particularly sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious transactions  that 
could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there are many payments 
made by customers each day and its not realistic or reasonable to expect 
Nationwide to stop and check every payment instruction. Theres a balance to be 
struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent, and 
minimising disruption to legitimate payments. 
In this case, given Mr Ss previous payment of £21,000 in September 2016 to 
stockbrokers, I would not reasonably expect Nationwide to have thought payments 
one, two and three sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious to warrant 
intervention before processing. Collectively they amounted to a very similar amount 
to the previous payment to stockbrokers. And they were in my view otherwise 
insufficiently remarkable or suspicious for Nationwide to be obliged to intervene. 
Given their size, the subsequent four payments at the end of January 2017 probably 
ought to have warranted intervention from Nationwide before it processed them. In 
these circumstances, I would reasonably expect Nationwide to have paused these 
payments pending enquiries with Mr S; and to have then spoken with him to ask him 
who the payments were for, what they were for, and for the basic surrounding 
context, and to have then proceeded appropriately from there, with the intention to 
disturb or unearth a potential fraud or scam. I think if this had happened, Mr S would 
have explained the payments were an investment with G in a film production. I see 
no reason, on probing from Nationwide, why Mr S wouldnt also have explained what 
hes since said: that the investment was in an IDMB-listed feature film, with 
anticipated profits of up to 20% within 12 to 18 months once the film was completed; 
that he was enticed by the cast of the film and the potential profits; and that hed 
checked the companys credentials online, for example on IDMB and companies 
house.
If G was a scam, I dont think Nationwide could reasonably have known this. I think it 
could only reasonably have been expected to warn Mr S about the risk of fraud and 
scams and the importance of undertaking adequate research and checks before 
making an investment like this. However, Mr S has said hed done his research and 
was happy to proceed. I dont think reasonable intervention from Nationwide is likely 
to have changed this.
If G was operating a scam, therefore, I dont think I could fairly say Nationwide unreasonably 
missed an opportunity to prevent the payments (nor therefore Mr Ss loss) before they were 
sent  because I think its most likely if Nationwide intervened this wouldnt have prevented 
Mr S from proceeding anyway. 
In terms of recovery of the payments after they were sent, I understand Nationwide has been 
in touch with the receiving bank and has been unable to recover the funds. If G was 
operating a scam (which would be the only way Nationwide ought to have been obliged to 
seek recovery of the funds in this way), it seems to be a common occurrence in scams like 
this that the receiving account is drained of the funds promptly on receipt, presumably to limit 
chances of any potential recovery. I dont think it would be unfair to say in a case like this 
where the scam isnt discovered until quite some time after the payments, it would therefore 
tend to be unusual for the funds to remain in the receiving account by then. So I dont find it 
surprising Nationwide was unable to recover the funds. And Im not satisfied it unreasonably 
hindered recovery of the funds, nor therefore that it should be responsible for Mr S being 
unable to recover the funds.  A
I think A most likely was operating a scam. But again, although this time for different 
reasons, I dont think Nationwide unreasonably missed an opportunity to prevent the 
payments. 
This is because the prior activity on Mr Ss Nationwide account would be an important 
consideration in deciding whether the payments were sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic 
for the account, or otherwise suspicious, such that Nationwide ought reasonably to have 
been obliged to have paused them, pending further enquiries with Mr S, before allowing 
them through. And by the time of Mr Ss first payment to A in July 2017, there were many 
recent and regular payments from his account for amounts comparable to or greater than the 
payments he sent to A (including, but by no means limited to, the payments already made to 
G, which as Ive explained, I think Mr S would likely have proceeded with even if Nationwide 
had sought to intervene in them in January 2017). So Im not persuaded, given previous 
account activity, that I could say the payments to A ought to have looked sufficiently unusual, 
uncharacteristic or otherwise suspicious to Nationwide to say it reasonably ought to not have 
allowed them through without first speaking to Mr S. So I dont think I can fairly say 
Nationwide unreasonably missed an opportunity to prevent the payments, nor therefore 
Mr Ss loss, before they were sent.
In terms of potential recovery of these payments after they were sent, Nationwide did not try 
to recover the funds from the receiving bank because it thought the matter between Mr S 
and A was a civil dispute, rather than a scam. Ive said above that I think that A most likely 
was operating a scam. So I dont think this was right: I think when Mr S notified Nationwide 
of his loss, Nationwide ought not to have arrived at the conclusion it was a civil dispute, but 
ought to have, instead, contacted the receiving bank to try to recover Mr Ss lost payments to 
A. However, Im satisfied from information Ive seen that Nationwide would not have been 
able to recover any of these payments from the receiving bank beyond March 2018. 
Mr S has said he notified Nationwide well before 2022, and soon after the payments, that 
hed been scammed. But correspondence Ive seen between Mr S and A indicates even if 
Mr S did contact Nationwide before 2022, this would most likely not have been until around 
August 2018, and certainly not in March 2018 or before. So Im satisfied that when Mr S 
notified Nationwide hed been scammed by A, the funds wouldnt have been recoverable 
from the receiving bank, and therefore I cant say Nationwide unreasonably hindered 
recovery of these funds, nor therefore that it should reasonably be held responsible for the 
loss of these payments.
I note Mr S has referred to an interest-bearing loan he says was used to fund the payments. 
Nationwide has only been able to point us only to a Nationwide loan Mr S took out in 
February 2021 (which postdates the relevant payments). Mr S also hasnt provided any 
further detail on this. In any event, even if Mr S took out a previous loan that he used to fund 
the relevant payments, I dont consider this would change things: for the reasons already 
explained, Im not persuaded Nationwide can reasonably be held responsible for the loss of 
the payments. Nor would I, therefore, think it would be fair to tell Nationwide to compensate 
Mr S for any interest he paid on a loan as a result of the payments. If Mr S has any loans 
with Nationwide that hes unhappy about for different reasons, that would be a matter for him 
to take up separately, in the first instance with Nationwide directly.
I realise this means Mr S is out of pocket. However, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think this is Nationwides fault.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman