DRN-4310723
The complaint
Mr B has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) failed to repair his boiler under 
an insurance policy he believed he had with it, and that a boiler service he had had three 
months previously was inadequate. He had to pay for a new boiler.
What happened
Mr B was offered a policy from BG covering his boiler and controls for £3 a month for 12 
months. He decided to accept this offer. BG wrote to him on 12 January 2023 and confirmed 
that cover was in place.
On 31 January 2023, Mr Bs boiler developed a leak. He had it checked by a third-party 
engineer who advised that the boiler was beyond repair. As he needed a working boiler as a 
matter of urgency, he arranged for a new boiler to be installed at a cost of £2,650. BG 
rejected his claim for the cost of this.
BG says that the new policy never took effect. It says that it contacted Mr B on 20 January 
2023 as there was an issue with setting up his direct debit for the payment of the £3 a month 
payment plan and asked Mr B to contact it. This he did on 24 January 2023, but there was 
still a difficulty in setting up the direct debit and Mr B was told that hed be called back. He 
didnt receive a call back. BG has said that as it didnt secure Mr Bs bank details to initiate 
his monthly payments, his policy was never effective. 
Mr B maintains that BG confirmed that he was covered and therefore there is a binding 
contract in place and that BG is in breach of this in failing to repair or replace his boiler when 
it developed a serious fault.
BG maintains that even if the policy had been in effect, its probable that had its engineer 
attended on 31 January 2023 he wouldve come to the same conclusion as the third-party 
engineer, namely that the boiler was beyond economical repair and that a new boiler was 
needed. It pointed out that the new policy, had it been effective, wouldnt have covered 
replacement of his boiler. 
Mr B says that his boiler had undergone a Gas Appliance Check on 20 October 2023 for 
which he paid £29. BG says that this check didnt reveal any issues at that time and that a 
component failure three months later couldnt have been predicted. Mr B says that this 
service shouldve picked up wear in the boiler and had it done so, his boiler might not have 
needed replacing. He argues that a repair to the boiler mightve been possible, even though 
it may have been uneconomic.
Mr B wasnt happy with BGs rejection of his complaint and brought a complaint to this 
service. He says he wants to be put into the position he wouldve been in had BG not 
breached the contract he says it entered into with him.
Our investigators view was he didnt consider that Mr B had suffered a loss as a result of 
BGs actions. He said that if BG had called Mr B back to sort out the payment issue relating 
to his new policy and this had been in place, he was satisfied that BG wouldve deemed Mr 
Bs boiler beyond economical repair, and Mr B wouldve had to have bought a new one 
regardless of insurance cover being in place.
He therefore couldnt say that BG was liable for the cost of Mr Bs new boiler, and he wasnt 
going to ask BG to pay for it. He also explained that as this service cant consider service 
agreements as these dont fall within the scope of the powers given to this service by the 
Financial Conduct Authority, he couldnt comment on whether or not the Gas Appliance 
Check was conducted adequately.
Mr B doesnt accept out investigators view so his complaint has been referred to me as an 
ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
I should firstly deal with what I cant give an opinion on. As our investigator has rightly said, 
this service doesnt have the power to consider a complaint arising from a contract for 
services such as Mr Bs Gas Appliance Check. In any event, this was not a service provided 
by British Gas Insurance Limited but by a different entity. Im therefore not able to address 
Mr Bs complaint insofar as it relates to an inadequate service visit.
But I can give an opinion on Mr Bs complaint in relation to the insurance contract he 
maintains he had with BG.
Ive looked at the terms of Mr Bs policy, and specifically those relating to Boiler and Controls 
cover, this being the level of cover that Mr B intended to take out with BG in January 2023. 
These terms appear on page 10 of the HomeCare Range Terms and Conditions booklet. 
These state that the policy covers repairs to gas boilers. They also state that the policy 
covers a boiler replacement if a boiler cant be repaired, but replacement is subject to a 
number of conditions. These state that BG will provide the following:
A replacement for your boiler if we can't repair it and:
it's less than seven years old; or
It's between seven and ten years old, we installed it and it's been continuously covered 
by us under either a warranty or HomeCare product; or
it caught fire or exploded, providing you gave us access to carry out your annual 
service within every period of agreement
customers need to contact us if a third party has deemed a replacement is necessary 
before they replace it. We require the opportunity to assess and determine if a repair 
can be made before a replacement or a contribution to a replacement is provided.
I dont believe that any of the above conditions apply in Mr Bs case. Therefore, in my view, 
even if there had been a valid and binding contract of insurance between Mr B and BG, the 
terms of the contract relating to boiler replacement have not been satisfied.
However, Mr B argues that BG could potentially have repaired the boiler even though this 
might have been uneconomical. He points out that the Terms and Conditions say that all 
repairs will be undertaken without any reference to economic viability.BG has said that had one of its engineers attended to investigate the water leak, they 
wouldve been likely to have come to the same diagnosis as Mr Bs third-party engineer, 
namely that the boiler was beyond repair. I consider that to be arguable. But it doesnt fully 
address Mr Bs point that BG shouldve investigated whether a repair was possible.
In my view, the Terms and Conditions of the contract address that point. Ill quote the 
relevant term again:
Customers need to contact us if a third party has deemed a replacement is 
necessary before they replace it. We require the opportunity to assess and 
determine if a repair can be made before a replacement or a contribution to a 
replacement is provided
I consider that to be a reasonable condition, and that BG cant be held liable for the cost of a 
new boiler if it wasnt able to assess whether a repair was possible. 
I therefore conclude that BG hasnt acted unreasonably in rejecting Mr Bs claim that it 
covers the cost of his new boiler with interest. If there was no binding contract between Mr B 
and BG covering his boiler and controls because no payment had been made, then Mr B 
cannot claim a breach of contract.  If there was a binding contract, BG is not in my view 
responsible for the cost of replacing Mr Bs boiler because the conditions for boiler repair 
and replacement contained within the policy were not met.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I cant uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman