DRN-3315751
The complaint
Mrs O complains Richmonde Laine Wealth Management Ltd (RLWM) mishandled the 
transfer of her bond. She also complains RLWM terminated the relationship and she had to 
find another advisor. Additionally, she complains about the level of service shes received 
from RLWM, she says there were no annual review meetings since 2016. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
again here. In summary, Mrs O instructed RLWM in 2009. She held some investments 
outside of their management including a bond. In July 2020, Mrs Os representative 
contacted RLWM as Mrs O wanted to transfer the bond. 
Mrs O became increasingly unhappy with the time it was taking to transfer the bond and her 
representative raised these concerns. RLWM decided to end their relationship with Mrs O 
and asked her to find a new adviser. Following this, Mrs Os representative complained. 
RLWM responded to the complaint, but Mrs O remained unhappy and her representative 
asked us to investigate. Our Investigator felt the firm hadnt done anything substantially 
wrong. Mrs O didnt agree, and her representative set out the reasons for this. Therefore, the 
complaint has passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have had the opportunity to submit evidence and arguments to support their 
position. I want to provide reassurance that whilst I may not directly refer to a specific point 
or piece of evidence, it does not mean I havent considered it. Its simply because I dont 
think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome in this particular case. 
Transferring the bond
On 3 August 2020, Mrs Os representative emailed RLWM and confirmed Mrs O wanted to 
transfer the bond and bring it within their management. She provided further income details 
on 7 August 2020. The representative has said RLWM should have already had income 
information and I understand it was unlikely to change as she had retired, but it wasnt 
unreasonable for RLWM to request up to date information given possible tax implications.
Ive reviewed the letter from RLWM to Mrs O dated 24 August 2020. RLWM described this 
as a high level review and the letter itself confirmed it was an initial review. RLWM 
concluded it would appear beneficial to justify the movement of the fund into Mrs Os Wealth 
Management Account. They confirmed no tax would be due and it would only be due if Mrs 
Os current income and the gain on the bond exceeded the higher tax threshold. 
Having considered the contents of the review, Im satisfied RLWM reasonably sought to 
issue some initial advice and it was provided within a reasonable time frame (within three 
weeks). Mrs O accepted the advice, so RLWM sent out a client agreement letter which was 
returned on 8 September 2020. Ive no concerns about the timescales involved here. 
Nevertheless, I can appreciate it would have been helpful to provide a timescale at this point 
about when Mrs O could expect to receive the feasibility report, but Im not persuaded this 
means RLWMs service was unreasonable. 
An update was provided on 25 September 2020 and RLWM confirmed the feasibility report 
would be issued shortly. I can see it was sent on 6 October 2020. This was within four weeks 
of receiving the client agreement. Ive considered the contents of the report and Im satisfied 
it did provide more detailed advice and research. Overall, Im content the advice was 
provided within a reasonable period of time. 
Mrs O feels strongly about an inaccuracy within the report in which RLWM had 
recommended making a contribution of £20,000 to her ISA for 2020/2021. She had already 
told them she had used her allowance for that tax year. So, I can understand her 
disappointment here and Ive thought carefully about whether it affected the advice overall. 
The bond was valued at around £142,102 at the time and part of the recommendation was to 
reinvest £20,000 into Mrs Os Standard Life ISA. Following this, RLWM recommended 
investing the remaining funds into a Standard Life Personal Portfolio and making annual 
fund switches to Mrs Os ISA. RLWM explained this would make use of Mrs Os annual ISA 
allowance and provide additional tax efficiency. 
So, the fact Mrs O had already utilised her allowance for the tax year 2020/2021 only meant 
they wouldnt be in a position to transfer some of the funds to her ISA until the following tax 
year. Therefore, Im not persuaded the overall advice was impacted.
I also appreciate Mrs O was concerned about possible consequences if she exceeded her 
allowance, but this didnt happen as she pointed it out to RLWM. RLWM also confirmed they 
have checks in place which would have caught this prior to transferring funds. So, there was 
no financial impact or consequence for Mrs O in this regard. 
In response to the view, Mrs Os representative said not all concerns in respect of the report 
had been dealt with by our Investigator. For example, the report referred to discussions 
which she said hadnt happened. Ill come back to the concerns raised about meetings and 
telephone calls below, but Im not persuaded reference to discussions meant the report 
was inaccurate or effected the recommendation within it.
Additionally, RLWM reasonably sought to ensure the report was relevant for Mrs Os 
circumstances. For example, they had requested updated information about her income. 
Also, the objectives referred to bringing Mrs Os investments in line with her attitude to risk 
and tax efficiency. Ive reviewed the report alongside other correspondence, including the 
initial report, six-monthly rebalancing reports, and annual statements, and Im satisfied the 
information recorded is consistent. For these reasons, Im not concerned about the details 
recorded in the feasibility report or that it took an unreasonable amount of time to issue.  
RLWM understood from the bond provider it would take 15 working days to provide the 
documents to transfer the policy and they explained this to Mrs Os representative. The 
representative raised concerns that RLWM should have made enquiries into this sooner. 
And I can appreciate this would have been helpful, but it also wasnt unreasonable service to 
enquire when Mrs O agreed to go forward with the transfer. 
Based on what RLWM understood about the wait times, they suggested Mrs O surrender the 
bond and theyve explained this was to protect the funds from the risks of market volatility should it remain invested. Then the funds could be transferred as cash. Therefore, Im 
content this advice was reasonable in the circumstances.  At the time, it also seemed that 
the transfer could happen more quickly. 
The incorrect value
Mrs O provided instructions on 15 October 2020 and confirmed she would agree to 
transferring the bond to cash provided the value was above £144,000. RLWM confirmed the 
value of the bond when it was surrendered on 15 October 2020 was £144,033. I understand 
Mrs O wanted to secure above £144,000 but RLWM wouldnt have been able to guarantee 
this because the bond was subject to market fluctuations. 
RLWM also set out in their feasibility report that the value of the bond could rise and fall and 
Im satisfied its something Mrs O was aware of. Additionally, Mrs Os representative 
confirmed RLWMs advisor let her know the 5pm cut-off for providing instructions was close 
and that it had passed when the instructions were sent. So, Im content it was clear the 
transfer instructions might not be processed on that same day and the value wasnt 
guaranteed in any event. 
RLWM had taken information from the unit values published by the bond provider on their 
website. The bond provider has confirmed these figures showed the value at the close of the 
previous day as they use a forward pricing method. In this case, the bond provider confirmed 
they processed the request as being received on 15 October 2020 and the correct value was 
£143,088.36.  
I appreciate Mrs O received less than she expected, and she would have been disappointed. 
RLWM seem to have relayed information they had obtained from the website. Also, Mrs O 
understood the value could go up and down. RLWM confirmed 5pm had passed when the 
instructions were sent to the bond provider. So, the value wasnt ever guaranteed, and I 
dont think RLWM caused a financial loss. 
RLWM did query the value with the provider who werent initially going to release the funds 
until it was resolved. I can see RLWM raised the matter promptly and asked for information 
regarding the fund switch. They also chased it frequently over the telephone. The funds 
werent released until November 2020. It does seem the questions raised by RLWM did 
cause the payment to be made later than it would otherwise have been. Mrs Os 
representative also explained they didnt ask RLWM to raise a complaint with the bond 
provider, but there was concern about the fund value. So, Im not persuaded it was 
unreasonable for RLWM to raise concerns in the circumstances.
 
Mrs O feels RLWM are responsible for a loss of £944.95 between what she expected to 
receive and what she did receive when she cashed in the bond. However, for the reasons 
set out above, Im not satisfied RLWM acted unreasonably or that theyre responsible for 
causing Mrs O a financial loss. 
 
Chargeable event certificate
Ive reviewed the feasibility report and I can see under Taxation RLWM confirmed there 
would be no detrimental tax implications when withdrawing the funds from the bond and 
reinvesting the proceeds. They confirmed they had conducted an assessment of the 
chargeable event gain based on income information provided and did not expect a tax 
liability to arise. Im satisfied the information provided here was reasonable. 
I do think RLWM could have discussed this again with Mrs O when it was decided they 
would transfer the bond to cash before moving the funds over. The bond provider was obligated to inform HMRC of the gains which meant a chargeable event certificate was sent 
to Mrs O which she didnt expect. 
Also, Mrs O was unhappy RLWM didnt provide more support with the tax situation when 
they received the certificate. However, I understand RLWM did provide some wording which 
was submitted. So, it does seem RLWM provided some support even though HMRC went on 
to ask Mrs O to fill in a tax return and she instructed an accountant to support her with this.
Whilst I understand Mrs Os comments and that she felt she was exposed to substantial 
fines, I understand no tax obligation arose. RLWM had explained this in their initial report 
and feasibility report, so their advice was reasonable.
 
New advisor
I do appreciate what Mrs O has said about finding a new advisor and I recognise it would 
cause distress after having been with the same firm for a significant period of time. I also 
note there were costs involved. 
RLWM have explained they felt there was a breakdown in trust after they had explained why 
the transfer took as long as it did. This resulted in them asking Mrs O and her representative 
to find a new advisor.
Ive reviewed the correspondence between the parties, and Im satisfied RLWMs decision to 
terminate the relationship was a reasonable one. I can see they acted in line with the terms 
in the Client Agreement. They had also explained why they felt they were fulfilling their 
regulatory obligations in respect of issuing the feasibility report. So, I can see why it would 
be practically difficult to keep managing the account given the concerns which were raised 
about this and Im not persuaded their decision was unreasonable. 
General poor advice/service  
I have already addressed concerns Mrs O raised about RLWMs advice in the feasibility 
report. However, she also said the report referred to discussions which hadnt taken place 
since 2016. She felt she had been paying for a level of service she didnt receive. Mrs O also 
said she didnt receive a brochure alerting her to the differences in the pricing structure. 
Ive reviewed the Client Agreement for Investments document provided by RLWM and can 
see it was signed by Mrs O in June 2011. So, Im satisfied she had sight of this document. I 
can see it set out the various service level agreements. In respect of service level B, it said 
this was for a mix of active and passive investments and RLWM would rebalance on a six-
monthly basis. It also set out the relevant charges. 
RLWM have provided correspondence over the relevant period to demonstrate rebalancing 
advice was provided on a six-monthly basis in line with the service level agreement. 
Additionally, Ive seen they provided market updates during relevant periods (for example, 
during the global pandemic). Mrs O was also regularly offered further assistance in this 
correspondence. So, she had the opportunity to get in touch with RLWM if she felt she didnt 
understand the information provided. 
Mrs O said her account was made up of a low-risk portfolio bond and an ISA so she feels 
she should only have been paying for service level C. However, the reports show me that 
Mrs O had a mix of active and passive investments. Therefore, Im satisfied service level B 
was appropriate here as set out in RLWMs Client Agreement. Mrs Os representative has also said there were some elements of the service, for example 
seminars, which should have been available, but she didnt know until she received the 
brochure in 2020. However, this doesnt persuade me she was on the wrong pricing 
structure or didnt receive a reasonable service based on what Ive seen in respect of her 
type of investments and the correspondence sent by RLWM over the years. 
I appreciate one of the concerns Mrs O explained was around the lack of face-to-face 
meetings. RLWM have said they choose not to hold annual face to face meetings in favour 
of being on hand throughout the year. Mrs O also doesnt feel it was her responsibility to ask 
for meetings. However, if she felt there was a gap in the advice, or she wasnt receiving the 
service she expected then she could have raised it at the time. Ive not been provided with 
any evidence that written correspondence had previously been a cause for concern. So, I 
dont think RLWM have done anything wrong here. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman