DRN-3828679
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as P has complained that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd
(China Taiping) unfairly reduced the amount paid on its business interruption insurance
claim from March 2020 as China Taiping say Ps income would have been impacted in any 
event by Covid-19 and the legislative response of the UK Government in response to the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
Ms F, a director of P, has brought the complaint on Ps behalf.
What happened
P held a restaurant, shops and takeaways insurance policy with China Taiping, providing for 
(amongst other things) contents and business interruption insurance. The period of 
insurance was from 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019. The policy schedule set out that 
for the loss of income cover, the indemnity period was 24 months and the sum insured was 
£400,000.
In early 2019, Ps premises were damaged by a third party carrying out work in the local 
area. P closed its premises in April 2019 for repairs to be carried out. P claimed on its policy 
with China Taiping for the losses it incurred due to its closure. China Taiping accepted the 
claim and made a number of monthly payments to P.
The repairs to Ps premises took some time and in April 2020 it was estimated that the
repairs wouldnt be concluded until July 2020. However, China Taiping said that they
wouldnt continue to make payments from 27 March 2020 as, if it wasnt for the damage
caused by the third party, P would have been closed in any event due to the legislation 
introduced by the UK Government as a result of Covid-19.
P complained to China Taiping in May 2020. It said it had a licence to sell alcohol to be 
consumed away from the premises so could have continued to trade during lockdown. P 
also said that its policy had an indemnity period of 24 months and didnt contain a trends 
clause. Therefore, it said China Taiping wasnt entitled to reduce its settlement as a result of 
any trends in business.
China Taiping said the policy set out the circumstances that trigger cover and the method to
quantify the amount payable. This included a but for approach to causation. China Taiping
said the purpose of the policy is to provide cover only where the loss results from an insured
event. They said the regulations requiring P to close in March 2020 meant there was a
separate intervening cause of Ps loss which wasnt insured. China Taiping said that to
indemnify P without using a but for approach would, in effect, mean the policy guaranteed
indemnity based on the pre-damage forecast, which wasnt the intention of the policy.
China Taiping said that ordinarily, if a loss of income is attributable to a cause which isnt
wholly or partly connected to the insured damage, and that loss would have impacted the
income if the insured damage hadnt occurred, then an adjustment would be made to reflect
as accurately as possible the loss resulting solely from the damage. China Taiping didnt
think it was necessary for the policy to have a trends or other circumstances clause as they
said that would only provide additional clarification on wording that the parties had already
agreed, i.e. that cover was for the shortfall between the income received and that which
would have been received in the circumstances but for the damage. China Taiping added
that this was a fair and reasonable way to settle Ps claim.
Unhappy with China Taipings response, P brought its complaint to our service in June 2020. 
P told us that China Taiping had later accepted that P could have traded as an off licence 
during the first lockdown if it had been open. It had therefore agreed to pay P 20% of its loss 
of its income for that period as this was the amount China Taiping thought P had lost as a 
result of being closed during this time. P said that from July 2020 until the end of the 
indemnity period China Taiping often paid a reduced settlement as they thought P would 
have remained impacted by Covid-19 during this time. P didnt think this was enough. It said 
repairs werent completed until August 2021 and there wasnt anything in the policy which 
allowed China Taiping to reduce the settlement due to Covid-19 or the legislation introduced 
by the UK Government.
Our investigator looked into Ps complaint and recommended it be upheld. He said as Ps
losses had been the result of an insured event and closure by Covid-19 and the UK 
Government regulations werent excluded by the policy, China Taiping should pay Ps loss of 
income without taking account of any trends in the business due to Covid-19 or the 
legislation introduced by the UK Government. He recommended that China Taiping add 
interest to the additional settlement amount at a rate of 8% simple from one month after 
each payment would have been due to the date China Taiping make payment.
P accepted our investigators recommendation, but China Taiping did not. They provided a
detailed response setting out why they didnt think they should pay for Ps full loss of income
during the period it would have been impacted by Covid-19 and the UK Government 
regulations.
In summary, China Taiping have said that:
The loss of income clause in the policy sets out the quantification machinery for 
measuring the loss of income resulting from insured damage. It provides for a but 
for approach to put the policyholder in the same position it would have been in if the 
damage hadnt occurred.
The UK Government regulations were neither concurrent with nor arose out of the 
same underlying cause as the insured damage.
The UK Government regulations were an intervening event which must be taken into 
account when quantifying Ps loss of income. Otherwise, China Taiping would be 
guaranteeing the policyholders income for the duration of the closure in the 24-
month indemnity period and that is not what the policy intended.
The policy was no longer in force in March 2020 as it had lapsed in October 2019.
The policy is written in plain English and it is clear that the policy intended to pay for
            any shortfall between the actual post-incident figures and those that P would
            otherwise have achieved had the insured damage not occurred.
No reasonable person would expect the policy to operate in the way P suggested.
A trends clause isnt necessary for the proper operation of the loss of income
            clause as the existing clause sets out that the commercial purpose of the policy is to
indemnify the policyholder for the income they would have earned had the damage          
not occurred.
The position is analogous to the star chef example given in para 231 of the
Supreme Court judgment in the FCA v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd and others [2021] 
UKSC 1 (the FCA Test Case). The Court gave the example of a restaurant which
had a star chef who was due to leave the restaurant on 1 April 2020 for reasonsunrelated to the pandemic. The Court said in that case it would be unreasonable to
require the insurer to indemnify the policyholder for loss of turnover resulting from the
inability to use the premises due to the Covid-19 restrictions insofar as such turnover
           would have been reduced in any event by reason of the chef's departure.
At para. 236 of the judgment in the FCA Test Case the Supreme Court observed that 
claims for loss of income by their nature give rise to difficult questions of 
quantification, often concerning what would have happened in hypothetical 
circumstances. So, for example, in the case of the restaurant with the star chef, it 
might be very difficult and uncertain to estimate what the effect on turnover of the 
chef leaving would have been if the restaurant had not been required to close on 21 
March 2020 (due to the Covid-19 restrictions). But the Supreme Court said that such 
difficulty of proof is not a sufficient reason to ignore the effects of the chef's 
departure.
At para. 268 of the judgment in the FCA Test Case the Supreme Court held that a 
trends clause incorporating the but for test should be construed by recognising that 
the aim of such a clause is to arrive at the results that would have been achieved but 
for the insured peril and circumstances arising out of the same underlying or 
originating cause.
The pandemic was entirely fortuitous, such as in the case of an outbreak of a
            separate fire after the policy had lapsed. It was not the intention of the policy to cover
            all such later events.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 June 2022 explaining why I intended 
to uphold this complaint. In that I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to uphold Ps
complaint.
P has made a number of detailed points in support of why China Taiping shouldnt reduce its
payments. Im not going to address them all in this decision and will instead focus on what I
consider to be the key reasons for upholding this complaint. The question Ive needed to
consider is whether the wording of Ps policy allows China Taiping to reduce Ps settlement
to take account of losses it might have incurred due to Covid-19 and the Governments
response to the pandemic, as well as what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
I understand that China Taiping have already paid Ps business interruption insurance claim
until March 2020 and only the period from March 2020 remains in dispute. My decision is
therefore in relation to the period in dispute and not any losses prior to March 2020.
The terms and conditions of Ps policy say:
the amount payable as indemnity shall be
(a) the shortfall between the Income received during the Indemnity Period and
the Income which would have been received but for the Damage
(b) the additional expenditure necessarily and reasonably incurred to avoid
such a shortfall but only to the extent of the shortfall thereby avoided
less any sum saved during the Indemnity Period on business expenses or
charges which cease or reduce as a result of the Damage
The policy has an indemnity period of 24 months.
The clause set out above doesnt refer to trends or other circumstances and therefore I
think it is quantification wording rather than a trends clause.Its generally accepted in insurance that if there are two equally effective causes of a
policyholders loss and one is covered by the policy and the other is not, the policy will cover
the loss unless one of the causes is expressly excluded under the policy. In this case, Ps
claim for accidental damage (the insured cause) is covered under the policy. Closure due to
Covid-19 or the Government Regulations (the uninsured cause) isnt something thats
covered by the policy. However, its also not expressly excluded either.
I have considered the points China Taiping have raised, but in my view, the but for test set
out in the relevant clause doesnt mean that the uninsured cause necessarily prevents cover
for the insured cause given the uninsured cause is not excluded.
China Taiping considers the position here to be analogous to the star chef example at para
231 of the Supreme Court judgment. However, at para 232, the judgment goes on to say:
The distinction between the departure of the chef and the consequences of
COVID-19 which would have reduced the turnover of the restaurant in any
event is in our view to be found in other parts of the judgment under appeal.
I think its likely that, what the Court meant by other parts of the judgment, are those parts
of the judgment where trends clauses are considered  as this is the type of situation that
would usually be considered in relation to trends clauses.
Trends clauses are considered at paras 251-288 of the judgment. Paras 260-264 state the
following:
260. First, the trends clauses are part of the machinery contained in the
         policies for quantifying loss. They do not address or seek to delineate the  
scope of the indemnity. That is the function of the insuring clauses in the 
policy.
261. Second, in accordance with the general principle referred to earlier (see
        para 77 above), the trends clauses should, if possible, be construed
        consistently with the insuring clauses in the policy.
262. Third, to construe the trends clauses consistently with the insuring clauses
        means that, if possible, they should be construed so as not to take away the
         cover provided by the insuring clauses. To do so would effectively transform
         quantification machinery into a form of exclusion.
263. A similar point was made by the court below (at para 121 of the judgment)
        when discussing the trends clause in RSA 3, where the court stated that the
clause is:  part of the machinery for calculating the business interruption     
loss on the basis that there is a qualifying insured peril. Where the 
policyholder has therefore prima facie established a loss caused by an 
insured peril, it would seem contrary to principle, unless the policy wording 
so requires, for that loss to be limited by the inclusion of any part of the
insured peril in the assessment of what the position would have been if
the insured peril had not occurred.
264.  In the present case that means that, unless the policy wording otherwise
requires, the trends clauses should not be construed so as to take away 
cover for losses prima facie covered by the insuring clauses on the basis of
concurrent causes of those losses which do not prevent them from being 
covered by the insuring clauses.
I think that the above paragraphs support that the quantification machinery should not be
construed so as to take away cover for losses covered by an insuring clause on the basis of
concurrent causes of those losses, where the uninsured cause is not excluded. To do so
would effectively transform that quantification machinery into an exclusion. I appreciate thatChina Taiping dont think that the wording is intended to act as an exclusion, but I think, in
effect, this is what it would be.
I recognise that the Supreme Court wasnt asked to consider this type of quantification
wording and the Courts comments were in relation to losses caused by the same underlying
cause. Its therefore possible that my decision would be a departure from the law. However,
Im required to reach a decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances. So, even if Im wrong about the legal position, given that Ps policy did not
explicitly exclude cover in the circumstances of Covid-19 and the Governments related
actions, I think it would be unfair for China Taiping to remove cover on the basis of this as an
intervening cause. Therefore, I still believe the fair and reasonable outcome is for China
Taiping to indemnify P for its losses from March 2020 without making any adjustment for the
impact of Covid-19 and the Government Regulations.
P had been closed for around a year before the lockdown occurred and irrespective of
Covid-19, it would have been closed during the period in dispute as the necessary repairs
had not been completed. Therefore, if China Taiping didnt indemnify P for its losses during
this period they would be saving money that they would otherwise have needed to pay. Ive
noted China Taipings point that Ps policy had lapsed but I dont think this is relevant to my
decision. Thats because Ps policy has an indemnity period of 24 months and my decision is
based on it being fair and reasonable for China Taiping to indemnify P for its closure due to
the original damage rather than as a result of Covid-19 and the Government Regulations.
Ive also noted Ps point that it wasnt able to apply for Government support during this time
as it wasnt closed due to Covid-19 or the Government Regulations. I dont think its fair and
reasonable for China Taiping to reduce Ps claim settlement on the basis that it would
have been closed if P wasnt able to apply for support as it wasnt closed due to Covid-19.
To put things right I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for China Taiping to pay Ps
claim from March 2020 without making any adjustments for the impact of Covid-19 or the
Government Regulations. China Taiping can deduct any payment they have already made to
P for it being able to trade as an off-licence during this time.
As P has been without money it should have had China Taiping should also pay interest on
the outstanding amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date they should have paid
the claim to the date China Taiping make payment. China Taiping were paying Ps claim on
a monthly basis and I think this is what it should have continued to do. China Taiping should
therefore have paid Ps claim for the period 27 March to 27 April on 27 May, the claim for 27
April to 27 May on 27 June and so on.
P accepted my provisional decision and said it had nothing substantially to add to my 
findings, although it provided comments in response to China Taipings. I will not set out its 
full reply but have summarised its comments below.
In regard to China Taiping not guaranteeing a 24 month indemnity period, P said this 
is exactly what a small business expects when it takes out insurance  i.e. that if 
something catastrophic happens it will be covered for the full 24 month indemnity 
period if needed. 
If China Taiping had intended the policy to respond as though it had a trends clause 
they could have added one to the policy. 
The policy only lapsed because China Taiping refused to offer a renewal. 
It would not be fair for an insurer to rely on the policy having lapsed in order to end 
the cover, otherwise any indemnity period which lasted longer than the duration of 
the policy would not provide the cover suggested. In response to China Taipings point that no reasonable person would interpret the 
policy to respond in such a way, P said it has interpreted the policy as it is set out in 
the policy and how it would be understood in plain English. 
It agrees with my comments that in order for the Star Chef analogy (as set out in 
para. 231 of the FCA Test case) to apply the policy would require a trends clause, 
which it does not. 
China Taiping might say that the intention of the policy was to not cover later events 
but what is relevant is their intent as set out in the policy wording. 
P believes that my decision is the correct legal position and is consistent with basic 
contract law. 
P let us know that China Taiping made two offers to settle their complaint which were 
less than I had recommended in my provisional decision. P refused these offers. 
China Taiping didnt agree with my provisional decision and provided a response. Again, Im 
not going to repeat the entire response, but will summarise it below. 
My provisional decision correctly identified that the correct question to be answered 
is whether the wording of Ps policy allows China Taiping to reduce Ps settlement to 
take account of losses it might have incurred due to Covid-19 and the UK 
Governments response to the pandemic.
Error of law
I had made an error of law which means Id failed to assess the information and 
evidence on a correctly informed basis. 
The closure of Ps business due to Covid-19 and the UK Governments response to 
the pandemic was not an originating or concurrent cause of the loss as it happened 
consecutively or subsequently. 
Where I have referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the FCA Test Case (paras. 
260  264) I have done so in relation to concurrent causes. This is an error as Covid-
19 and the UK Government restrictions werent a concurrent cause of the loss. 
Correct test for causation is but for
China Taiping agrees that the clause is quantification wording rather than a trends or 
circumstances clause. 
The Supreme Court (para. 266) said that the interpretation of a trends clause 
expressly calls for the application of the but for test (as per the but for wording in its 
Loss of Income clause). 
The Supreme Court concluded that 287. For the reasons given, we consider that the 
trends clauses in issue on these appeals should be construed so that the standard 
turnover or gross profit derived from previous trading is adjusted only to reflect 
circumstances which are unconnected with the insured peril and not circumstances 
which are inextricably linked with the insured peril in the sense that they have the 
same underlying or originating cause. Such an approach ensures that the trends 
clause is construed consistently with the insuring clause, and not so as to take away 
cover prima facie provided by that clause.
Therefore, the trading position should be reflected to account for the losses 
unconnected with the insured peril. China Taipings Loss of Income clause expressly 
calls for the but for test and requires the same approach. 
Covid-19 and the UK Government regulations are unconnected to the insured peril 
so this should be reflected in the settlement.
Decision neither fair nor reasonableIf my decision doesnt apply the rationale set out above it would be neither fair nor 
reasonable and no reasonable person could reach the same outcome if they had 
been properly informed and directed as to the relevant law.
China Taiping have treated P fairly and reasonably throughout the claim and made 
payments over their contractual liability in order to assist P wherever possible. 
As part of the claim settlement China Taiping paid P an amount for takeaways with 
no deductions for 26 weeks and also paid the wages of two staff members for the full 
24-month indemnity period. 
China Taiping allowed Ps turnover in full for August 2020 to take into account the 
eat out to help out scheme and paid in excess of 70% for losses between July and 
November 2020.
China Taiping paid Ps fees to enable it to apply for a reduction in business rates. 
This saved P £30,000. 
A final decision along the lines of my provisional decision would have major 
implications for China Taipings business as it would mean they would have to 
guarantee cover for the full indemnity period where there is a later event which is 
unconnected with the original insured peril. 
Interest
Given the length of time our service has taken to reach a decision China Taiping 
invites me to reconsider this part of the decision. 
Before reaching a final decision I asked P to clarify the period in dispute as well as the 
amount it thinks is owed by China Taiping. I also asked both parties to confirm whether the 
money already paid by China Taiping was in dispute.
P confirmed that the period in dispute is March 2020 until February 2021. Although China 
Taiping sent P its final response to the complaint in July 2020, China Taiping have agreed to 
me reaching a decision on the entire period in dispute. 
I also asked China Taiping whether they believed that Covid-19 had delayed repairs to Ps 
premises. China Taiping said they could not say whether repairs had been delayed. 
I also let parties know that in relation to China Taipings comments on why Covid-19 wasnt a 
concurrent cause I intended to rely on an extract from Insurance Claims (5th edition), Alison 
Padfield QC which says at para 4.3. The two causes do not have to be exactly co-
extensive in time: a later cause may join with a previous and continuing cause so as to 
become concurrent.
China Taiping said that this extract had been taken by Alison Padfield QC from para. 47 of 
Handelsbanken, Norwegian Branch of Svenska Handelsbanken Ab (Publ) v Dandridge & 
Others [2002] EWCA Civ 577 (Handelsbanken). China Taiping said Ps case could be 
differentiated from this case because:
The originating cause of Ps loss and damage (i.e. the structural damage by the third 
party) was the previous cause of Ps loss but was not a continuing cause.
Unlike in Handelsbanken, the initial accidental damage by the third party to Ps 
premises was a one-off cause, unlike the continued detention in the case of the 
vessel.
The Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent UK Government responses occurred well 
after expiry of the policy. 
On any reasonable (and correct) analysis the initial damage by the third party and the Covid19 outbreak did not operate concurrently to cause Ps loss, but consecutively 
(or subsequently).
China Taiping said that they believed that the outstanding amount of the claim they would be 
required to pay by my decision would be around £51,000.
To clarify the amounts already paid under the claim, the amount in dispute and the redress I 
intended to award I sent an email to both parties via our investigator on 25 January 2023. In 
that I said I understood from P that China Taiping had paid P £212,194 for the period up to 
March 2020. I said I didnt consider that the amount paid for the period up to March 2020 
was in dispute. Therefore, I said that the amount paid for the period up to March 2020 is not 
subject to our award limit.
I said that the period in dispute is from March 2020 until February 2021. I understood from P 
that China Taiping had already paid £50,258 for this period. I said that this period would be 
subject to our award limit of £355,000.
China Taiping asked for an extension to review matters. An extension was given until 8 
February 2023 but China Taiping did not provide any further comments by the required date. 
P confirmed the figures were accurate. It said it believed that about £50,000 would be due 
from China Taiping in settlement of its claim. It added that the amount paid for the claim up 
to March 2020 included money paid directly by the third party, but as this was out of scope of 
the decision it didnt think this made a difference. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from the outcome I reached in my provisional 
decision and subsequent emails. I will explain why below.
I understand that the period in dispute is from March 2020, when China Taiping reduced Ps 
settlement to account for the UK Government restrictions as a result of Covid-19, until 
February 2021, the end of the 24-month indemnity period. 
P said that China Taiping have already paid £212,194 towards Ps claim for the period up to 
March 2020. Neither party have indicated that the amount paid in relation to the period up to 
March 2020 is in dispute, so I do not consider that it forms part of Ps complaint. 
I consider that the amounts paid by China Taiping to P relating to the period March 2020 
until February 2021 are in dispute  as China Taiping considers that the payments were 
correctly reduced during that period, whereas P disagrees and says that China Taiping 
should have continued to pay the full amount of its claim. 
For completeness, I have set out the relevant wording within the policy below. Section 3 of 
the policy is headed LOSS OF INCOME and provides: 
COVER
The Company will indemnify the Insured for
1.
(a) loss of Income and(b) additional expenditure resulting from
(i) Damage
(a) insured by Sections 1 or 2
(b)
occurring during the Period of Insurance and the amount payable as indemnity
shall be
(a) the shortfall between the Income received during the Indemnity Period and
the Income which would have been received but for the Damage
(b) the additional expenditure necessarily and reasonably incurred to avoid
such a shortfall but only to the extent of the shortfall thereby avoided
less any sum saved during the Indemnity Period on business expenses or 
charges which cease or reduce as a result of the Damage
If during the Indemnity Period the Insured or others acting on the Insureds behalf 
sells goods or performs services away from the Premises for the benefit of the 
Business any money paid or payable for such sales or services shall be taken 
into account in arriving at the Income during the Indemnity Period.
Income is defined as, The money paid or payable to the Insured for goods sold and 
delivered (less the net purchase price of such goods) and for services rendered in the 
course of the Business at the Premises.
Damage is defined as Loss, destruction or damage. 
Period of Insurance is the period of cover, 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019.
Business means Ps business, and Premises mean Ps premises, both as set out 
in the policy schedule. 
Indemnity Period is defined as, in respect of 1 (i) of Cover,
The period beginning with the occurrence of the loss destruction damage or 
event and lasting no longer than 12 months thereafter during which the results of 
the Business shall be affected by the loss or damage
It is not in dispute between the parties that the indemnity period is 24 months, as set 
out in the policy schedule. 
The legal position
As I have set out in my provisional findings, the starting position in insurance law is that 
where there are two effective causes, one insured and one uninsured (but not excluded) the 
insurers are liable because the uninsured cause does not prevent cover for the insured 
cause. This can be contrasted with the situation where there are two proximate causes of 
loss, where one is insured and one is expressly excluded from cover under the policy. In this 
situation, although it will depend on how the provisions are drafted, the exclusion will 
generally prevail and the loss will not be covered.
In this case, the originating cause of loss to P was the property damage caused by the third 
party works in early 2019. Later, in March 2020, the impact of Covid-19 and the subsequent 
restrictions was a concurrent cause of loss. However, neither Covid-19 nor the UK 
Government restrictions are explicitly excluded under the policy. Therefore, I believe that the starting position here is that the uninsured cause (Covid 19 and the UK Government 
restrictions) does not prevent cover for the insured cause (accidental damage).
The Supreme Court set out some general principles of construction in the FCA Test Case:
The core principle is that an insurance policy, like any other contract, must be 
interpreted objectively by asking what a reasonable person, with all the background 
knowledge which would reasonably have been available to the parties when they 
entered into the contract, would have understood the language of the contract to 
mean. Evidence about what the parties subjectively intended or understood the 
contract to mean is not relevant to the courts task (para. 47).
the overriding question is how the words of the contract would be understood by a 
reasonable person. In case of an insurance policy of the present kind, sold principally 
to SMEs, the person to whom the document should be taken to be addressed is not a 
pedantic lawyer who will subject the entire policy wording to a minute textual analysis 
(cf Jumbo King Lts v Faithful Properties Ltd (1999) 2 HKCFAR 279, para 59). It is an 
ordinary policyholder who, on entering into the contract, is taken to have read 
through the policy conscientiously in order to understand what cover they were 
getting (para. 77).
The loss of income clause in the policy doesnt refer to trends or other circumstances and 
therefore I think it is quantification wording rather than a trends clause.
China Taiping agrees that the policy does not include a trends clause. Ive seen other China 
Taiping policies on the market around the same time which did include a trends clause. This 
indicates to me that the policy was deliberately drafted in this way and intended to not 
operate with a trends clause. Also, even if China Taiping hadnt drafted other policies with a 
trends clause, I think that a reasonable policyholder entering into the contract would have 
understood that any loss would not be adjusted by reference to trends or circumstances that 
may have existed during the indemnity period. As such, I dont think the reasonable person 
entering into the contract in October 2018, would understand the policy to operate in the way 
China Taiping say it was intended to operate. 
Concurrent cause 
China Taiping think I have made an error of law by finding that the UK Government 
restrictions in response to Covid-19 is a concurrent cause of Ps loss because it happened 
consequently or subsequently to the structural damage by the third party. While I accept that 
the UK Government restrictions occurred later than the property damage, I dont think that 
stops them being a concurrent cause of the loss. 
I believe reference to a concurrent cause refers to a situation where during the period of the 
loss there are two (or more) causes of loss. These may be in existence at the start of the 
period of loss (i.e. originating concurrent causes) or may occur at different times during the 
period of loss (sequential concurrency). Concurrency can also operate in parallel. Therefore, 
the fact that the UK Government restrictions as a result of Covid-19 did not occur until a year 
after the initial damage to the property does not mean they cannot be a concurrent cause. It 
occurred during the period of loss of income and was a causative factor in Ps income being 
reduced. This is supported by Insurance Claims (5th edition), Alison Padfield QC which 
says at para. 4.3. The two causes do not have to be exactly co-extensive in time: a later 
cause may join with a previous and continuing cause so as to become concurrent.
I have considered China Taipings points about why they think Ps case can be differentiated 
from Handelsbanken, but I dont agree. While the accidental damage to Ps premises might have been a one-off event, the impact of it (i.e. that the premises hadnt been repaired) 
continued throughout the impact of Covid-19 and beyond the period of the policy and the 
indemnity period.  
I think that a key question is whether or not the losses from the two causes can be 
separated. Riley on Business Interruption Insurance (11th edition) says at 13.6 The 
Supreme Court findings on concurrent causation suggest that if they cannot, then in the 
absence of any other argument, there is cover in full for all periods where both are proximate 
causes. I think it would be extremely difficult to separate the loss of income from the 
property damage, which left P unable to trade in its usual way, with the loss of income from 
the impact of the UK Government restrictions, which also left P unable to trade (save for 
takeaway business). Therefore, I believe that Covid-19 and the UK Government restrictions 
were a concurrent cause of Ps loss. 
The but for test
China Taiping have agreed that the loss of income clause in the policy is not a trends clause. 
However, they seek to rely on the Supreme Court reasoning on trends clauses in the FCA 
Test Case to justify their argument that Ps loss of income should be adjusted to reflect the 
circumstances of the Government restrictions. In my view, as the loss of income clause isnt 
a trends clause, the courts reasoning in relation to trends clauses doesnt apply.
China Taiping also believe that there should be a strict application of the but for test. 
However, it is acknowledged that the but for test is inadequate. As the Supreme Court held 
in the FCA Test Case at para. 182:
It has, however, long been recognised that in law as indeed in other areas of life 
the but for test is inadequate, not only because it is over-inclusive, but also 
because it excludes some cases where one event could or would be regarded as 
a cause of another event. 
The Supreme Court then set out a number of examples where a strict application of the but 
for test would be deficient. One example is a case of two fires, started independently of 
each other, which combine to burn down a property. As the Supreme Court held, at para.182 
It is natural to regard each fire as a cause of the loss even if either fire would by itself have 
destroyed the property so that it cannot be said of either fire that, but for that peril, the loss 
would not have occurred. Another is a case where two hunters simultaneously shoot a hiker 
who is behind some bushes and medical evidence shows that either bullet would have killed 
the hiker instantly even if the other bullet had not been fired. Applying the but for test in 
these cases would produce the result that neither fire caused the property damage and 
neither hunters shot caused the hikers death  results which the Supreme Court concluded 
is manifestly not consistent with common-sense principles.
I recognise that if P had not been closed due to the accidental damage, it would have been 
impacted by Covid-19 and the UK Government restrictions. However, the loss of income 
clause in the policy isnt a trends clause. And for the reasons set out above and in my 
provisional decision, I dont think this circumvents the position that the uninsured cause 
doesnt prevent cover for the insured cause where the uninsured cause is not excluded. 
Whether Covid-19 and the UK Government restrictions had occurred or not, Ps income 
would have been impacted by the damage to its premises until the end of the indemnity 
period in February 2021. My understanding is that the repairs to the property damage were 
not completed until August 2021.
China Taiping consider their situation to be analogous to the star chef example set out in 
para. 231 of the FCA Test Case, where counsel for the FCA postulated a case where the restaurant had a star chef who was due to leave on 1 April 2020 for reasons unrelated to the 
pandemic. In this case it would be unreasonable to require the insurer to indemnify the 
policyholder for loss of turnover resulting from inability to use the premises in so far as such 
turnover would have been reduced in any event by reason of the chef's departure. 
However, I disagree. As I set out in my provisional decision quoted above, I think that 
paragraphs 232 and 260 to 264 of the FCA Test Case support that the quantification 
machinery in a policy (here set out in Section 3: LOSS OF INCOME) should not be 
construed so as to take away cover for losses covered by an insuring clause on the basis of 
concurrent causes of those losses, where the uninsured cause is not excluded. To do so 
would effectively transform that quantification machinery into an exclusion. I appreciate that 
China Taiping dont think that the wording in Section 3 of the policy is intended to act as an 
exclusion, but I think, in effect, this is what it would be. 
What is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances
While I disagree with China Taipings interpretation of the law in relation to this, I accept that 
the legal position is unclear. The Supreme Court in the FCA Test Case was dealing with 
cases which had concurrent causes or losses from the same underlying cause. Whereas, in 
this case, the two causes are not from the same underlying cause. 
However, even if my interpretation of the legal position is incorrect, I still think the outcome I 
have reached is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. Therefore, even if my 
findings above and in my provisional decision are a departure from the law, I think it is fair 
and reasonable to do so. 
Thats because, in addition to my reasons above, if China Taiping are able to adjust the 
amount of Ps claim for loss of income they would be benefiting hugely from the impact of 
Covid-19 as this is the amount they would have had to pay for the damage. The impact of 
the property damage existed throughout the claim period and would have done so if Covid-
19 hadnt occurred. P said that at the point of lockdown in March 2020 it wasnt due to open 
for at least nine months and China Taipings report from April 2020 indicate that repairs 
werent due to be completed before the first lockdown ended. P also said that it wasnt able 
to apply for Government support during the pandemic due to being closed, although I note 
that China Taiping doesnt think P would have been eligible for this in any event. Moreover, 
China Taiping havent indicated that Covid-19 caused any delay in the repairs. So I dont 
think Covid-19 will have caused China Taiping any additional loss that they werent already 
liable for in this case. 
As I have also set out above, the policy doesnt include a trends clause and I dont think a 
reasonable policyholder would interpret it in the way that China Taiping say that it should 
work. Therefore, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to allow China Taiping to 
adjust the settlement as though there were a trends clause. 
I do recognise China Taipings point that there have been occasions where they have 
supported P to achieve other savings or given an advance of what was due from the third 
party insurer. However, I dont think thats a reason for me to not require China Taiping to 
pay the settlement without making any deduction for Covid-19 and the UK Government 
restrictions, given that China Taiping have recovered costs from the third party insurer. 
I have also considered China Taipings point that this decision will have implications for their 
business. However, my role is to consider the fair and reasonable outcome to this particular 
complaint, and I have set out my reasons for why I think this is the fair and reasonable 
outcome. I dont believe that the impact of this decision on China Taipings business should 
mean I reach a different outcome. Interest
I have noted the point China Taiping have made about the length of time taken to reach a 
decision; however Im not persuaded to change my mind. As China Taiping are aware, the 
issue at the heart of this complaint is not straightforward and there have been a number of 
arguments put forward by both parties which Ive needed to consider. Moreover, it has 
always been open to China Taiping to settle this claim in the way I require.
I do recognise that China Taiping have, in some circumstances, helped P by paying money 
owed directly by the third party insurer. However, ultimately, I dont believe that China 
Taiping made the correct decision in how they settled this claim and that has led to P being 
without money it should have had, while China Taiping have had the benefit of that money 
instead. Therefore, I remain of the view that the fair and reasonable outcome is for China 
Taiping to add 8% interest to the settlement as set out in the Putting things right section 
below.
Claim value
I have noted the amount China Taiping and P believe should be paid (around £50,000) in 
response to my decision. I will not be making a finding on the amount payable in this 
decision. If, following my decision, P is unhappy with the amount China Taiping pay, it would 
need to complain about that separately. 
Putting things right
I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be calculated as follows:
China Taiping should pay Ps claim, in line with any limits within the policy, from March 2020 
until February 2021 without making any adjustments for the impact of Covid-19 or the UK 
Government regulations. China Taiping can deduct any payments they have already made 
to P under the policy for this period.
As P has been without money it should have had, China Taiping should also pay interest on 
the outstanding amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date they should have paid
the claim to the date China Taiping make payment.
China Taiping were paying Ps claim on a monthly basis and I think this is what they should
have continued to do. China Taiping should therefore have paid Ps claim for the period     
27 March to 27 April 2020 on 27 May 2020, the claim for 27 April to 27 May 2020 on 27 June 
2020 and so on.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co 
Ltd to settle Ps claim as set out in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman