DRN-3760731
The complaint
Mr P is a sole trader. He complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) 
delayed the repairs to his van following a vandalism claim which caused him to lose income. 
What happened
Mr P took out a van insurance policy with Advantage. He made a claim on the policy 
following his van being vandalised. Under the terms of the policy, Mr P was entitled to a 
replacement vehicle, but he was told by the garage that no vehicles were available. The 
garage said that if Mr P agreed not to use a replacement vehicle during the period of repairs, 
they would fast track them. Mr P agreed to go ahead with the repairs without a replacement 
vehicle on the basis that Advantage told him the repairs would be completed by Friday 4 
February 2022, or early the following week. Mr P said he expected for them to be completed 
by 9 February 2022 at the very latest. 
The repairs to Mr Ps van were delayed by a further seven days which he says he wasnt 
expecting and has caused him to lose income as he was unable to work without his van 
during that period. 
Mr P complained to Advantage  who said that the garage was unable to provide a 
replacement vehicle due to shortages and supply chain issues. Advantage acknowledged 
that the repairs unfortunately took longer than originally estimated which meant Mr P was 
without his van for a further period of seven days. Advantage offered £150 as compensation 
for the delay.
Mr P disagreed with the compensation Advantage offered  he said he had suffered 
consequential losses for the week he was without his van. He said it was difficult to put a 
number on the amount he lost during this period  but felt it would be fair to refund £350  
the same amount he says he paid for his excess. Advantage disagreed  so Mr P brought 
the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
that, while it was clear there were delays, the offer made by Advantage was fair and 
reasonable and, in any event, Mr P hadnt been able to evidence his consequential losses, 
so he didnt think it was fair to award these.  
Mr P asked for an ombudsmans decision  he said that the offer Advantage made didnt 
fairly take into account his losses, which could be as high as £800 for the week of work he 
lost. He said that the offer made by Advantage was less than the national minimum wage 
and less than it would have cost to hire a replacement van.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and carefully considered everything Mr P and Advantage have said. However, my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point that the parties have raised. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr P, and Advantage, to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
When considering whether or not Advantage dealt with Mr Ps claim fairly, I have looked 
closely at the relevant policy terms and conditions.
Mr P said that under the terms of his policy, he was entitled to a replacement vehicle when 
his van went to the garage for repairs. The relevant section states: 
Replacement vehicle
Youll get a replacement vehicle while your Van is being repaired
(see About the replacement vehicle service for conditions).
Mr Ps van went to the garage for repair on 28 January 2022. In line with the above policy 
terms, Mr P was entitled to a replacement vehicle from this date, until the repairs had been 
completed. But Advantage said due to a shortage there wasnt a replacement vehicle 
available for Mr P. 
Mr P told us that, because the garage said they could fast track his repairs, he agreed to go 
ahead without a replacement vehicle, but he was expecting to have his van back by 
9 February 2022 at the latest. Mr P said that during this time he had the use of his partners 
vehicle, and he was able to complete his current job without the need for a large vehicle 
because most of his tools and equipment were already at the premises where work was 
being completed. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Mr P agreed to forgo his right to the 
replacement vehicle on the basis that the repairs were carried out within a specific 
timeframe.  
However, the repairs to Mr Ps van were delayed and took a further seven days to complete. 
Mr P said that during this period he couldnt work and therefore suffered a loss of income. 
Advantage apologised for the delay in repairing Mr Ps van and offered £150 compensation. 
Mr P doesnt agree that this amount sufficiently compensates him for his loss of income. To 
resolve the matter, Mr P would like Advantage to pay him £350 compensation. 
I agree with our investigator that the repairs to Mr Ps van werent carried in the timeframe 
specified by Advantage and Mr P was entitled to a replacement vehicle. Advantage also 
accepts there was a delay with the repairs being completed and it offered to pay Mr P £150 
compensation. I need to consider whether the compensation offered by Advantage is fair. 
I understand Mr P had to take several days away from work while waiting for the repair on 
his van to be completed. And he says that, because he wasnt able to work, he lost out on 
earnings. Our investigator asked Mr P to provide evidence of his losses, but Mr P said he 
didnt have anything to show which jobs he turned down due to not having a vehicle during 
those seven days. 
Ive considered whether Mr P has demonstrated that its most likely that he suffered a loss 
and what the losses are. From what Ive seen, I only have Mr Ps comments on the losses 
he believes he suffered as a result of not being able to work during this period. Based on this 
alone, Im not persuaded that Ive seen enough to show that Mr P has suffered an actual 
financial loss as a result of the seven-day delay in repairing his van. 
Overall, I consider the £150 compensation offered by Advantage to be fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances and I dont require Advantage to do anything differently. My final decision
My final decision is that Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds offer to pay Mr P £150 
compensation is fair and reasonable. 
I direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr P £150 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman