DRN-3458048
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint against St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) is 
about the Business Relief (BR) investments they were advised to make in 2018.
What happened
Following meetings with an SJP adviser in April, May and June 2018, Mr and Mrs T invested 
funds in two BR investments, which were designed to provide inheritance tax (IHT) relief 
after two years. Mr and Mrs T invested £101,523 in the Oxford Capital EPS, which is the 
main focus of their complaint. They also invested £104,110 in the Time Advance Plan.   
The Oxford Capital EPS was suspended in 2019 and subsequently taken over by another 
provider. By 2020, the value of Mr and Mrs Ts investment had dropped significantly. Mr and 
Mrs T complained to SJP that: 
The advice they were given was not suitable for their needs.
They were assured by SJP that the investments had strong track records and did not 
wind up, and that neither of them was towards the higher end of the risk continuum. 
Oxford Capital have told them that represents a misunderstanding of the risk profile of 
the EPS.  
SJPs due diligence should have highlighted that there were problems in the industry and 
with the holding company finances at the time they invested in the EPS. 
They have subsequently taken advantage of BR through a discretionary portfolio of 
shares listed on AIM, with their initial investments limited to £20,000 per company. 
They wonder why SJP didnt recommend such a scheme to them in 2018.
In response to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, SJP said: 
Their advice was suitable for Mr and Mrs T, whose objective was to mitigate their IHT 
liability. They had investment experience, including of high risk investments, and 
capacity for loss consistent with what they would expect for clients who take out such 
investments.
SJP had no influence and were not responsible for the ongoing investment decisions 
made by Oxford Capital. When Mr and Mrs T invested in the BR products, they agreed 
that the providers would act as discretionary fund managers. 
Mr and Mrs T signed a declaration which highlighted that SJPs approach to investment 
management does not extend to BR investments and they cannot be held responsible 
for the underlying decisions of the investment provider.
The risks of investments of this nature were highlighted to Mr and Mrs T in the 
documentation provided to them. They were informed there was a risk of getting back 
significantly less than they invested. That point was also detailed in the declaration they 
signed. 
All appropriate due diligence was conducted prior to appointing Oxford Capital to their 
panel of investment providers. There were multiple levels of due diligence conducted by 
both internal and external adjudicators. 
Issues with some of the underlying investments in the EPS were not known about prior 
to Mr and Mrs Ts investment. The first point SJP were made aware of the issues was in 
February 2019, the month they were first identified.
It was the duty of the investment provider to keep Mr and Mrs T up to date with 
information about their investment, including the transfer to a new provider. 
SJP guarantee the appropriateness and suitability of their advice and product selection 
but make no guarantees about the performance of any products. They have no influence 
and cannot be held responsible for the underlying decisions of the investment provider.  
Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt think SJP had 
done anything wrong. She said, in summary: 
SJPs recommendation was suitable for Mr and Mrs T. They were also provided with 
sufficient information to supplement their knowledge and experience of investments to 
make an informed choice as to whether to proceed. 
SJPs recommendation achieved Mr and Mrs Ts objective of reducing their estates IHT 
liability. It would have reduced their liability by £82,253 after two years.
The investment represented about 16% of Mr and Mrs Ts investable wealth. They had a 
disposable income of £2,137.66 a month, an emergency fund of £10,000 in cash and 
£207,000 in readily available national savings. So, they had the capacity to bear losses 
and the investment was affordable to them.
Whilst Mr and Mrs Ts attitude to risk was medium, they were willing to accept a higher 
risk for this investment due to the tax advantages. They had investment experience and 
signed a declaration to confirm they understood and accepted the risks associated with 
BR investments.  
SJP had said the investments were not towards the higher end of the risk continuum 
within a sector that can offer higher levels of volatility and risk. Overall SJP had made 
clear the high risk of investing in smaller, unquoted companies.
Based on what she had seen, she had no reason to believe that SJP didnt follow their 
usual approach to due diligence in selecting companies it recommended to provide BR 
investments for Mr and Mrs T. She said that due diligence in the holding companies and 
their selection was the responsibility of the investment provider and not SJP.  
SJP accepted our investigators view. Mr and Mrs T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to make a final decision. In addition to points they had already raised, they said they had not 
previously seen the suitability letter from SJP dated 29 June 2018 which our investigator had 
referred to in giving her findings. They could not understand how such a vital letter would be 
dated nine days after forms were signed and cheques issued for the investments. They also 
said the letter was inaccurate on the source of the funds they were investing and in 
describing the investments as personally chosen by Mr and Mrs T.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs T that I have looked carefully at all the information they have 
provided. Having done so, I hope they wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent addressed 
every point they have raised. Instead, Ive concentrated my findings on what I consider to be 
the key factors in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to their complaint.  
In this decision, I am looking at the actions of SJP. They were responsible for giving Mr and 
Mrs T suitable advice about their investments and for making sure they were given 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading to enable them to make an informed 
decision.
SJP were not responsible for managing Mr and Mrs Ts investment in the EPS, which was a 
discretionary investment management service provided by Oxford Capital. It was for Oxford 
Capital to manage the EPS in a way that was consistent with the terms and investment 
mandate set out in the Information Memorandum (IM) document.    
Suitability of SJPs advice
SJP advised Mr and Mrs T to invest just over £200,000 in two BR investments, including 
about £100,000 in the EPS. Although Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is focused on their 
investment in the EPS, I have looked first at the overall suitability of the advice they were 
given. I will then consider their specific concerns about the EPS.  
In looking at the suitability of SJPs advice, Ive taken account of what both parties have said 
and the documents they have provided from the time. It might be helpful if I first summarise 
the key dates and some of the documents I have seen: 
Mr and Mrs T met the SJP adviser in April 2018. In a letter dated 12 April 2018, the 
adviser said they had discussed Mr and Mrs Ts IHT liability. He enclosed a factsheet 
about BR investments and suggested a further meeting. 
Following a meeting on 1 May 2018, the adviser sent Mr and Mrs T a letter outlining his 
recommendations. Although the letter was dated 16 May 2018, Mr and Mrs T have said 
they only received it on 15 June 2018, a few days before their second meeting with the 
adviser which took place on 19 June 2018.
At the meeting on 19 June 2018, Mr and Mrs T completed the application form and 
signed a cheque for the EPS investment (the application form for the other BR 
investment was signed slightly later). They also signed SJPs client declaration for BR 
investments. 
SJPs adviser sent a suitability letter to Mr and Mrs T, dated 29 June 2018. Mr and Mrs T 
have said they didnt receive the letter at the time and that it contains some inaccuracies. 
I note also that it was dated after Mr and Mrs T had already agreed to SJPs advice and 
completed the EPS application. I have taken account of these points, but much of the 
letter is consistent with other evidence and so I think it is relevant in determining Mr and 
Mrs Ts circumstances at the time and what I think was most likely discussed with them. 
The rules say that a business needs to get enough information from a customer to make 
sure a recommendation meets their objectives. So, before making their recommendations, SJP should have taken account of Mr and Mrs Ts financial situation, their purpose in 
investing and attitude to risk, and how long they wanted to invest for.
 
Mr and Mrs Ts objective was to reduce their IHT liability. From the paperwork Ive seen, it 
appears their estate was valued at between £2.1 and £2.3 million and their IHT liability was 
assessed to be over £500,000. They had whole of life policies held in trust that were 
estimated to cover £224,000 of that liability. SJP estimated that the BR investments would 
reduce Mr and Mrs Ts IHT liability by £82,253 after the two year qualifying period. So, Im 
satisfied that SJPs advice was consistent with Mr and Mrs Ts investment objective.  
At the time of SJPs advice, Mr and Mrs T held a mixed portfolio of investments, including 
some high risk products but also large cash deposits. It seems they were reasonably 
experienced investors who would have been familiar with investment risk. The suitability 
letter said that Mr and Mrs Ts attitude to risk was medium, but they were willing to accept a 
higher level of risk for this investment due to the tax advantages. As Ive already noted, the 
suitability letter was sent after Mr and Mrs T had agreed to invest. But, based on all the 
evidence Ive seen, I think this was most likely an accurate description of their attitude to 
risk. 
Based on their circumstances at the time, I think Mr and Mrs T did have capacity to take a 
higher level of risk with some of their funds. They had a diversified portfolio of other 
investments totalling about £1.2 million (excluding their property). They have said that the 
funds they were investing had been realised from OEIC investments held within their ISAs 
and they would have carried some risk. 
The £200,000 Mr and Mrs T invested in the BR products, and which they were putting at risk 
of capital loss, would have represented about 17% of their investable assets. They had over 
£10,000 in cash based savings to cover any emergencies that might arise and other readily 
available funds, and they had a disposable income of over £2,000 a month. So, I think Mr 
and Mrs T had the capacity to absorb some losses and it was not unreasonable for SJP to 
recommend some higher risk investments, particularly given their IHT objective.  
SJP also had a responsibility to make clear to Mr and Mrs T the level of risk they were 
taking. Mr and Mrs T complain that SJP didnt do so and have referred in particular to the 
advisers 16 May 2018 letter which said of the BR investments: neither of them are towards 
the higher end of the risk continuum within a sector that can offer higher levels of volatility 
and risk. 
Taken on its own, I dont think the 16 May 2018 letter made sufficiently clear that the BR 
investments were high risk, and that Mr and Mrs T were putting their funds at risk of 
significant capital loss. But I have considered that letter in the context of all the information 
that I think was likely given to Mr and Mrs T at the time, in particular:
As already discussed, Im satisfied that the adviser discussed with Mr and Mrs T their 
attitude to risk and that they were prepared to take a higher level of risk to achieve their 
IHT objective. I think Mr and Mrs T would have known, or ought to have known, from the 
outset that the risk of the products SJP were recommending was higher to provide tax 
relief.   
According to the 16 May 2018 letter, the adviser gave Mr and Mrs T a copy of the 
literature relating to the two BR products at their first meeting. And the letter of 
29 June 2018 says he gave them a copy of the IM for the EPS. That document explained 
that the target returns were not guaranteed. It said the EPS would invest in unquoted 
securities, which may expose investors to a significant risk of losing all the money 
invested. At the meeting on 19 June 2018, Mr and Mrs T signed SJPs BR declaration. 
That declaration described BR investments as a high risk solution and said clients 
could get back significantly less than was originally invested. Mr and Mrs T were 
reasonably experienced investors and I think its most likely they would only have signed 
the declaration if they had discussed risk with the adviser and were prepared to accept 
the higher level of risk described.
Overall, Im persuaded that SJP did provide sufficiently clear information to Mr and Mrs T 
about the risks of the BR investments, to enable them to make an informed decision. I think 
Mr and Mrs T were prepared to take a higher level of risk with a significant proportion of their 
assets in order to reduce their IHT liability. And, on balance, I think SJPs advice to Mr and 
Mrs T was suitable to their needs.
Mr and Mrs T have complained that they later took advantage of other BR investments and 
that SJP should have recommended something similar in 2018. The suitability letter of 29 
June 2018 said that the adviser considered a number of other investments that were not 
recommended. I cant be sure if those options were discussed with Mr and Mrs T but, even if 
they were not, it would not change my findings on the suitability of the advice they were 
given. Although there might have been other suitable investments available, Im satisfied that 
the advice SJP gave to Mr and Mrs T was suitable for their needs. 
EPS investment 
I will now look at Mr and Mrs Ts specific complaints about the EPS.  
I think SJP provided sufficiently clear information to Mr and Mrs T about what kind of 
investment the EPS was. As Ive already noted, the adviser left them copies of literature 
about the EPS, including the IM. That explained that the EPS was a discretionary portfolio 
management service, managed by Oxford Capital. They would invest Mr and Mrs Ts money 
in one or more unquoted BR qualifying companies and had a mandate to make investment 
decisions on behalf of investors. The BR client declaration Mr and Mrs T signed said that 
SJP had no influence and could not be held responsible for the underlying investment 
decisions of the provider.
Ive already found that SJP made clear to Mr and Mrs T the risks of the BR investments 
overall. In relation to the EPS specifically, the IM said it would invest in unquoted securities, 
which may expose investors to a significant risk of losing all the money invested. 
The investment risks section of the IM also highlighted the risk that the EPS may not achieve 
the targeted returns and that investee companies may fail, resulting in their securities being 
sold for significantly less than the amount paid for them. It went on to set out other key risks 
including changes in legislation, lack of liquidity, concentration of investments and 
operational and financing risks specific to the relevant industries - such as changes in power 
prices and delays in the supply of new equipment. 
So, I think it should have been clear to Mr and Mrs T that while the EPS was targeting capital 
preservation with a small return, that was not guaranteed. The EPS was still a high risk 
investment that put an investors capital at risk.
Mr and Mrs T have also complained that SJPs due diligence on the EPS was inadequate. 
SJP have provided information on what they describe as the multiple layers of due diligence 
they conducted before deciding that the EPS was a product they would offer to investors. 
As part of the process, third-party consultants produced a report on the EPS management, 
strategy, track record and governance.Ive looked carefully at what Mr and Mrs T have said and the information provided by SJP. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly say that the due diligence conducted by 
SJP was inadequate. And, as Ive already concluded, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
SJP to recommend the EPS as a suitable product for Mr and Mrs T at the time they invested. 
As Ive already noted, Oxford Capital had a mandate for making investment decisions on 
behalf of investors in the EPS. They would have been responsible for conducting due 
diligence on the investee companies, which were inherently risky businesses offering no 
guarantees of success. 
Summary
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs T that Ive looked carefully at everything they have said. 
But, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think SJP provided them with suitable advice and 
sufficiently clear information in relation to the investments they made. While I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs T feel strongly about what has happened to their investment, 
I dont think I can fairly hold SJP responsible for their losses. It would appear that some of 
the potential risks associated with this kind of investment have been realised.  
I realise this will be a disappointing decision for Mr and Mrs T, but I wont be upholding their 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts 
complaint against St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman