DRN-3353869
The complaint
Mrs B complained that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans acted 
irresponsibly when it gave her unaffordable loans.
What happened
Likely Loans provided two loans to Mrs B as follows:
LoanDate taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
PayableDate 
repaid
1 11/5/2018 £1,000 12 
months£115.96 £1,391.52 5/6/2018
2 4/1/2021 £5,000 24 
months£379.64 £9,111.36 14/9/2021
Mrs B brought her complaint to us through her representative, but to keep things simpler, 
Ill just refer to Mrs B.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and whilst he didnt think that we could uphold 
Mrs Bs complaint about loan 1 he did think that loan 2 shouldnt have been provided. He set 
out his findings in a letter explaining how hed come to his view. Mrs B hasnt specifically 
commented on our adjudicators suggested settlement. Likely Loans didnt agree with what 
our adjudicator said about upholding loan 2. 
Our adjudicator wrote back to Likely Loans addressing the points it had raised in support of 
its viewpoint and we didnt hear anything further. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive independently reached the 
same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must 
work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable 
expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that 
the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must 
take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in 
other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally 
to have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be 
more difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the 
fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were 
done and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there 
was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more 
money problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid 
in a sustainable way.
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Likely Loans did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mrs B. 
As far as I can see, Mrs B hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding her complaint about loan 1. So I dont think I need to say more about loan 1 
except that Ive reviewed this loan and independently reached the same conclusion as our 
adjudicator. I havent seen enough to say that Likely Loans shouldnt have provided this loan 
 so Im not planning on upholding this part of Mrs Bs complaint.   
But, like our adjudicator, I dont think Likely Loans shouldve provided loan 2. Ill explain 
why I say this. 
Likely Loans asked Mrs B about her income and took steps to check this out. It worked 
out a figure of around £1,890 for Mrs Bs monthly earnings. Likely Loans relied on 
statistical information to compare Mrs Bs income and expenditure against national data 
showing typical spending for someone in the same situation. Likely Loans also carried 
out credit checks and saw that she had a number of other credit commitments already. 
After allowing for everything Likely Loans thought Mrs B would need to spend each month 
(plus an extra £50 buffer as a safety margin) and taking into account the cost of the 
repayments she would have to make for this loan, Likely Loans worked out that Mrs B 
should still have surplus cash each month and so the loan was affordable for her.
I've thought carefully about what Likely Loans has said, including the comments it has made 
in response to our adjudicators view. I've taken into account that Likely Loans made 
allowance for Mrs Bs other monthly outgoings being around 35% of her income, which it 
now says is probably an over-estimate of her actual spending, given her particular circumstances by the time she applied for loan 2. But if Likely Loans is right about this and 
Mrs B had lower living costs than it allowed for, this would make it harder to understand why 
she would need this expensive loan. She hadnt stated any clear loan purpose. 
So this doesnt affect my view overall and I dont think that Likely Loans made a fair lending 
decision when it provided loan 2.
I think Likely Loans should have been concerned when it noted in its affordability calculation 
that Mrs B was already committed to paying around £545 to service her outstanding debt. 
This meant that Mrs B was already paying well over a quarter of her net pay to existing 
creditors. I think that this was such a significant proportion of Mrs Bs monthly income it was 
a clear warning sign that she was already over-reliant on credit and an indication that she 
was having serious money problems. It wasnt clear why she would need such a large loan 
when, as Likely Loans has pointed out, her change in circumstances meant that her living 
costs were potentially less than they had been previously. And by the time she took out this 
loan, costing a further £379.64 each month, this would take her monthly repayments on 
credit commitments alone to almost half her take home pay.
I think that this amount was such a significant proportion of her net income, it was a clear 
indication that Mrs B was unlikely to be able to maintain such a high level of debt 
sustainably. 
I think that Likely Loans shouldve realised that Mrs Bs total and escalating indebtedness 
showed that managing her credit accounts had got beyond her control and it seemed likely 
she was borrowing from one creditor to pay others. In the event, Likely Loans has since 
discovered that an outstanding loan with another provider of high cost credit was settled 
when it provided loan 2 to Mrs B  so I think that bears out my concerns about the way 
Mrs B was using credit.
Using part of this loan for debt consolidation isnt enough to make me think it was fairly 
provided or that it proved helpful in the event to Mrs B. I think the scale of her overall debt at 
that time compared to the lesser value of the loan would suggest that she would remain in 
serious financial trouble regardless. And I think thats borne out by the information that can 
be seen on a credit report Likely Loans obtained a couple of months after Mrs B took out 
loan 2. She may not have taken out any further borrowing, but it also shows that whilst Mrs B 
began to make inroads into paying some of her other debt, overall this loan increased her 
total indebtedness to around £19,533. So I think its fair to say that overall, this was 
detrimental to Mrs B. 
I've taken into account Likely Loans point that using its loan to repay a loan that cost Mrs B 
£225 each month potentially reduced her spending on credit each month. But this doesnt 
make me think this is a reason not to uphold her complaint. By my reckoning, Mrs B was still 
contractually committed to pay more than a third of her take home pay just on servicing debt 
 and more than this would be needed to repay her credit card debt in a meaningful way by 
making more than the minimum monthly repayments owed. 
I think it is evident that Mrs B still had to pay such a significant proportion of her income 
towards servicing her credit commitments it went beyond a level likely to be sustainable for 
her. 
The fact alone that Mrs B has managed her monthly repayments to the loan and repaid it 
early doesnt mean that she was able to do so sustainably or that this is a reason for me not 
to uphold her complaint that the loan was unaffordable and irresponsibly provided. For all the reasons I have explained, I am upholding Mrs Bs complaint that she should not 
have been given the loan.
I hope that settings things out as I've done is helpful and I invite Likely Loans to reconsider 
its position in view of what I've said in my provisional decision.
This means that as Mrs B has been further indebted with a high amount of interest on a loan 
that she shouldnt have been provided with she has lost out as a result of what Likely Loans 
did wrong. I think Likely Loans needs to take the following steps to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Likely Loans has confirmed it accepts my provisional decision. I have heard nothing further 
from Mrs B. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Likely Loans for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any 
further evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Likely Loans should pay any additional redress. 
Mrs B hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think Likely 
Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs B in any other way. 
So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs B to repay the capital amount that she borrowed 
when she took out loan 2, because she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has been charged extra for a loan that should not have been provided to her and 
thats unfair.
In line with this Services approach, Mrs B shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed. 
So, Likely Loans should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mrs B received as a result of having been given 
loan 2. The repayments Mrs B made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mrs B having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
Whilst its fair that Mrs Bs credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded about a loan that was unfairly provided. So Likely Loans should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file regarding loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Likely Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Likely Loans 
should give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint about loan 2 and OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as 
Likely Loans should take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman