DRN-3740179
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs S complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) unfairly declined their travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs S booked a trip abroad, departing on 5 December 2021. On September 2021, 
they took out an annual multi trip policy, underwritten by Mapfre.
Approximately one week before they were due to travel, Mr B and Mrs S were notified that 
the flights to their destination had been cancelled. They believe this was as a result of a rise 
in cases of Covid-19 in that country. No alternative travel arrangements were possible and 
so they had to cancel their trip. The flight costs were refunded by the airline, but Mr B and 
Mrs S didnt receive any refund for their accommodation and excursions booked.
A claim for those costs was made to Mapfre but this was rejected. Mapfre said that the 
cause of the cancellation was not one of the covered reasons listed under the policy. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr B and Mrs S made a complaint and brought the matter to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He found that the policy listed 
reasons for which it would provide cover for cancelled trips and that the cause of Mr B and 
Mrs Ss cancellation wasnt one of those listed reasons. He also looked at the rest of the 
policy wording but didnt find another section which would cover the situation Mr B and Mrs S 
found themselves in. 
Mr B and Mrs S disagreed with our investigator. As no agreement could be reached, the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr B and Mrs Ss complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
The policy includes a section titled Cancellation and cutting short your holiday, which 
provides cover if the policyholder has to cancel a trip. This section provides a list of reasons 
for which it will cover cancellation claims  these are as follows:
1. You die, become seriously ill or get injured.
2. A relative (see Definition on page 15), business associate, a person you have 
booked to travel with or a relative or friend living abroad, who you plan to stay with, 
dies, becomes seriously ill or gets injured.
3. You have to go to court to be a witness or be on a jury (but not as an expert witness) 
or you are put in quarantine.
4. There is an accident involving a vehicle you were planning to travel in, which 
happens within seven days before the date you planned to leave and means you 
cannot use the vehicle. This only applies to self-drive holidays.
5. You are a member of the armed forces, police, fire, nursing or ambulance services 
and you have to stay in your home area because of an emergency or you are posted 
overseas unexpectedly.
6. You being made redundant, as long as you had been working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum continuous period of two years, and that at the time of 
booking the trip or the date you purchased this insurance cover, you had no reason 
to believe that you would be made redundant. This cover would not apply if you are 
self-employed or accept voluntary redundancy.
7. It is necessary for you to stay in your home area after a fire, storm, flood or burglary 
at your home or place of business within 48 hours before the date you planned to 
leave. We will need a written statement from a relevant public authority confirming 
the reason and necessity.
8. It is necessary for you to return to your home area after a fire, storm, flood or burglary 
at your home or place of business. We will need a written statement from a relevant 
public authority confirming the reason and necessity.
9. If for reasons other than those outlined in Section A specific exclusion 18, you cannot 
commence travel to your intended destination due to the (FCDO) Foreign, 
Commonwealth & Development Office advice for your destination/location changing 
to as a minimum all but essential travel after the purchase of your policy or after the 
booking of any individual trip, whichever is the latter. This also applies to where such 
FCDO advice changes are announced after you have commenced your trip/holiday.
10. If you become pregnant after we have sold you this policy, and you will be more than 
32 weeks pregnant (or 24 weeks if you know you are having more than one baby) at 
the start of, or during, your trip. Or, your doctor advises that you are not fit to travel 
because you are suffering from complications of pregnancy or childbirth.
11. If you will be more than 32 weeks pregnant (or 24 weeks if you know you are having 
more than one baby) at the start of, or during, your trip and you still choose to travel, 
you may not claim for cutting short your trip unless as a result of the complications of 
pregnancy or childbirth.
Under Section F  Delayed departure or abandoning your trip there is cover if you suffer a 
delay in excess of 24 hours and decide to abandon the trip. It states the following:
If you have to abandon your outward trip as a result of a delay lasting more than 24
hours where the delay has been caused by a strike or industrial action, poor weather
conditions or a mechanical breakdown, we will pay for your unused travel and
accommodation expenses, including any local prepaid excursions, tours or activities,
up to the amount shown in the table of benefits after any amount that you can get
back is taken off.
Was the claim declined unfairly?
Mr B and Mrs Ss flights were cancelled by their airline  which they believe was as a result 
of an increase in Covid-19 cases. This led to them having to cancel their accommodation 
booking. The cancellation section includes a list of reasons that it will provide cover for in the 
event of a cancelled trip, as detailed above. But the cause of Mr B and Mrs Ss cancellation 
of their trip isnt one of the listed covered reasons. Im satisfied that there isnt cover under 
this section of the policy for the situation they found themselves in.Mr B and Mrs S have said they think the claim should be covered under the travel delay 
section, specifically the part which refers to the abandonment of the trip. This section 
provides cover if your transport from your international departure point is delayed for 24 
hours and at that point you decide to abandon the trip. 
Ive thought about this carefully and I appreciate their point of view here. However, as Mr B 
and Mrs Ss flight was cancelled prior to the departure date, I think it would be unreasonable 
to say the claim would fall within this part of the policy. But for completeness Ive reviewed 
the cover under this section and in order to claim, the cause of the abandonment still needs 
to be for one of the reasons listed. The cause of their airline cancelling the flights isnt one of 
the listed reasons. So, this section doesnt provide cover for their claim either.
Ive noted Mr B and Mrs Ss comments about the fact they purchased insurance in good faith 
and that, should an issue arise, they should be covered for unforeseen and extenuating 
circumstances. I understand their frustration, however, insurers are entitled to decide what 
risks they will accept (in return for the premium). The events they will and wont cover just 
need to be clearly set out in the terms and conditions of the policy. Taking everything into 
account, I dont think Mr B and Mrs Ss claim is covered under the policy terms and 
conditions, nor are there reasonable grounds upon which it would be fair for me to ask 
Mapfre to accept this claim. Im therefore not persuaded that Mapfre needs to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman