DRN-4224101
The complaint
Mr S complains that Watford Insurance Company Limited (Watford) declined his claim 
following the theft of his car, under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In February 2022 Mr Ss car was stolen. He reported it to the police, but the car wasnt 
recovered. Mr S made a claim to Watford, which it declined. He says it did so unfairly. Mr S 
describes how two potential buyers arranged to view the car the day before the theft. He 
says the potential buyers mustve changed the key blades, which allowed them to take the 
car. 
In its final complaint response Watford says it arranged for Mr S to be interviewed. He told it 
the buyer who took the test drive had possession of the main key. And that the other buyer 
requested to see the spare key, to ensure it was working. Watford arranged for both keys in 
Mr Ss possession to be analysed. One turned out to be for a different car. Watford says its 
likely the potential buyer swopped the spare key. This was then used to steal the car. 
Mr S disagreed with Watfords decision and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator declined his claim. She says Mr S referred, in both his statement to Watford and 
in his initial claim, to handing over his spare key. She didnt think Watford treated Mr S 
unfairly when relying on its policy terms to decline his claim. This is because the policy terms 
say that loss due to deception, by someone claiming to be a buyer, is excluded from cover.   
Mr S disagreed. He provided a statement dated in May 2023. In this statement he says he 
didnt give the spare key to either of the buyers. Rather he operated it himself when 
requested. Our investigator didnt change her mind, so Mr S asked for an ombudsman to 
consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Im sorry his car was stolen and for the 
financial loss hes suffered as a result. But I dont think Watford treated him unfairly. Let me 
explain. 
Ive read the statement Mr S gave to Watford after the theft of his car. In this he says:
The last journey in my car was on Thursday 17th February 2022 was when I accompanied a 
potential buyer on a test drive during the late evening.
The potential buyer arrived at about 2200 hours and he was accompanied by his brother in 
law. He told me that he was insured to drive his own car so I assumed that he was fully 
insured to drive my car on a test drive. He did not show me any insurance documents. 
I accompanied the male who was driving my car on the test drive for up to one hour, whilst 
the other male remained outside my address. We then returned to my home address and my 
car was parked outside The male who had test driven my car was holding the vehicle key 
unit whilst we were outside my address. The other male then asked to see the spare key and 
told me that if it was not used for a long time, it could fail to work and he asked me to press 
the button on the spare key to ensure that it locked the car and then unlocked the doors,
which it did.
The two males then asked to check the engine under [sic] bonnet and they then looked over 
the vehicle once again. The front passenger window did not close properly after one of the 
males opened it, so the same male then used the key unit, pressed the buttons making it 
beep and flash and the window eventually closed correctly.
They stated that they would bring their wife/sister to collect the vehicle and arrange a bank 
transfer for the purchase and promised to pay a deposit of £500 by a bank transfer before 
they left.
I was then told that there was an issue with their banking system and were unable to transfer 
the £500, so they left to collect the female. They called me soon after to say that their car 
had broken down and that their car had to be recovered so they would return the following 
day to collect the [car].
I then locked the vehicle using the key unit at about 2330  0000 hours.
I got up at about 0700 hours, looked outside my address and I saw that my car had been 
stolen.
Ive listened to the call when Mr S first reported the theft of his car to Watford. In this he 
explains to its agent that he thinks the potential buyers made a copy of his car key. The 
information he provided corresponds with that set out in the statement above. 
Ive read the statement provided by Mr Ss legal representative. This was provided in May 
2023. It says Mr Ss first language isnt English and he wasnt offered an interpreter at the 
time he gave a statement to Watford. The statement says Mr S took all necessary 
precautions to protect his car, and it hasnt been shown that the prospective buyers stole it. 
The statement says Watford is unfairly penalising Mr S as anyone could be deceived by 
these sophisticated tactics. The representative says Watford shouldnt be able to rely on the 
exclusion it has to decline this claim. 
In response to our investigators view, Mr Ss representative emailed our service to say Mr S 
hadnt given his spare key to one of the prospective buyers, as shed said. Rather he had 
pressed the button on the spare key, when asked to do so. This was to demonstrate that it 
worked. The representative says there is no acceptance of Mr S passing the spare key to 
one of the prospective buyers. 
Ive read the report provided by key analyst who looked at both key fobs Mr S sent to 
Watford after the theft. Ive copied the relevant excerpts below:
The two keys handed in appear to be genuine [manufacturer] remote keys of the correct 
type but for two different cars. The keys were sent to [manufacturer] in Germany to be tested 
on factory equipment. The report showed the key now marked no.1 was correct for the 
carKey no.2 was for another car with the [vehicle identification number for a different car]. The emergency blades were both correct for the car in question so somebody has 
deliberately swopped blades, probably to use the second key to steal the carKey no.1 was 
correct electronically and the emergency blade was correct; the key had been used 8,489 
times. [Manufacturer] said there have been no changes to locks or EIS (Electronic Ignition 
Switch) or other keys issued by them. The second OE key is currently unaccounted for.    
   
The key expert concluded his report to say:
Given the excellent security system on this car, in my opinion the three possible theft 
methods are that it could be uplifted or towed away, the security system overcome as 
outlined or it could have been driven using a correctly programmed key. [The manufacturer] 
say that to add a key the car would need to be connected to one of their [name of system] 
diagnostic systems in a dealership and registered as present and a key ordered from them.  
Ive thought very carefully about the circumstances of Mr Ss loss. Its not disputed that he 
accompanied a prospective buyer on a test drive around 10pm the night before his car was 
stolen. Mr S reports that the theft occurred before 7am the next morning. So, the theft 
occurred a relatively short period after the prospective buyers had left.  
The analysis of the spare key Mr S sent to Watford shows it wasnt registered to his car. The 
emergency blade was for his car, but the electronic fob component wasnt. Mr S hasnt been 
able to account for why he doesnt have a spare fob registered for his car. 
I note what Mr S says in his statement in May 2023, that he didnt give the spare key to one 
of the potential buyers. However, this statement was provided over a year after the theft 
occurred. I think its reasonable that Watford relies on the information provided closer to the 
time of the claim.   
Ive listened to the first notification of loss call. I acknowledge what Mr Ss representative 
says about his language skills. But I dont think it was evident during this call that Mr S 
struggled to understand English. He clearly understood what he was being asked by 
Watfords agent and was able to provide clear responses. However, I note that Mr S didnt 
say hed handed the spare key to the prospective buyer during this call. The statement from 
February 2022 doesnt say this either.  
In both this statement and the first notification of loss call Mr S does refer to one of the 
prospective buyers using a key fob to close a window. This was after the window had failed 
to close properly. He recalls the fob flashing and beeping. 
Having considered all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I think that its more 
likely than not that Mr Ss car was stolen using his spare key fob. I think Watfords view is 
reasonable that the prospective buyers were able to switch the genuine fob. And this likely 
happened whilst the prospective buyers were viewing the car. In his statement Mr S says he 
demonstrated his spare fob worked. The fact that the spare key fob he provided to Watford 
isnt registered to his car, supports it having been switched by the prospective buyers. 
It's suspicious that the men agreed to buy the car but didnt provide a deposit as promised 
and made excuses why this couldnt be paid. They also made excuses as to why they would 
need to collect the car the next morning. After the car had been stolen there was no further 
contact and no answer on the mobile number the prospective buyers had previously used. 
Based on all this, I think Watfords view is reasonable that its likely these men stole, or were 
involved in the theft of Mr Ss car. 
Mr Ss policy terms under section two, Damage or loss by Fire or Theft say:What is not covered
Loss of or damage to Your Car where possession of it is gained by deception by someone 
who claims to be a buyer or agent.
Based on this evidence I dont think Watford treated Mr S unfairly when relying on its policy 
exclusion to decline his claim. So, although Im sorry Mr Ss car was stolen, I cant 
reasonably ask Watford to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman