DRN-3546378
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained that the broker who arranged their remortgage, Your Mortgage 
People Limited (YMPL) wanted them to pay a large fee once the mortgage was set up. But 
Mr and Mrs P said YMPL had told them there wouldnt be large fees to pay.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P arranged their remortgage through YMPL. They said that it had promised they 
wouldnt have to pay any large fees when this was set up. It had told them that a broker fee 
of £695, which it charges, would be added to their mortgage so they didnt have to find this 
money now. 
But Mr and Mrs P said then, once the mortgage was set up, YMPL started asking for this 
money, and it was still chasing them now. 
YMPL said that it had always been clear that this fee of £695 would be payable once the 
mortgage was completed. It wanted Mr and Mrs P to pay, although it put recovery action on 
hold until our service reached a view on this. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said YMPL had always 
been clear that there was a fee, and it wouldnt be fair to ask it to waive that cost. But he said 
that YMPL shouldnt charge more than the fee of £695 now.
Mr and Mrs P repeated that YMPL had promised they wouldnt have a big bill once the 
mortgage was set up. They wanted this case to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
YMPL told Mr and Mrs P that this fee could be added to their mortgage. So they wouldnt just 
borrow the money for their home, theyd also borrow a small amount more, £695, to pay 
YMPLs broker fee. 
Ive checked the mortgage documentation, and that is what YMPL has done. 
But YMPL didnt get this money straight from the lender. Instead, it emailed Mr and Mrs P to 
tell them that once they had completed their mortgage, they would be getting a cheque from 
their solicitors. That cheque would include the £695 that they owed to YMPL. 
YMPL has checked with the couples solicitor. The solicitor confirms that a cheque for 
£1,446.05 was sent to them on 26 June 2021. That included surplus money from completion, 
but it also included the £695 that Mr and Mrs P had borrowed to pay YMPL. 
I think it may not have been entirely clear to Mr and Mrs P, from the initial documents, how 
this would work. But I do think the emails that YMPL sent Mr and Mrs P did explain that 
theyd be getting a cheque, and part of that was to cover the broker fees. So I dont think that 
YMPL did anything wrong when it then asked Mr and Mrs P to pay this money. 
Mr and Mrs P said that YMPL was now asking them to pay more than this  the amount it 
was asking for had gone up to £743. It does appear to me that Mr and Mrs P have been 
confused about the payment at some points, so I dont think it would be fair if YMPL were to 
charge interest or additional fees, on top of the £695, in respect of time that Mr and Mrs P 
have spent making and pursuing this complaint. But I dont think its wrong for YMPL to ask 
Mr and Mrs P to pay this now.
I know that Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed, but I dont think YMPL has to do more than 
that.
My final decision
My final decision is that Your Mortgage People Limited should not charge Mr and Mrs P any 
fees or interest on the outstanding brokerage fee of £695, for any period up to the date of my 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman