DRN-2352756
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited incorrectly settled a 
claim against his commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W was involved in an accident when he was hit in the rear by another car. Mr W didnt 
think he was at fault for the accident, as hed been hit from behind. The other driver said    
Mr W had changed lanes, cutting across them.
Markerstudy suggested that the claim be settled as 50/50 with both drivers sharing some of 
the fault. However, the other drivers insurer started legal action, so Markerstudy passed the 
claim to its solicitors. After talking to Mr W, the solicitors didnt think Markerstudy would be 
able to defend the claim in court. So, Markerstudy settled the claim with Mr W at fault.
Mr W complained to Markerstudy. He said it had given him conflicting advice about how the 
claim would be settled and he still didnt think it was his fault. He also said Markerstudy 
hadnt taken his witness into account and if it had done that would have supported his 
account of what happened. 
Markerstudy said there had been confusion as it thought the passenger in his car was a 
passenger in the other drivers car. So, it didnt pursue a witness statement from them. But it 
still thought it had settled the claim correctly. 
As he remained unhappy with Markerstudys response Mr W brought his complaint to our 
service. He said his comments to the solicitor had been taken out of context. He was also 
unhappy that the claim being settled meant his no claims discount (NCD) was reduced and 
had increased his premiums. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
Markerstudy was entitled to rely on the legal advice from its solicitors when settling the 
claim. Mr W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not for me to decide whos at fault for an accident, as thats the role of the court. Instead I 
look to see that an insurer (in this case Markerstudy) has made a fair and reasonable 
decision, thats in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy give Markerstudy the right to defend or settle a 
claim as it sees fit. This means Markerstudy might make a decision Mr W disagrees with, but 
the policy allows it to do so. Again, I look to see if its done so fairly and reasonably. 
I can see from Markerstudys notes that Markerstudy suggested to Mr W that it would try to 
settle the claim as 50/50. It tried to do this, until the other partys insurer started legal 
proceedings. So, while it may have given Mr W some inconsistent information, I think this 
was due to what it thought might happen. 
Unfortunately, due to the time thats passed the call between Markerstudys solicitor and Mr 
W isnt available. So, Ive looked at the solicitors notes of the call. The notes say that at first, 
Mr W said he wasnt sure if hed changed lanes, although he then said he was established in 
his lane. The notes also say that Mr W said he couldnt be bothered to go to court. As this 
call note was written at the time of the call, I think the note is likely to be accurate. 
Given that Markerstudy received a legal opinion that it would be unlikely to be able to defend 
the claim in court, I think Markerstudy was entitled to rely on that to settle the claim against 
Mr W. 
I can understand Mr Ws frustration that Markerstudy didnt obtain a witness statement from 
his passenger. However, even if this witness statement supported his version of what 
happened, as he said, I think its unlikely to have made a difference. I say that because the 
solicitors advice was based on Mr Ws account of what happened and that he didnt want to 
go to court. Markerstudy also said the passenger wouldnt have been considered an 
independent witness because theyd made a claim following the incident.
As Mr W was held at fault for the incident his NCD was impacted and this affected his 
premiums. As I think Markerstudy was reasonable in settling the claim, I dont hold 
Markerstudy responsible for the impact this had on Mr W. 
For the reasons set out above, Im not going to uphold this complaint, as I think Markerstudy 
made a fair and reasonable decision that was in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman