DRN-2256060
The complaint
Ms B complains Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros didnt issue her with a 
Certificate of Structural Adequacy (CSA) after it undertook subsidence repairs on her house.
What happened
Ms B owns a property insured by an Ocaso buildings insurance policy. In 2014, the property 
experienced subsidence and Ms B made a claim on the policy. The claim was accepted, a 
period of monitoring was undertaken followed by some remedial works which were 
completed in 2016.
Some years later, the property developed a leak which Ms B said was in the same place as 
the damage under the earlier claim. She was concerned that the remedial work might not 
have been undertaken correctly. She said that she had asked Ocaso for a CSA but it hadnt 
provided it.
Ocaso considered the new damage and following an investigation concluded that it wasnt 
caused by subsidence but by thermal movement, age and general weathering which wasnt 
covered by the policy. So it declined the claim.
Ms B remained unhappy about the lack of a CSA and said it was causing her problems 
obtaining new insurance after Ocaso declined to renew her policy. So, she brought her 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at the evidence and was satisfied the new damage wasnt caused by 
subsidence and therefore Ocaso didnt need to pay the claim. But he did say Ocaso should 
have issued a CSA following the completion of the works and because it didnt, it had 
caused Ms B inconvenience and should pay her £250. He said it also now needed to issue 
one or arrange for an engineer to undertake a survey confirming the works were still 
adequate.
Ocaso and Ms B didnt agree with the outcome and asked for an ombudsman to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the investigators conclusions, Ms B accepted we werent going to tell Ocaso to 
pay the claim, based on the evidence available. So I dont need to consider this aspect of the 
complaint in my decision. But Ms B remained unhappy Ocaso hadnt issued her with a CSA 
so this is where Ive focused my investigation. 
When undertaking remedial work following a claim, wed expect an insurers repairs to be 
effective and lasting. And its common practice for them to be backed by a CSA which 
confirms the cause of the subsidence, and what repairs were undertaken to address it. This 
will often be accompanied by a copy of the schedule of work
The purpose of a CSA is, in essence, to give reassurance that the subsidence problem has 
been dealt with properly. A CSA is often required if the home owner is selling the property, 
seeking to re-mortgage it or arranging insurance with a new provider. The absence of a CSA 
will often make these processes more complicated.
Ms Bs told us she asked the loss adjuster who dealt with the original claim on behalf of 
Ocaso that shed want a CSA once the work was completed. She was aware of this 
requirement as one of her relatives had experienced problems with subsidence before and 
was given a CSA once the work was done. 
Ocaso says it has no record of the request for a CSA and unfortunately, the loss adjuster 
she said she spoke to is no longer available for comment. Whilst I acknowledge what Ocaso 
said, I consider Ms Bs testimony to be plausible and persuasive. But even if she hadnt 
asked for the CSA, I dont consider it reasonable for Ocaso to expect Ms B to know that she 
would need it - and then know to ask for it - when it is the expert in insurance claims and 
remedial works.
Ocaso says its not willing to issue a CSA now due to the amount of time thats gone past 
since the repairs were completed. Its said it will issue a letter confirming the repairs that 
were completed but Ms B says only a CSA will allow her to obtain the insurance she wants. 
So, Ocaso has placed Ms B in a very difficult position here  its not willing to renew cover 
but hasnt supplied the document Ms B needs to obtain similar cover from an alternative 
insurer. I dont consider that to be fair or reasonable.
Putting things right
To address this, I think Ocaso should issue the CSA it should have provided at the time of 
the remedial work. Alternatively, if it maintains that it cant do this, then it should arrange and 
pay for an appropriately qualified engineer to undertake an inspection of the work carried out 
in 2016 and provide a report that confirms if the works are still adequate. It should also 
include comments on the cause of the subsidence and the works carried out to resolve the 
issue.  
Ms B has used an insurance broker to try to find an alternative policy but this has proved 
very difficult and her broker hasnt found a policy that will include subsidence cover in the 
absence of a CSA from the original claim. As she approached the renewal date of the policy 
with no prospect of obtaining appropriate cover, I understand why this would have been 
stressful for her. And because of this I think Ocaso should pay Ms B £250 in recognition of 
the distress and inconvenience its caused her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Ocaso SA, Compania de 
Seguros y Reaseguros to 
issue a Certificate of Structural Adequacy in connection with the works it completed 
in 2016 or 
arrange and pay for an appropriately qualified engineer to undertake an inspection of 
the work carried out in 2016 and provide a report that confirms if the works are still 
adequate. It should also include comments on the cause of the subsidence and the 
works carried out to resolve the issue at that time.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman