DRN-3775261
The complaint
Mrs J has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited collected the premium for a 
home contents insurance policy before the start date of the policy without telling her. 
What happened
Mrs Js home contents insurance policy was due for renewal with her previous insurer on 1 
August 2022. On shopping around she contacted Admiral by phone on 18 July 2022 to buy a 
policy.
Admiral set up the policy as requested with a start date of 1 August 2022. It collected the 
yearly premium of £43.97 on the same day. 
On 25 July 2022 Mrs J called Admiral. She was very unhappy that the premium had been 
collected before the start date of 1 August 2022. Unfortunately Admirals systems were not 
working and so the agent said he would need to call Mrs J back. He called Mrs J back a 
couple of days later but wasnt able to speak with her. 
Mrs J raised a complaint. Admiral said it was sorry it was unable to assist her on 25 July 
2022. But it had listened to the key call and found the agent had asked Mrs J if she was 
happy for the payment to be applied for on the day she called, which she had agreed. So it 
didnt uphold her complaint. 
Mrs J asked us to look at things for her. Our Investigator didnt find Admiral had acted 
unreasonably. Mrs J didnt agree. She says if Admiral had told her it intended to collect the 
payment that day - and not on the due date of 1 August 2022 - she would have questioned 
that. She doesnt believe Admiral was clear enough. 
Weve sent Mrs J a copy of the key call recording. After listening to the call, Mrs J says the 
agent said the start date of the policy would be 1 August 2021. She says at no point did the 
agent say the payment would be taken from her account on 18 July 2021. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The start date of the policy isnt in dispute. This was 1 August 2021. So Mrs J didnt pay for 
overlapping cover from her previous insurer. 
Ive listened to the key call recording on 18 July 2021. At 45 minutes 45 seconds the agent 
asked Mrs J; 
Do you have any questions before I look to take the payment now? 
Mrs J said; no and so the agent proceeded to ask for Mrs Js bank card details to collect 
the payment. 
At 49 mins the agent said; So that will be £43.97 - are you happy for me to apply for that 
now? Mrs J replied; yes ok. 
So I cant say that Admiral didnt tell Mrs J when it would collect the payment during the call. 
The agent checked with Mrs J twice that it was acceptable to collect the payment on the day 
of the call. Mrs J agreed.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs J. But this means Im not upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman