DRN-3516526
The complaint
Mr J has complained through a representative that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118
118 Money (118 118) mis-sold him loans he couldnt afford to repay. Mr J says that he was
taking out new loans in order to cover repayments to other loans that he had.
What happened
Mr J had two loans from 118 118 and a summary of the lending can be found in the table
below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(month)monthly 
repayment
1 £2,500.00 17/08/2018 04/05/2019 24 £198.05
2 £2,000.00 20/08/2019 13/02/2020 12 £205.20
118 118 issued its final response letter about Mr Js complaint on 31 December 2021 and it
concluded it had made reasonable decisions to lend.
118 118 explained it took details of Mr Js income and expenditure as well as carrying out a
credit check. It went on to say it, reviewed not only by our system and assessed against
our scorecard but also, where required, manually reviewed by our Underwriting team. We
use industry standard verification checks to validate the information provided by the
applicant.
Mr Js complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators and he didnt uphold it. He said
118 118 lent responsibly because there were no signs that Mr J was having or likely to be
having financial difficulties. Mr J also had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford 
the repayments, he was committed to making.
118 118 didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment.
Mr Js representative didnt agree with the outcome. In response it said (in summary):
The credit report generated before loan 1 shows concerning information such as 
missed payments and defaults.
118 118 didnt verify Mr Js finances.
Mr Js representative is concerned that he was able to settle loan 1 with a large lump 
sum payment and it was also concerned about the increase in monthly cost for loan 
2. The representative says this suggests a reliance on short term loans.
Had 118 118 money looked at Mr Js bank statements it wouldve seen a number of 
betting transactions.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me. I then proceeded to 
issue a provisional decision where I explained why I was intending to uphold Mr Js 
complaint in full. 
A copy my provisional findings follow this in italics and form part of this final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did 118 118 complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr J 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr J would have been able to do so?
Did 118 118 act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Js ability to make the repayments under the loan
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so 118 118 had to think about whether repaying
the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to ensure that
making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr J undue difficulty or significant
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr J. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan applications.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
Loan 1
For this loan, 118 118 asked Mr J for his monthly income, which he declared as being
£2,200 and Mr J declared that he had outgoings of £1,430 per month. 118 118 was therefore
aware that Mr J had around £770 per month in disposable income in which to make the loan
repayment of £198.05.
Based solely on the information Mr J provided about his income and expenditure 118 118
couldve reasonably believed he would be in a position to afford the repayments he was
committed to making.
118 118 also carried out a credit search and its provided the full results to the Financial
Ombudsman. The results provided by 118 118 do suggest that Mr J was having some
financial difficulties.
Firstly, 118 118 knew that Mr J had at least 13 active credit accounts of which three had 
been opened within the previous six months. He also had just over £10,000 worth of debt 
which was around 69% of the total credit available to Mr J.
118 118 was also aware that there were at least 2 defaults on his credit file, one relating to a
communication contract (likely a mobile phone) and the other was a bank account. However,
these defaults were added to the credit file around two years before this loan was approved.
While, this information is concerning, these defaults, in my view dont show that Mr J was
having immediate problems or would likely impact his ability to make the loan repayments.
However, there was some other concerning information about missed payments. 118 118 
was put on notice that Mr J was likely having immediate financial difficulties. I say this, 
because one credit account had by June 2018  so two months before the loan was 
approved  been three repayments in arrears. Another account had also been in arrears 
earlier on in the year.
Knowing this information and the fact that Mr J was committing to pay 118 118 for two years
ought to, in my view, have led 118 118 to carry out further checks. I dont think the checks it
carried out before this loan were proportionate because it was on notice that Mr J was likely
having immediate repayment problems.
I do think, given what 118 118 knew at the time that it shouldve tried to have a complete
understanding of Mr Js financial position, perhaps by obtaining copies of Mr Js bank
statements.
Mr Js representative has provided the Financial Ombudsman with bank statements in the
months leading up to this loan being approved. So, I dont consider it unreasonable to view
these to see what 118 118 may have discovered about Mr Js finances by carrying out what I
consider to be a proportionate check.
It seems that the income that Mr J declared to 118 118 was fairly accurate. However, there
are a number of gambling transactions each month, indeed, adding up what Mr J spent in
the month before this loan was approved, he actually spent almost his entire income on such
transactions.
This left an insufficient amount of money to be able to firstly pay his living costs which I cansee as well as to service the debts that he already had. Let alone have enough money to
repay 118 118.
Overall, I think if 118 118 had carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered
that Mr J couldnt afford the commitments, he was due to make. As this is the case, Im
intending to uphold Mr Js complaint about this loan.
Loan 2
Mr J had repaid loan 1 considerably earlier than 118 118 was expecting. He then returned
for a slight smaller loan - £2,000 but the monthly repayment actually increased because the
loan was to be repaid over a shorter time period  12 months compared to two years.
Ive also considered that there was a break of three months between loan 1 being repaid
and loan 2 being granted. But, given the amount borrowed, the term and what Mr J declared
about his financial situation at the time, the gap hasnt led me to change my view of the
complaint.
118 118 carried out the same sort of checks for this loan as it did for loan 1. It asked for
Mr Js income  which he declared to be £2,265 and Mr J declared that he had £1,284 a
month of outgoings.
The credit file information 118 118 obtained has once again been provided. It was again put 
on notice about the two defaults in 2016 and while Mr Js debt had decreased slightly, the 
percentage of credit he was using had actually increased from 69% to 81%. Still
under the limit, but a sizeable increase within the last year.
118 118 was also given information to show that Mr J in 2019 had opened some sizeable
loan accounts. He had in January 2019 taken on a significant hire purchase contract and in
the month before this loan was approved, he had taken on another loan of nearly £3,000.
Finally, the credit file data suggests that Mr J was close to his overdraft limit on his current
account.
Given, Mr J had taken some significant loans, and indeed, one quite large loan in the
months before this one was approved like loan 1 I think this ought to have been enough to
have prompted 118 118 to have carried out a full review of Mr Js finances.
Once again, Mr Js representative has provided copies of his bank statements in the months
before this loan was approved and I also dont think it is unreasonable to review these.
In the month the loan was approved Mr J income was close to half what he had declared to
118 118. He received around £1,200. And just on his direct debt payments alone these
came to over £720 a month before any of his living costs were considering such as food and
petrol or the payment to 118 118.
I appreciate, 118 118 wouldnt have known this, but in the following month after the loan was
approved it seems that Mr J received no salary at all. So, this does suggest that the smaller
income in August 2019 wasnt a one off but a sign that Mr J had ongoing financial problems.
While, I can still see gambling transactions in the months leading up to this loan being
approved they arent the same value of frequency as when loan 1 was advanced. However,
these transactions adding together with Mr Js smaller income and his significant direct debt
payments has also led me to conclude this loan wasnt affordable for Mr J either.
Im therefore also intending to uphold Mr Js complaint about this loan as well and Iveoutlined below what 118 118 needs to do in order to put things right for Mr J.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Mr J (and his representative) as well as 118 118 were asked to provide anything further 
for consideration as soon as possible but no later than 6 June 2022. 
Neither Mr J nor his representative responded to the provisional decision. 
118 118 confirmed that it accepted the findings in the provisional decision. 
The deadline for a response has now passed, and I see no reason not to issue the final 
decision for this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new comments, information or evidence have been provided I see no reason to depart 
from the findings that I reached in the provisional decision. 
I still think 118 118s checks didnt go far enough before these loans were approved. Had it 
carried out a proportionate check, such as reviewing Mr Js bank statements it wouldve 
seen that he couldnt afford to take on either of his loans. Im therefore upholding Mr Js 
complaint, in full. 
Ive set out below what 118 118 needs to do in order to put things right for Mr J. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr J to repay the principal amount that he borrowed in
respect of Loans 1 and 2, because hes had the benefit of that lending. But as I have
concluded 118 118 shouldnt have provided this loan, it should look to remove the interest
and fees from the amounts due under the loan agreement.
118 118 should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to both loans;
treat any payments made by Mr J as payments towards the capital amount borrowed;
If and when Mr J has paid more than the capital, then any overpayments should be 
refunded to him with 8%* simple interest from the date the overpayments arose to 
the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about these loans from Mr Js credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 should
give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Js 
complaint.
Madison CF UK Limited should put things right for Mr J as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman