DRN-2362887
The complaint
Ms R complains, on behalf of the estate of Mr B, about the way that Sesame Limited 
(Sesame) handled Mr Bs life assurance application. In particular, that it failed to disclose 
material facts to the insurer and failed to ask clear and specific questions when completing 
the application form on his behalf. 
For ease, in this decision I will refer to Ms R when talking about the estate of Mr B and/or its 
representatives.
What happened
In January 2015 Mr B applied for a 20-year life assurance policy with an insurer 
(company L) via a broker, Better Protection Ltd, which is a representative of Sesame. 
For ease, in this decision Ill talk about the actions of Sesame.
Mr B completed an internet search for life assurance policies and then had several 
telephone conversations with Sesame. In these calls Mr B discussed his requirements and 
he decided to go with company L. He answered questions relating to the online application 
which Sesame completed on Mr Bs behalf. Mr Bs application was accepted and went live 
the same day.
Sadly, in December 2018 Mr B was given a terminal diagnosis and in April 2019 he passed 
away. A claim was made on the policy.
To help its assessment of the claim, company L requested information from Mr Bs GP. 
After reviewing the evidence received, it became aware that Mr B had hepatitis at the time 
hed applied for the policy. Company L said had it known the details of Mr Bs illness, it 
wouldnt have offered Mr B cover. Company L felt Mr B had misrepresented his 
circumstances by failing to share this information in the application form when he applied for 
the policy. And so, it declined the claim, avoided the policy (cancelled the policy from the 
start) and refunded the premiums.
The question company L thought Mr B answered incorrectly at the point he confirmed his 
details is listed here, Mr Bs answers are in bold:
Health  Last 2 years
When answering the following questions, if youre unsure whether to tell us about a medical 
condition, please tell us anyway. 
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 2 years 
have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
Any condition affecting your gall bladder, liver pancreas, for example hepatitis, fatty 
liver? Yes
Please select from this list. Only select other when you cannot find a match.
Other
Name of the medical condition or illness
Liver Function Test (LFT)
Were these tests or investigations needed for, or because of, something that 
you have already told us about on the application?
No
Have all the tests and investigations been done?
Yes
Was this a routine blood test or part of a routine company or insurance 
medical or well person check?
Yes
Were you told you should attend follow up or that you should receive 
treatment because of any of the results?
No
Have you another condition or illness to tell us about under this heading?
No
Company L said Mr B should have disclosed his hepatitis here, including the fact hed had 
blood tests relating to this recently. It did not think these tests were routine. It noted Mr B had 
spoken with his GP the day before the application was completed about these test results 
and next steps in managing his hepatitis. 
Ms R didnt think this was fair and she complained. Ms R said Mr B had told Sesame about 
his hepatitis. Sesame didnt uphold this complaint, so Ms R brought her complaint to our 
service.
Ms R told us Mr B was given poor advice by Sesame and she noted that it didnt ask Mr B 
the full questions contained within the application. In particular she said:
Mr B was told by Sesame he didnt need to disclose his hepatitis unless hed been 
medically advised to see his doctor within the last two years  which he hadnt. 
Sesame didnt ask Mr B all of the questions on the application form.
Sesame answered yes to a question Mr B had answered no to.
Sesame selected other and not hepatitis from the list available under the question 
Please select from this list. Only select other when you cannot find a match. 
Sesame told us Mr B had given it inaccurate information about the nature of the tests hed 
had within the last two years. As such it felt Mr B was ultimately responsible for any 
misrepresentation.
After reviewing all the circumstances, our investigator didnt think Sesame needed to do 
anything further here. Ms R didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ms R also has concerns over the decision made by company L. However, these 
concerns are being dealt with separately and so I wont be commenting on them here. In this 
decision I will only consider the actions of Sesame.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those I consider 
to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of 
the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Ms R feels that there were failings by Sesame in the application process which were 
ultimately responsible for any misrepresentation that may have been made. Following his telephone calls with Sesame, Mr B was provided with a copy of the application 
and his answers by company L. He was also advised to check this, so I do think he was 
given an opportunity to correct any errors Sesames involvement may have caused. 
But I think Ms Rs point here is that Mr B relied on the information provided to him by 
Sesame, who are the professionals in this area, when understanding what he should and 
should not disclose. So, Ive reviewed Sesames actions to understand if any mistakes were 
made, and if so, whether I think these ultimately impacted how Mr B understood he should 
answer company Ls questions. 
Ive only been able to listen to two of Mr Bs calls with Sesame. Sesame wasnt able to 
provide the initial call between Mr B and its advisor due to an error on its systems. From the 
content of the other calls, its clear that as part of the initial call Mr B answered medical 
questions and disclosed his hepatitis to Sesame. The Sesame advisor then went away to 
seek advice from company L about the application and what would need to be disclosed. 
I have been unable to listen to this call either as neither company L nor Sesame have been 
able to locate this.
During the first of the two calls that I do have between Mr B and Sesame, Mr B was told that 
if it had been over two years since he was medically advised to see his doctor regarding his 
hepatitis, then company L wouldnt require it to be included on the application whatsoever. 
Mr B confirmed he categorically had not been advised to see his doctor for anything related 
to hepatitis in the last two years. And given his GP notes show only a telephone consultation 
with his doctor regarding tests results, Ive seen no evidence Mr B was advised to see a 
doctor for his hepatitis. 
I agree with Ms R that what Sesame told Mr B here doesnt appear to be in line with the 
application question. The question doesnt ask if Mr B has been medically advised to see a 
doctor, but whether he has seen a doctor, nurse or other health care professional. 
In the absence of any call recording or notes to support what Sesame said here, I think it 
unlikely that company L would have said it needed different information than that requested 
in the policy application form. So, I do think its likely this was an error on Sesames part.
The conversation then continues, seemingly in reference to tests already disclosed to 
Sesame, and the advisor tells Mr B that company L sees the test as him just going in for a 
well person check, just to make sure that hes in good health. Mr B then confirms this was 
what it was. The advisor states that they will need to include on the application that hes had 
a liver function test done or blood test done. But that company L isnt worried about this if its 
solely for Mr Bs own wellbeing and not something hes been advised to have. Mr B confirms 
absolutely not and that it was purely for wellbeing check.
So, Sesame told Mr B that the tests would be seen by company L as part of a well person 
check, and I think it advised Mr B that this is how his tests should be seen. But within both 
this call and the next the Sesame advisor describes their understanding of Mr Bs tests as: 
Mr B has not been advised to have these tests.
Mr B referred himself for the tests.
Nothing was flagged up from the tests to cause any concern.
Mr B did not go back for further follow ups or check-ups.
Mr B then confirmed this understanding within the calls. 
But the medical evidence Ive seen indicates this isnt accurate. Records show Mr B had 
three blood tests across November and December 2014. The reason for the first blood test is noted as Hep C pos, RUQ pain  that Mr B had hepatitis and was experiencing pain in 
the right upper quadrant of the abdomen (pain commonly associated with hepatitis). 
The notes on the second test suggest this was a LFT because Mr B had hepatitis. The third 
test was a LFT and is noted as a repeat test. And company Ls medical underwriters 
assessment of the results advise Mr Bs LFT levels were raised. Mr Bs GP then called him 
the day before his application, to discuss the fact his LFT results had improved and they had 
a discussion about next steps in relation to his hepatitis.
I dont think tests prompted by abdominal pain can reasonably be considered routine. 
Whilst I appreciate that Ms R has suggested RUQ pain can have causes other than 
hepatitis, in the absence of any evidence to suggest an alternative cause, I do think its likely 
this was linked to the hepatitis. I also dont think its fair to say no follow ups were needed 
when a repeat test was ordered and a conversation about next steps was had with his 
doctor. Mr B had also clearly been advised to have LFTs connected with his hepatitis, so 
whilst they may have been routine for him, I dont think its reasonable to suggest he wasnt 
advised to have them. 
I think the evidence indicates Mr B didnt provide Sesame with an accurate picture of the 
nature of the tests hed had. So, whilst I think Sesame provided incorrect advice here about 
what company L needed to know, I also think Mr B provided Sesame with inaccurate 
information.  
In the second call, when Sesame went through the application questions with Mr B, it still 
didnt ask this question accurately - asking Mr B if hed been advised see a doctor, nurse or 
other health professional for any condition affecting your gall bladder, liver pancreas, for 
example hepatitis, fatty liver? In response to this Mr B said no. I appreciate Mr Bs answer 
at this stage was based on the inaccurate question Sesame had asked. But Sesame then 
told Mr B he needed to declare the LFT here, and the advisor then changed Mr Bs answer 
to yes. So, I think Sesame did use its knowledge of Mr Bs health to try to ensure his 
answers were accurate here. And based on the information Mr B had given Sesame about 
his health, I dont think that the answers submitted by Sesame in the application were wrong.
I also dont think the evidence suggests its likely Mr B would have disclosed his hepatitis 
here if Sesame hadnt made this error in explaining what company L wanted to know. 
Thats because Mr B didnt give Sesame full details of his tests and how they were linked to 
his hepatitis. Whilst he was honest about his condition, he wasnt forthcoming with relevant 
information about it. So, I dont think he took reasonable care to be clear about his medical 
history with his broker. Mr B also didnt amend this answer after he reviewed the application 
questions to confirm his details with company L. 
I agree with Ms R that Sesame then didnt select hepatitis from the drop-down list  a list 
Mr B didnt have access to. But given Mr B confirmed to Sesame his test was something 
hed asked for, I think its understandable that Sesame didnt link the LFT to his hepatitis in 
the application  Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr B told the advisor the two were directly 
linked. And I think Sesame was trying to ensure Mr B didnt disclose the hepatitis if 
company L hadnt asked a question that required him to - an insurer can only expect a 
consumer to disclose information its asked clear and specific questions about. The fact 
Sesame sought advice from company L about the application question adds weight to this. 
Having listened to the call, I dont think Sesame asked Mr B all of the other questions on the 
application form either. For example, Mr B wasnt asked Have you another condition or 
illness to tell us about under this heading? So, I think Sesame clearly made further errors. 
I can see why Ms R is concerned about this, as this question was another opportunity for 
Mr B to consider disclosing his hepatitis. But for the same reasons Ive given above, I cant say its likely Mr B would have disclosed his hepatitis here even if hed been asked this 
question. So, I dont think the evidence suggests Mr B lost out because of Sesames error.
Overall, whilst I think Sesames made mistakes, but I dont think these ultimately caused the 
estate of Mr B any loss or inconvenience. 
And even if I could conclude with certainty that Mr B wouldve disclosed his hepatitis but for 
Sesames errors, the outcome would ultimately be the same. Mr Bs application wouldve 
been declined and so no claim wouldve been payable at the time of his death.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont think Sesame Limited need to 
do anything further to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman