DRN-3540626
The complaint
Ms W complains about the exchange rate Bank of Scotland plc applied when she deposited 
Euros into a sterling account.  
What happened
On 8 March 2022, Ms W asked Bank of Scotland to credit 10,725 Euros to her sterling 
account. Bank of Scotland used an exchange rate of 1.3394, and Ms Ws account was 
credited with £8,007.32. Ms W signed a travel money purchase/buyback form which 
confirmed this information.
But, following some on-line research, Ms W said that Bank of Scotland had applied the 
wrong exchange rate. She thought Bank of Scotland had used the exchange rate for 
converting Sterling into Euros and, as a result, she should have received around a further 
£1,000. So, she complained to Bank of Scotland.  
 
Bank of Scotland didnt agree that the wrong exchange had been used and so it didnt 
uphold the complaint. It said Ms W was provided with information about the exchange rate to 
be used so she could make an informed decision. And that Ms W accepted the exchange 
rate at the time.  
Unhappy with the outcome, Ms W referred her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into it, but he didnt think Bank of Scotland had done anything wrong. 
Ms W disagreed saying  in summary, that Bank of Scotland had not clearly presented the 
information about her transaction. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So, the case has now been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W has responded in detail to our investigators findings. And I hope the fact that I do not 
respond in a similar detail will not be taken as a discourtesy. As an informal dispute 
resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion with the 
minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond to every point made 
but to consider the crux of the complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator. I know Ms W will be disappointed, so Ill explain why. 
Ms W has provided information relating to an exchange rate quoted on-line by the           
Bank of England. But, like the investigator, I have also found that this information related to a 
spot exchange rate and that that type of exchange rate isnt applicable to cash transactions. 
In any event, theres no set exchange rate banks must track or replicate. They are entitled to 
set their own exchange rates, which will fluctuate for each currency, taking into account 
various market conditions.
 
The investigator has provided Ms W with details of a range exchange rates other businesses 
were offering at the time he issued his findings, so I wont repeat the details here. But having 
looked at this information  while there has been some exchange rate movement since         
Ms W completed her currency exchange, Im persuaded these rates are in keeping with the 
exchange rate Bank of Scotland offered Ms W. So, I dont agree with Ms W that                           
Bank of Scotland applied a Sterling to Euro exchange rate to her transaction in error.  
Ms W says that Bank of Scotland didnt make the exchange rate it offered clear. I cant be 
sure what was discussed between Ms W and Bank of Scotlands staff while Ms W was in the 
branch. But Ive seen a copy of the invoice of the transaction. This says:
Total currency value 10725
Country Euro
Exch rate 1.3394
Sterling value 8007.32
Notwithstanding what was discussed, I find this information was clear in that Ms W would 
receive £8,007.32 in exchange for her 10,725 Euros. And that the exchange rate being used 
was 1.3394. I also note Ms W signed to accept the transaction. Had she been unhappy with 
the exchange rate, or the sterling amount being offered, Im persuaded that Ms W could 
have terminated the transaction before signing to agree to it.   
I note Ms W has mentioned that she didnt receive Bank of Scotlands final response letter. I 
dont dispute that Ms W didnt receive the final response letter as it seems she was moving 
address around that time. But Im not persuaded Ms W has been disadvantaged as a result. 
Ms W was aware of the outcome of her complaint from the live on-line chat she had with 
Bank of Scotland, and she was told she could refer the matter to this service if she disagreed 
with the outcome. 
Overall, I dont think Bank of Scotland has acted unreasonably in relation to this complaint. 
So, I wont be asking Bank of Scotland to take any further action in respect of it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman