DRN-3227421
The complaint
Mr O complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt make him aware of the 
option to transfer the cash value of his deferred pension annuity to another provider. He said 
it only offered him the option of drawing a pension from the annuity he held, and he thinks he 
would have better off if he was able to transfer the benefits to another provider. 
What happened
Mr O had been a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS). In 2008 the OPS 
wrote to Mr O to confirm the winding up of the scheme and its intention to accept a bulk 
purchase of the members pensions, from Aviva. This meant that each scheme member was 
guaranteed to receive the same income for life at their normal retirement age (NRA). Aviva 
confirmed that, the plan is called a replacement pension annuity (deferred). It belongs to 
you and does not form part of that scheme. 
   
In August 2009 Aviva wrote to Mr O to explain this change in arrangements and asked him 
to provide some information to verify his ID and address. As it said it didnt receive a reply 
Aviva sent a duplicate letter on 8 February 2010.
Because it still didnt receive a response Aviva was unsure about the address it had been 
given by the OPS for Mr O, so it engaged the DWP pension tracing service to confirm Mr Os 
details. Following confirmation the address was correct it wrote to Mr O again in 
October 2012, enclosing his plan documentation and its terms and conditions (T&Cs). A 
summary of the benefits payable on his normal retirement date of 10 October 2019 was set 
out within the schedule.   
 
In April 2019 Aviva contacted Mr O to confirm his address as it was six months before his 
NRA. Then on 28 August 2019 Aviva sent Mr O his retirement quotation and accompanying 
pack, including the options available to him  which were either to take a pension income or 
a tax free cash sum with a reduced pension income.  
On 16 September 2019 Mr O chose to receive a tax free lump sum of £17,133.68 with a 
reduced annual pension of £2,570.16. 
But Mr O says he was unaware of what hed purchased in 2019 and when he later became 
aware, he complained. He said hed been mis sold the annuity and wasnt given any choice 
on whether to purchase an annuity or to transfer his benefits elsewhere and draw them in an 
alternative way.
Aviva said that as Mr Os original OPS had been a defined benefit scheme it would have 
been possible for it to calculate a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV)  if it had been 
asked. But it said it had now paid the benefits according to Mr Os choice from the options 
presented to him and, as the benefits had now been drawn, it wasnt possible to unwind 
them and provide a transfer value instead.
 
Mr O wasnt happy with that response and maintained that his policy had been mis sold. So 
he brought his complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into it. She didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. She thought that Aviva was only obliged to pay the benefits 
as defined by the wound up OPS rules and that as Aviva hadnt been asked to provide a 
CETV at any point, it hadnt done so. She also thought that it was more than likely that Mr O 
wouldnt have been better off by transferring anyway because his annuity benefits were 
defined and safeguarded. Overall she didnt think Aviva had anything wrong as it had simply 
paid Mr O the benefits that were originally set out by the OPS.
Mr O didnt agree, making the following points in response:
He didnt receive any information from Aviva in 2012, so he was unaware of the 
terms and conditions for the replacement pension annuity (RPA). The first 
communication he had from Aviva was its letter from 2019 outlining his benefit 
options.
Aviva had accepted that a transfer of his pension benefits would have been permitted 
but he was never made aware of this option. Had he been made aware he would 
have requested a cash transfer immediately. 
He had previously been given a cash value of his pension pot but wasnt advised that 
it could be transferred.
The investigator provided Mr O with copies of the documents Aviva said it sent him in 2012. 
She confirmed these stated that Mr O needed to tell Aviva if he required a CETV calculation 
in order to transfer his benefits elsewhere. But Mr O said he hadnt received any of those 
documents  only the correspondence from the trustees of the OPS in 2008 and the 
retirement wake up pack from Aviva in 2019. He said hed kept a record of every document 
he received regarding his occupational pension. So he remained of the view that he wasnt 
made aware of his options to transfer and believed that constituted a breach of the 
regulations and meant the annuity had been mis sold. 
He asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed to me to 
review. 
Mr O then provided a further submission in which had made the following points:
He accepted that Aviva didnt have to give him the option to transfer his RPA within 
the policy documents, but it should have done so within its T&Cs. Hed discovered 
the only place this was set out was in the right to transfer part of the T&Cs which 
Aviva said it sent him in October 2012.
Not only did he not receive that information, but he also questioned why it had taken 
Aviva three years from the time the OPS was wound up to send out the relevant (and 
vital) documents. 
He provided evidence that the OPS was wound up in 2008/2009 and that the 
trustees informed him that they hoped to complete the transfer of benefits to Aviva by 
the end of 2008. But he had been advised by an ex-colleague, who had managed to 
speak with Aviva in 2010, that it couldnt issue any policy documents until Aviva had 
verified his identity. 
This had been confirmed in a letter that Aviva sent his ex-colleague in 2009. 
Therefore Mr O believed that as Aviva hadnt been able to verify his own details it 
wouldnt have been able to issue him with any documentation.
He therefore didnt accept that Aviva would have provided these documents  without 
his signature or verification of his ID. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. I know this is an 
outcome which will disappoint Mr O  Ive seen the strength of his feelings on this matter 
from his submissions. And I have some sympathy for his position now that he is unable to 
transfer his benefits and is receiving an annuity that he doesnt believe is appropriate for 
him. 
But I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong here  so Ill explain my reasons.
Was Mr O made aware that he could transfer his pension with Aviva?
Ive been provided with a copy of the T&Cs booklet which Aviva says it sent Mr O in 2012. I 
understand the booklet is dated 1 February 2020, but Aviva has confirmed that the main 
content is unchanged from 2012  so Im satisfied it represents what was in force at the time. 
Mr O is correct when he says that theres no reference to the potential for transferring the 
annuity benefits within the policy schedule, and that its only noted within the T&Cs. Aviva 
has confirmed thats because the T&Cs represent the general product and legal 
requirements whereas the schedule is simply a document relating to Mr Os individual policy.
However, the T&Cs did make reference to the possibility of a right to transfer. The following 
extract explains that right and how it might be explored.
Restrictions on the use of this policy.
You cannot transfer ownership of your benefits under this policy to any other person. 
However, you may be able to transfer the benefits due to you under this policy to another 
registered pension scheme.
Section 5-Transfer
1.Right to transfer.
If you have not taken retirement benefits under section 3 you may transfer the value of your 
benefits under this policy to another registered pension scheme or a qualifying recognised 
overseas pension scheme.
2.The amount payable.
you must tell us in advance if you want to transfer your benefits out of this policy. If you tell 
us that you want to transfer this policy then we will calculate the transfer value at that time 
using a basis determined by the actuary. You must normally transfer the whole of value of 
this policy and no further benefits will be payable from it. 
The rest of the section confirmed how a transfer would be paid and the circumstances under 
which either all or some of the value of the policy would be transferred. 
I think it was clear that Aviva set out that Mr O could transfer his benefits but that he would 
need to approach Aviva in order to begin that process by requesting a CETV. So I cant 
agree that he wasnt made aware of his right to transfer through Avivas documentation. 
However, Mr O denies receiving any documentation from Aviva until the retirement quotation 
that was issued to him in 2019. Therefore, he says he wasnt made aware of the possibility 
of transferring and that theres no evidence to confirm Aviva did write to him in 2012. He also 
says that by 2012 the scheme had been wound up for three years, so it made little sense to 
suddenly provide him with the required documentation at that time. Mr O is correct in saying that theres no evidence of Aviva sending him the letters by 
registered post or recorded delivery  although I see no reason why it would have sent them 
to him in that way. Aviva sent the same information to all of the holders of the RPA and 
theres nothing to suggest it would usually send such information in a different way. 
However, Ive seen evidence that Aviva tried to contact Mr O on several occasions before 
2012. In my view it made reasonable efforts to contact Mr O in 2009 and 2010 before using 
the DWP tracing service to confirm his address in 2012 which was confirmed as being the 
one at which it had previously written to him. 
So the reason that Aviva didnt send the T&Cs and other documentation until three years 
after the scheme was wound up was because it had endeavoured to contact Mr T and had to 
use a different service to confirm his address. Aviva has also confirmed that once the DWP 
had confirmed his address it was satisfied the address was correct and didnt need Mr O to 
confirm his identity  which Mr O had suggested was a reason that Aviva wouldnt have 
written to him in 2012. He said an ex-colleague had learnt from Aviva that it wouldnt write to 
a member/policyholder until it had verified their ID  but Im satisfied that by 2012 Aviva was 
comfortable with Mr Ts proof of address. 
But returning to the question of whether Mr T had received the letters from Aviva, while I 
dont dispute Mr Os assertion that he didnt receive the 2012 letter, I think its unlikely that 
he would have failed to receive at least one of the other letters Aviva sent him  especially 
as its shown that the letters were sent to Mr Os correct address. 
One of the documents Aviva demonstrated that it sent Mr O was the same letter he has 
provided to us which his ex-colleague had received. So I think that would suggest the 
document was sent at the time Aviva said it was  but Mr O simply didnt receive it. I also 
think it supports Avivas claim about the other documents and communication it said it sent 
between 2009 and 2012. On balance, I think the documents were sent at the appropriate 
times. 
Of course its unfortunate if Mr O didnt receive the letters, but I think that Aviva fulfilled its 
obligations by sending two letters to try to confirm Mr Os address followed by the important 
policy schedule and T&Cs booklet, which would have provided Mr O with all the information 
he needed. Indeed Mr O has told us that if he had received that information, he would have 
been able to establish that he could request a CETV and subsequent transfer when he 
wanted to draw his benefits. 
Im satisfied that, on balance, Aviva did send the letters to Mr O at his correct address and 
that the letters Ive been provided with were sent on the dates shown. I see no reason why 
Aviva would now supply backdated copies of letters that it didnt send, especially as Mr Os 
ex-colleague has provided a copy of one of those letters that he did receive around the date 
shown on the letter.
And it follows therefore that if I think Aviva did sent the information, then it provided the 
relevant documentation which would have made Mr O aware of his right to transfer. 
Should Mr O have been told about the transfer option in 2019?
Mr O says that when he received the letter about his retirement options and other 
information in 2019, Aviva could have made him aware of the transfer option at that time. But 
I dont think Aviva was obliged to do that as I think the RPA should be regarded as a defined 
benefit (DB) scheme under the continuing provisions that the OPS was subject to. As such, 
DB schemes dont have to offer transfers as an alternative because the scheme is likely to 
be in the members best interests.
 Mr O says he was mis sold the RPA and if hed been made aware of the type of plan he had 
he would have asked for a CETV and transferred the benefits to his other pension plan. He 
doesnt think the annuity is the most suitable plan for him in his situation.  
But the RPA wasnt recommended or sold to him in this case. The trustees of the OPS 
decided to transfer all of the members pensions to another provider when it was wound up. It 
was their decision to transfer and the condition of the sale was that Aviva was required to 
pay pensions in line with the OPS rules and requirements. So Mr O didnt have the 
opportunity to choose an alternative plan. Mr O did have the option to ask for a CETV and 
transfer his benefits elsewhere if he wanted, and Im satisfied Aviva provided the information 
he needed to make him aware of that facility.  
But I dont think Aviva was obliged to do anything further as it was simply required to pay 
Mr O a pension along the lines of the one he would have received from the OPS. As such 
his scheme, if it had continued, wouldnt have given him an option to transfer when he drew 
the benefits when he retired. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman