DRN-4473958
The complaint
Mr L has complained that esure Insurance Limited has turned down his claim under his car
insurance policy for the theft of his car.
What happened
Mr L made a claim on 20 October 2022 following the theft of his car, which he said took
place between 14 and 19 October 2022. When Mr L reported the theft to esure electronically
and in the validation call, he said when he left his vehicle prior to the theft he locked it
remotely using one of the key fobs.
esure investigated the claim by asking Mr L to send his key fobs to a key expert, who Ill
refer to as J, who carried out a forensic examination and provided a report on 28 November
2022.
esure then discussed what had happened again with Mr L and he said again hed locked the
car using the key fob. But it looks like he mentioned hed had problems starting the car and
had to hold the key in a certain place under the steering column to be able to do this.
esure turned down Mr Ls claim. This was because J said in its report that it had scanned
both key fobs and the scanners had not picked up a signal. It also noted both keys were
corroded, although the corrosion on the one Mr L had been using was only light. In esures
opinion this meant that Mr L could not have used either of the keys hed provided to start his
car or to lock it prior to it being stolen. And it gave the reason for turning down Mr Ls claim
as not being able to verify his version of events.
Mr L then emailed esure and said hed had problems using his key to start his car since hed
had a new alternator fitted, but that he had managed to do it by holding it under the steering
column and pressing the start button. esure checked this with J, but J said this would not
have been possible. So esure maintained it was right to turn down Mr Ls claim. Mr L
complained to esure, but it wouldnt alter its decision. So, Mr L asked us to consider his
complaint.
One of our investigators did this and said it shouldnt be upheld. He explained that this was
because he didnt think esure had acted unreasonably in relying on the key report to turn
down Mr Ls claim.
Mr L asked for an ombudsmans decision and his complaint was referred to me.
I spoke with Mr L and explained that as I saw it, esure did not believe he could have started
his car using either of the keys hed provided. And this meant it thought his version of the
events leading up to the theft was untrue. And, in effect, it either considered he hadnt
proved he had a valid claim, or it considered hed made fraudulent statements in support of
his claim.
I also asked Mr L about the issue hed had with using the keys to start his car. He said hed
only used one of the keys since he got the car and that hed had a problem unlocking and
locking the car remotely with it after his roadside assistance provider, who Ill refer to as R,
changed the battery in his car a couple of months before it was stolen. He explained that
hed been using the key blade in the fob to lock and unlock his car in the period between
when R changed the battery and when his car was stolen. He said he also had a problem
starting the car in this period and had to hold the key under the steering column before
pressing the start button to get the car to start.
I asked Mr L to provide evidence that R had changed the battery on his car and that hed
raised an issue with the remote locking not working soon after this. And he provided a job
sheet from R showing it replaced the battery on his car in July 2022. And a note of his follow
up with R to say the remote had stopped working after it did this. I also asked Mr L to provide
evidence hed bought fuel for his car in the period just before he reported it stolen. And Mr L
has provided a bank statement showing he made a payment of £94.07 for fuel from his bank
account on 7 October 2022, which is a week before hed said he left his car prior to it being
stolen. The bank statement has a sort code and account number on it and payments from a
card held by Mr L, along with a direct debit to R, so I have no reason to doubt the statement
is for Mr Ls bank account.
Having spoken to Mr L, I contacted esure and suggested it should have the keys for Mr Ls
car rescanned. When I did this, I had not appreciated the scanners J had used were listed
right at the bottom of its report on a separate page after the statement of truth and signature.
So, I suggested to esure that the scanners J had used may not be the best available and
that I thought esure should send the keys elsewhere to be scanned. esure wouldnt agree to
do this.
esures case handler pointed out the scanners J had used were listed at the end of its report.
Having checked them, I explained that I was satisfied the scanners were of a good enough
quality and would pick up a signal from a normally functioning key for Mr Ls car. But I
suggested that, although the scanners werent able to pick up a signal from Mr Ls keys, it
was possible that the scanner in his car could still have done so.
I then issued an informal decision by email suggesting that esure should settle Mr Ls claim
on the basis I found his testimony that hed been able to start his car with one of the key fobs
credible. And that weighing this against the evidence provided by esure I found it more
persuasive.
esure responded to say it didnt agree with my informal decision and it set out its expert
evidence again. I also spoke to Js representative, who said that in his opinion, Mr Ls key
most likely no longer worked due to the fact it had been microwaved (rather than it being due 
the corrosion). After this meeting I emailed esure and explained that if they could arrange to
have the chip from Mr Ls key moved to a dummy key and scan this, they could establish
whether the chip was working. I understand this to be a simple process that could be carried
out by a laptop repair centre. esure declined to do this and have said its not something it
would expect someone to do when assessing keys. esure also said its not comfortable
taking the key to a high street repair shop and didnt consider the results would provide
persuasive evidence.
esure went on to express concerns and question my impartiality; suggesting my informal
decision was based on my gut feel for Mr L and ignored the available evidence, i.e. the key
report it had provided. It also raised the following concerns:
It had provided persuasive evidence supporting its declinature.
I had disregarded its evidence in favour of Mr Ls testimony.
Neither I nor Mr L had provided evidence to support Mr Ls claim and we have in fact
refused to provide it.I had continually asked esure to provide evidence to refute its own expert and my
reasons for my concerns with its evidence seemed interchangeable.
My suggestions to progress matters didnt seem reasonable.
If I issued a decision upholding Mr Ls complaint it would have repercussions across the
insurance industry.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 October 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying that it is my role to act impartially and decide the fair and reasonable
outcome to this case based on the evidence provided. So, the fact I dont agree with esures
point of view or consider they could provide further evidence to help me decide the case,
does not mean I am not acting impartially. My aim here is to make sure that the outcome to
this complaint is fair and reasonable.
In considering this complaint, I have first of all considered what is covered by Mr Ls policy
and what he needed to do to establish in the first instance that he had a valid claim. His
policy covers the loss of his car as a result of theft. And, having proved he owned his car and
that he reported it as stolen to the police, I consider he did enough to establish a claim for
consideration by esure in the first instance. And, if esure didnt want to pay the claim, I
consider it needed to establish it was entitled to rely on a term in the policy to reject it.
There is a fraud condition in Mr Ls policy which states that if Mr L makes a fraudulent or
false claim or false statements in support of a claim, esure may not pay his claim and will
cancel his policy.
esure hasnt said specifically it doesnt think what Mr L has said is true, but it does seem
from the fact it said it could not verify his version of events that this is what it meant. And, as
far as I am concerned, this means esure has rejected Mr Ls claim because it believes he
has made fraudulent statements in support of it. This is supported by the fact it appears to
have cancelled Mr Ls policy after it rejected his claim.
So, to decide what the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is, I think I need to
weigh up all the evidence and consider whether Mr L did make false statements in support of
his claim. And, if I consider he did, I need to decide whether it is fair and reasonable to allow
esure to rely on the abovementioned fraud condition to reject his claim because of this.
I agree the forensic key report is strong evidence. But I cannot rule out the possibility that the
reason Js scanners did not pick up a signal from the key Mr L has said hed been using is
because it corroded further in the month or so between when Mr L said he last used it and
when J scanned it. And it was not emitting a strong enough signal by the time J scanned it,
but it was doing so just before Mr L reported his car stolen. The only way I think I can be
sure the key didnt work when Mr L reported his vehicle as stolen or that it was tampered
with prior to it being sent to J would be for the chip to be tested and for this to show it isnt
working. I understand this to be quite a simple process which can be done by inserting the
chip in a dummy key and then scanning that key to see if the chip works. So if esure had
been willing to switch it and check it and it didnt work, I would have likely been persuaded
Mr L could not have used this key to start his car or that he tampered with it prior to sending
it to J. And I do not agree suggesting this was unreasonable or going further than should be
expected of an insurer, if it helps make sure a customer gets the right outcome.
However, esure isnt willing to arrange this and it thinks its case is strong enough based on
the evidence it has already provided. Although it has now arranged for the key to be sent tothe manufacturer of Mr Ls car for further testing. But  as things stand - it has left open the
possibility that the chip in the key Mr L has said he was using does still work and the
antenna on the key was still emitting a strong enough signal at the point Mr L said he last
used it, but wasnt by the time J scanned it.
I have to weigh this against what Mr L has said and the evidence he has provided to support
it. When he originally reported his claim Mr L did clearly say  both online and in the
validation call  that he had locked his car remotely using the key fob. He appears to have
said this again at the end of November 2022 when esure contacted him again. And he did
not mention having any problem doing this. Although he did mention that hed had problem
starting his car using the keys at the end of November 2022.
When Mr L spoke with me after Id reviewed the complaint, he told me that he had not been
able to use the fob to lock or unlock his car remotely since the battery had been changed
and hed been using the key blade to do this via the passenger door. He also told me the
battery was replaced a couple of days after the alternator on his car was replaced. Although,
I can see from what hes provided the alternator was replaced in March 2022 and the battery
wasnt replaced until July 2022. And Mr L didnt actually mention having to use the key blade
at all initially or when esure rejected his claim.
I think what Mr L said about locking and starting his car when he spoke with me is true. This
is because he gave me a very detailed account of how he locked his car prior to the theft
and how hed been doing this for a couple of months. He also explained very clearly how he
used to start his car by holding the key under the steering column. And hes also provided
what I consider to be good evidence to back up his testimony about having problems using
the fob to lock his car, ie the job sheet and his communication with R about this issue.
As well as this hes provided a bank statement which strongly suggests he was using his car
only a week before he left it prior to the theft. I have asked our investigator to provide this
evidence to esure. And, while I appreciate esure doesnt think Mr L could have used his keys
to lock or start his car just prior to the theft, as Ive already explained, I think there is a
possibility it was still emitting a signal at the time he said he last used it. This combined with
his subsequent testimony means that I think he was able to do so up to the point he left his
car before it was stolen. I also need to consider the fact that esure could have asked Mr L to
provide evidence hed been using his car prior to the theft when he challenged its decision to
reject his claim. And, at this point it may even have been possible for Mr L to obtain CCTV
evidence from the fuel station to support his assertion that hed recently added fuel to his
car.
This means, that whilst it seems Mr L provided a false statement initially, which I think may
have been because he thought it the best thing to say in the circumstances, he could never
have gained any financial advantage by saying it. I say this because if hed explained, as he
later did to me, what hed been doing to lock and unlock his car, it would not  in my opinion
 have given esure a reason to turn down his claim. Therefore, I do not think esure can rely
on the fact Mr L made a false statement to turn down his claim.
In view of this, and the fact Im currently persuaded by Mr Ls testimony that he was able to
start his car using one of the keys, I think he has a valid claim for theft under his policy,
which esure should settle in accordance with the claim settlement terms in it. It should also
pay interest on the amount due at 8% per annum simple from the date it issued its final
response on Mr Ls claim to the date of actual payment. This is to compensate Mr L for being
without funds he should have had. I appreciate he had finance on the vehicle and Im not
sure what the interest on this borrowing was. But overall, I consider 8% to be fair. Ive
chosen the date of esures final response, as I think by this time esure should have
completed further investigations and accepted Mr Ls claim.I appreciate esure thinks this outcome could have repercussions for the insurance industry,
but it is my job to decide each case on its merits and it is not appropriate for me to comment
on the impact of my decisions generally.
I gave both parties until 22 November 2023 to provide further comments and evidence in 
response to my provisional decision.
Mr L has responded to say he has no further comments or evidence to provide. 
esure has responded to say it cant accept my provisional decision and it has made the 
following further comments:
I am placing a much greater weight on the testimony provided by Mr L than the expert 
testimony provided by J. 
In effect, Ive asked it to go to extreme unorthodox lengths to disprove its own expert. 
It has had the keys assessed by the manufacturer of Mr Ls car and its findings didnt 
add anything to the evidence already provided. They simply confirmed that both keys 
appeared to be genuine, but for some reason they are both dead and they could not 
recover the serial numbers. They added that if their technician couldnt get the keys to 
work, no-one could. 
It has questioned the benefit of moving the chip to another key fob because the PCB 
shows multiple areas of corrosion. It has said that given the PCB that is corroded, 
moving it to another key fob would not change the level of corrosion and would likely 
result in the same result. 
It has provided evidence supporting its position. And  while Im able to decide what 
information I need and how much weight I place on it  its view is that this should be 
within reason and proportionate. And it thinks my earlier suggestion that it sent the key 
elsewhere to be examined was unreasonable; as was my suggestion it should be taken 
to a PC repair shop. It does not think evidence from a PC repair shop would be more 
credible than the evidence provided by its own expert, i.e. J.  
Its satisfied with the evidence its supplied and if Mr L disagrees with its decision on his 
claim, he is welcome to supply his own evidence supporting his position. 
The evidence Mr L has provided from R simply proves his keys were not functioning.
The proof Mr L purchased fuel around a week before his car was stolen isnt persuasive 
given he has more than one car in his household. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it remains my view that the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ls complaint 
is that esure should be required to settle his claim. 
I appreciate esure thinks Im placing much greater weight on the testimony provided by Mr L 
than the expert testimony provided by J. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, I 
have to weigh up all the evidence and decide whether I consider esure was right to turn 
down Mr Ls claim. I consider to do this I need to be able to say that esure has  proved on 
the balance of probabilities that Mr L made a false statement or statements that would have 
gained him a financial advantage. This is because I consider he has established a valid 
claim which is covered by the policy and it is for esure to show it can rely on a term in it to 
turn it down. The only one I can see it could rely on is the term I mentioned in my provisional 
decision relating to Mr L making false statements. And Mr Ls testimony is a key piece of 
evidence I need to take into account. I do of course also need to take into account Js report. And I have done this. And I do accept the keys Mr J provided didnt emit a signal at the point 
J scanned them. However, as I also explained in my provisional decision, I do not think this 
proves categorically that the one Mr L has said he was using to start his car didnt work at 
the point he said he last used it. And he has now confirmed it could not be used to lock his 
car at this point. And I believe the evidence he has provided from R shows this to be the 
case. However, I do not agree with esures point that the evidence from R proves neither key 
fob was functioning at all. In my opinion, all it proves is Mr L couldnt lock or unlock his car 
with them.  
This means what Mr L said when he reported his claim wasnt correct, as he couldnt have 
locked his car with one of the key fobs he had. But Im satisfied with his more recent 
testimony that he didnt actually do this is true based on all the evidence. And, while this also 
means Mr L made a false statement when he reported his claim, I do not believe he could 
have gained any financial advantage by doing this. I explained why I think this in my 
provisional decision. And this is why I dont think esure can rely on it to refuse Mr Ls claim. 
And, while I appreciate esure feels very strongly that the key fobs cant have worked when 
Mr L last said one of them did, I think there is a possibility one of them did and his testimony 
has persuaded me that this was the case, i.e. he was able to start his car by holding one of 
the key fobs under the steering column and pressing the start button. 
Im not surprised the manufacturer of Mr Ls car drew the same conclusions as J. Although, I 
am pleased it also thought the keys Mr L supplied were genuine. This is because, as I 
explained to esure, as I understand it the only way to prove categorically that neither of the 
key fobs could have worked when Mr L last said he used one of them or that hed tampered 
with one or both of them before sending them to J would have been to move the NXP 
semiconductors (the chips) to a dummy key and see whether the keys worked. If J had done 
this or outsourced it I would have considered the findings as additional from it and esure. I 
appreciate esure considers this method to be unorthodox and that it may well be further than 
esure wanted to go. However, I consider it a reasonable and proportionate suggestion. And 
that the evidence would have been credible. It was up to esure whether it wanted to obtain 
the further evidence it would have provided. It chose not to obtain it, so I must decide this 
case on the evidence I have. 
I accept it is possible the fuel Mr L purchased a week or so before his car was stolen could 
have been for another car. But I am persuaded by his testimony that it was for the car he has 
claimed for.
I do not consider Mr L needs to provide any more evidence to support his position, because 
 based on the evidence currently available  I do not consider esure has enough to show it 
was entitled to reject his claim. 
In summary, it remains my view that Mr L has established a valid claim for the theft of his car 
in the first instance and that esure has not shown that it is entitled to rely on a term in his 
policy to reject it. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls 
complaint and make esure settle his claim in accordance with the claim settlement terms in 
his policy. 
Ive also decided to make it pay interest on the amount due to Mr L at 8% per annum simple from the date of its final response letter on his complaint to the date of actual payment1. This 
is to compensate Mr L for being without funds he should have had.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ls complaint about esure Insurance Limited and order it to do what Ive set out 
above in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 Esure must tell Mr L if it has made a deduction for income tax. And, if it has, how much its 
taken off. It must also provide a tax deduction certificate for Mr L if asked to do so. This will 
allow Mr L to reclaim the tax from His Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.