DRN-3430173
The complaint
Mr B complains that Perspective (Thornton Springer) Ltd (Perspective) caused unnecessary 
delays in processing his request for a withdrawal from his pension plan.
What happened
Mr B had a personal pension plan (PPP) held with a firm Ill refer to as [A]. Perspective was 
engaged as his financial adviser. 
In March 2021, Mr B contacted Perspective and informed it he wished to make a withdrawal 
of £35,000 from his portfolio, and for the funds to be paid to him within the tax year 2020/21. 
Perspective made a formal recommendation that he utilise the funds within his PPP held 
with [A]. The necessary paperwork was completed, and the instruction passed to [A], but the 
funds were released on 6 April 2021, which was in the tax year 2021/22.
Mr B told Perspective that having the payment made in the tax year 2021/22 meant he was 
going to be liable for additional tax in that year. The matter wasnt resolved and on 21 May 
2021 Perspective opened a formal complaint investigation to establish what had happened.
Perspective sent Mr B its final response to his complaint on 16 August 2021. In this 
Perspective upheld his complaint and agreed it had failed to process his withdrawal request 
in a timely manner. It agreed that if Mr B could demonstrate hed suffered any financial loss 
as a result of the payment being made in the tax year 2021/22, instead of the previous year 
as hed intended, it would make good his losses. 
In September 2021 Mr B asked Perspective to arrange a withdrawal of £41,525 from his 
PPP. But Perspective recommended he utilise his NS&I Premium Bond holdings to access 
this amount as this would reduce any tax liability. Perspective also said that its offer to make 
good any financial losses incurred by Mr B still stood, but as he was able to make the 
required withdrawal from his portfolio without incurring any tax liability, it wouldnt reimburse 
any tax liability incurred through a withdrawal from his PPP, as this wasnt the course of 
action it was recommending. 
Mr B wasnt happy with this so complained to our service. 
When our Investigator looked into what had happened, he thought Perspective hadnt 
treated Mr B fairly. He thought Perspective ought to honour its original commitment to make 
good any financial losses Mr B incurred as a result of the funds being paid to him in the 
incorrect tax year. But he did note that Mr B hadnt actually made any further withdrawals 
from his PPP in the tax year 2021/22 so there was no further tax liability and hence no 
financial loss. But he did think Perspective should pay Mr B £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused him for the consequences of it failing to process the withdrawal 
in a timely manner.
But Mr B didnt agree. He submitted a large amount of information to support his position. In 
summary, he didnt think £300 was sufficient compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused, and he explained in some detail why this was the case. He 
also said that he was unhappy with the way Perspective had handled his complaint, and that 
it had failed to honour the commitment it had made in its final response letter to his 
complaint. He also said he had suffered a financial loss, as he had had to cash in two index-
linked National Savings Certificates (NS&I) bonds with a combined value of £25,664.32 and 
these wouldve been of increasing value had they not been cashed in.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me for a final decision. 
Whilst considering the case, I asked Mr B to provide me further information about his 
expenditure during the tax year 2021/22 and what investments, if any, he had had to utilise 
instead of the requested PPP withdrawal in September 2021. 
Mr B said, in summary, that it was a long-standing plan to utilise withdrawals from his PPP in 
the tax years 2020/21 and 2021/22 to supplement his income up to the higher rate tax 
threshold. The cash withdrawal which should have occurred in March 2021 had been 
already earmarked for the purchase of a new car in May 2021, so given the uncertainty at 
the time caused by Perspective not committing to cover any future tax liability, hed cashed 
in the two NS&I Savings Certificates which were attracting a high rate of interest. Hed also 
started taking the dividends from his share investments as income rather than re-investing 
them as hed done previously. So, he said hed suffered the loss of investment returns and 
growth from both of these sources as a direct result of Perspectives error.
He stressed that had he been able to make the planned PPP withdrawal in September 2021 
this wouldve provided a net income of roughly the same as the NS&I bonds and dividends 
combined, which confirmed that this was his original intention all along. He concluded that 
Perspective had only changed its position as it realised it would have to compensate him for 
excess tax. Therefore, he thought Perspective ought to compensate him £8,305 which was 
roughly the 20% tax he wouldve paid had he completed the September 2021 withdrawal 
from his PPP.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Perspective is not disputing that it shouldve actioned Mr Bs withdrawal request in 
March 2021 more quickly. And this wouldve meant Mr B wouldve received his income in the 
tax year 2020/21, and not, as it transpired, in 2021/22. And when it issued its final response 
to his complaint, it agreed that it would cover any financial loss Mr B suffered as a result of 
its error.
But when Mr B asked Perspective to arrange a withdrawal of £41,525 from his PPP in 
September 2021, it recommended that he utilise his Premium Bonds in order to reduce his 
tax liability. And although it said it would cover any demonstrable loss that Mr B incurred, it 
was recommending that he get his required income from an available tax-free source.
The role of our service is to identify if an error, or errors have occurred. And where one or 
more has been identified, we aim to put the consumer back in the position they wouldve 
been if the error hadnt occurred. But we are limited in what types of activity we can 
consider. I know Mr B will be frustrated by this, but complaint handling, in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint, is not a regulated activity. So, it falls outside of my powers 
to rule on how Perspective has handled its complaints procedure. Nor can I require it to pay 
compensation for the delays in the issuing of its final response or make a finding if it 
changes its position post its final response. What I can do however, is focus on the crux of 
this complaint - the delay in actioning the withdrawal - and decide what, if anything, Perspective needs to do to put things right.
Perspective has agreed that Mr B requested the withdrawal of £35,000 from his portfolio in 
time for it to be paid to him within the tax year 2020/21. I can see Perspective made a formal 
recommendation for Mr B to use the funds held within his [A] PPP for this purpose. This 
recommendation is not the subject of a complaint, so I have not assessed its suitability. 
But Perspective have, by delaying the transfer so that it fell within the tax year 2021/22, 
made a mistake here. So, it is fair and reasonable for it to make good any financial loss 
which Mr B suffered as a result of its mistake. 
Mr B has supplied a great deal of information, both to the Investigator and to myself, for 
which Im grateful, and I can assure him Ive read and considered it all closely. But having 
done so, I cant see that Mr B has suffered any financial loss as a result of Perspectives 
error. Ill explain why. 
I have looked closely at what Mr B has said he had to do to support his income in 2021/22. 
He has explained that the £35,000 withdrawal which shouldve occurred in March 2021 was 
earmarked for a car purchase in May 2021. And he says that because of the uncertainty at 
that time caused by Perspective not committing to cover any tax losses from a further 
planned withdrawal, he cashed in two index-linked savings bonds, and took share dividends 
as cash. He says both of these investments couldve grown in value, and this potential 
growth has been lost. 
Whilst I understand Mr Bs position here, I dont agree that its caused a loss in the way he 
thinks it has. I can see the NS&I savings certificates he cashed in in May 2021 were 
maturing then anyway. I understand Mr B says he couldve re-invested them, but he chose 
not to. This is the same for the share dividends. Mr B made a decision to take these as cash 
to supplement his income. And both of these decisions meant a probable loss of future 
growth. But both of these decisions were made a significant time before Perspectives 
complaint investigation outcome, and given the first PPP withdrawal was already earmarked 
for the purchase of a new car, I think it is more likely than not that Mr B wouldve had to 
supplement his income by cashing in the NS&I savings certificates and share dividends 
anyway. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to hold Perspective responsible for any associated loss 
of investment growth from either of these.
And Mr B has shown that the income he received from the NS&I savings certificates and 
share dividends was roughly the net income he wouldve received from the second 
withdrawal of £41,525 from his PPP. So, he had already received an equivalent income 
before the second request, made in September 2021 which ultimately didnt go ahead, was 
made.  I can only say that Perspective would be responsible for any losses which occurred 
after this date. And Mr B hasnt shown that there were any other additional sources of 
income accessed for the remainder of the tax year 2021/22.
Whilst I agree that Perspective shouldve honoured its commitment made in its final 
response letter to compensate Mr B for any financial losses he incurred, the tax year 
2021/22 has passed, and Im satisfied that Mr B hasnt suffered any financial losses that I 
can fairly hold Perspective responsible for. 
Putting things right
I do agree that Perspectives delay in actioning Mr Bs withdrawal request has caused him 
some distress and inconvenience. And he has provided a lot of evidence to support this. I 
can see that he probably had to make some changes to his 2021/22 financial plans due to 
the uncertainty regarding his tax position, but as Ive said above, Im limited to considering the impact the original error has had. I cant consider the distress and inconvenience hes 
been caused by Perspectives complaint investigation or its outcome. This is because 
complaint handling in these circumstances is not a regulated activity, and so is outside of the 
jurisdiction of this Service. 
But having considered the impact of Perspectives error, I agree with the Investigator that 
£300 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and is broadly in line with 
our Services approach.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Perspective (Thornton Springer) Ltd to pay Mr B £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman