DRN-1274927
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) decision to decline their 
claim for water damage under their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A thought they had a leaking pipe and asked a home emergency company to 
investigate. Some months later they noticed water damage in their bathroom which they 
thought the leaking pipe had caused. They made a claim on their buildings insurance policy. 
AXA sent a surveyor to investigate who reported that there wasnt a leaking pipe or any sign 
that one had been repaired. The surveyor reported that water coming into the property 
through damaged rendering had caused the damp walls in the bathroom and also the 
hallway. AXA declined Mr and Mrs As claim because their policy didnt include cover for 
damage caused as a result of wear and tear, or which happens gradually over time. Mr and 
Mrs A complained about the outcome but AXA didnt change its decision.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint for the following reasons. 
In his report, the surveyor said that the damage was caused by the breakdown of rendering 
on the external walls, which allowed water to enter the property and damage the walls over a 
long period of time. So the damage was due to wear and tear of the rendering which the 
policy doesnt cover, rather than being a one off, insured event which the policy might cover. 
The surveyor took moisture content readings of the walls which showed a long, ongoing 
issue with damp in several places throughout the house. The surveyor concluded that the 
high moisture content indicated that the damage had happened gradually over time. Our 
investigator explained that the buildings insurance policy doesnt include cover for gradual 
damage. 
The surveyor didnt link the water damage to a single event of a leaking pipe. So, our 
investigator felt it was fair for AXA to decline the claim because there wasnt an insurable 
event. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with our investigators view, although they werent able to provide 
any further information. 
The case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.Where the parties disagree about the cause of damage we rely on expert evidence. AXAs 
surveyor regularly carries out this type of work and is qualified to investigate and determine 
the likely cause of damage to the property. The surveyor must accurately report on the 
damage theyve seen and the likely cause of that damage. The insurer can then reach a fair 
decision about whether or not to accept a claim, taking into consideration the expert 
evidence. As long as the report is well-reasoned and other evidence doesnt cause me to 
question its content, Im satisfied that the report is an accurate account.  With that in mind, 
Ive looked at how AXA reached its decision to decline the claim.
Mr and Mrs A thought they had a leaking pipe which their home emergency provider 
investigated. Its not clear whether the provider identified and repaired a leak, although 
photos in the expert report show that tiles have been removed from the bathroom wall 
exposing a pipe. So Ive thought about whether this makes a difference to the outcome and 
Ive decided it doesnt. Thats because AXA relied on the surveyors report which confirmed 
that damp, resulting from wear and tear to the rendering, caused the damage Mr and Mrs A 
claimed for. The damage is not consistent with that caused by a leaking pipe. 
I then looked at the photos showing the bathroom and other areas in Mr and Mrs As house, 
along with photos of the external walls. Im satisfied that they support the surveyors report 
that the rendering had deteriorated over time and that it created an ongoing problem with 
damp. I note that the report also says the property doesnt have any damp proofing, which 
gives further weight to the accuracy of the report. Mr and Mrs As buildings insurance policy 
booklet sets out what it does and doesnt cover. I have compared each of the relevant policy 
clauses with the surveyors report to decide whether AXA fairly declined their claim.
The policy booklet states the following:
Preventing loss
You must take steps to:
- keep your home in a good state of repair: and
- avoid or limit any loss, damage or injury.
 
The policy doesnt cover for:
loss or damage that would not have arisen if there had not been a failure to deal with 
existing damage that would have been noticeable, you were aware of and/or where 
there has been an unreasonable delay in starting to deal with the damage.
or:
cost associated with general maintenance to your home such as defective rendering, 
re pointing chimneys or general roof maintenance.
 
Ive noted that the surveyors report describes the property as being in a poor state of repair 
and that the rendering was damaged. This would fall under general maintenance and Im 
satisfied that it wouldve been noticeable because it was on the outside of the house.
The accidental damage section of the policy also specifically excludes claims for damage:that happens gradually over time as a result of causes such as light or atmospheric 
conditions.
 
The surveyor reported that damp got worse over time, damaging the walls inside the house.
In summary, Im satisfied that the water damage Mr and Mrs A claimed for is a result of both 
wear and tear and gradual damage, both of which are excluded under the insurance policy. 
So it was fair for AXA to decline the claim under their buildings insurance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman