DRN-4323786
The complaint
Mrs B is only known by her middle name and doesnt wish to use her first name. Mrs B 
complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest), as their credit card department 
have caused her distress by declining her request not to refer to her first name.
What happened
Mrs B has always been known by her middle name. She neither uses or wishes to be known 
by her first name and she finds it distressing when her first name is used. 
Mrs B has several bank accounts with NatWest, and these recognise her requirement for 
cards and correspondence to only display her middle and last names. 
Mrs B expected the same modification when she opened a NatWest credit card account. 
However, she experienced difficulties when she made a request and was informed that her 
first name would be displayed.
Mrs B finds this, and suggestions to have her name changed by deed poll, very rude and 
distressing. Also, she is perplexed, as this doesnt apply to her other accounts with NatWest. 
Mrs B has explained that the reasons for her distress are very personal, and this includes a 
lack of honour for the name she has always been known by and called and lack of respect 
for the name my parents chose to call me by and for me to be known by. 
So, Mrs B complained to NatWest. NatWest apologised for the difficulties Mrs B had 
experienced. They said they could personalise her credit card but explained that their credit 
card systems would only allow names to be used that matched identity documents. NatWest 
apologised for the inconvenience and credited Mrs B with £100 compensation.
Mrs B remained dissatisfied and complained to our service, however our investigator didnt 
uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
As Mrs B remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, Im not asking NatWest to take any further action.
I should first explain this service cant instruct a business or business group to alter its policy, 
procedures or systems. I say this because we arent the regulator of the financial services 
industry. Also, its not for this service to assess whether NatWest have breached the Equality 
Act 2010, as thats an issue for the courts.
Our role is to consider each individual case and, where we think a business hasnt acted 
fairly and reasonably in the circumstances, to decide what should be done to put right any 
financial or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced.
I am very sympathetic to Mrs Bs situation here. I can fully understand her distress receiving 
correspondence and hearing artificial intelligence in her first name. I also understand her 
frustration as NatWest have modified her name on other accounts as have other financial 
institutions. 
Although NatWest have explained the following:
 The systems we use for general banking and the system used for credit cards differ. 
The day to day banking system (Back Office) allows us to have an account heading which is 
the customers full legal name but we can amend the addressees name. Whereas the 
system we use for Credit Cards (TSYS) doesnt allow this feature. As such, it is not possible 
to have Mrs Bs name on her statements as any derivative other than the name she was 
given that matches her legal identification as this could lead to security implications."
 "The identification that you provided us with details your name in full and our records 
need to match the documentation provided. Regrettably, this means that our 
correspondence will be issued using your full name. We are unable to issue correspondence 
using your initials only and I dont want to make any changes that may cause problems down 
the line if you are required to validate your identity."
Mrs B would like me to instruct NatWest to change their computing operation systems so 
they have a means of addressing customers by name known as.
For the reasons explained above, Im unable to tell NatWest to make changes to their 
system, policy and procedures. Its clear that NatWest have both a system constraint and a 
security validation concern here, which is upsetting and frustrating for Mrs B. However, for 
these business reasons, its not possible for any customer to have a modified name, so Im 
satisfied that theyre not treating Mrs B differently to anyone else here.
Also, in this difficult circumstance, although Mrs B finds it insufficient, I consider NatWests 
explanation, apology, £100 redress and agreement to personalise her credit card, to be fair 
and reasonable. 
Regarding the suggestion by NatWest representatives for Mrs B to change her name by 
deed poll. Whilst I can understand why Mrs B views this as rude and how this added to her 
distress, considering Mrs B said, the conversations were to try to resolve the matter and 
that her reasoning is very personal, Im satisfied that this suggestion wouldve been made 
with the best of intentions. 
So, whilst I sympathise with Mrs Bs situation, I havent seen anything which suggests 
NatWest have acted unreasonably or unfairly here. I appreciate Mrs B will be extremely 
disappointed but Im not asking NatWest to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman