DRN-4310389
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) gave her incorrect 
information and caused other delays when she wanted to access her pension. 
Aviva has acknowledged that its mistakes caused Mrs W trouble and upset and paid her £50 
compensation. It also carried out a loss assessment which confirmed that she hadnt been 
financially disadvantaged by the delay. But Mrs W doesnt think that the £50 compensation is 
sufficient under the circumstances. 
What happened
Mrs W has a pension plan with Aviva. She wanted to start taking benefits from her plan.
Mrs W called Aviva on 4 April 2023 to ask for a Retirement Options Pack (ROP). The Aviva 
representative explained what would be in the pack and confirmed her contact details. She 
also asked Mrs W if she was happy to receive the pack by email. Mrs W said she was as 
long as she didnt need to print anything. Aviva confirmed she wouldnt. At the end of the 
call, Mrs W asked Aviva if the email would be a zip file. Aviva said it wouldnt. Mrs W said: 
So I dont need anything to open that?. And Aviva said she wouldnt.
Aviva said that the ROP was generated on the 10 April 2023. And that it was emailed to Mrs 
W on 12 April 2023. 
Mrs W said that when the email arrived she couldnt open it. So she had to waste time 
calling Aviva again and then waiting for the ROP to be posted. Aviva said it posted the ROP 
to Mrs W on 14 April 2023.
After receiving the ROP, Mrs W said she called Aviva again on 21 April 2023 as the next 
stage of the process required her to contact it to tell it how she wanted to take her pension. 
She said Aviva told her that it would take about ten working days to issue a quotation and 
forms for her to sign for the option shed chosen.
Mrs W said that as shed not received the forms by 11 May 2023, she called Aviva. During 
the first call, shed felt that the Aviva representative didnt seem to have any idea what was 
happening. So shed decided to call again to try to find out exactly when shed get the forms. 
Mrs W said that the second Aviva representative couldnt find her earlier request on the 
system. But hed agreed to find out what was happening and get back to her.
Mrs W said that the second Aviva representative had emailed and called her to let her know 
that the forms hadnt been issued due to a systems error, which had led to her request being 
marked as completed. She said Aviva told her that the forms may take five working days to 
reach her.
Aviva said it logged a complaint from Mrs W on 11 May 2023. Mrs W said that the paperwork 
should be either couriered to her, or at least sent first-class. She also wanted Aviva to 
guarantee the current value of her funds until she could take her tax-free cash. And felt that 
it should increase the compensation for distress and inconvenience to £250.
Aviva wrote to Mrs W on 11 May 2023 about her request to access her pension savings. It 
said that she wanted to take 25% of her fund as tax-free cash. Then designate the remaining 
funds into Income Drawdown, after which an ad hoc payment of £100 was to be taken from 
her Income Drawdown pot.
Mrs W said shed still not received the forms by 17 May 2023 so she emailed Aviva to find 
out what was going on. As it didnt reply, she said shed called Aviva on 19 May 2023. She 
said that Avivas representative printed a copy of the forms and posted them first-class. And 
that she received them on 20 May 2023. She said she completed and returned them that 
day.
Aviva said it received the completed forms on 23 May 2023. And that it put Mrs Ws plan is 
put into drawdown, and made the £100 ad hoc payment shed requested, on 25 May 2023. 
Aviva wrote to Mrs W on 25 May 2023 to confirm that it had set up her Income Drawdown 
pot and paid her tax-free cash sum. It sent a second letter the same day to tell Mrs W it had 
set up the £100 ad hoc income payment. 
Aviva issued its final response to the complaint on 1 June 2023. It acknowledged that itd 
given Mrs W incorrect information on 4 April 2023 about whether shed be able to open the 
emailed ROP. It also acknowledged that Mrs W was unhappy that itd taken so long to post 
her chosen quotes. It said it shouldve sent them sooner, by first-class post. 
Aviva apologised that its service had fallen short. And paid Mrs W £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience the delay and the incorrect information had caused. It also carried out a loss 
calculation to ensure that Mrs W hadnt lost out financially. It said this assessment showed 
that the delay had caused her pension to increase by £274.32. 
Mrs W said she received another set of forms on 2 June 2023. She felt these were the ones 
shed requested to be sent by courier or first-class post on 11 May 2023. And that this 
therefore showed that they hadnt been sent by the requested first-class post.
Unhappy with Avivas response to her complaint, Mrs W brought her complaint to this 
service on 9 June 2023. She didnt think the £50 compensation itd paid her was sufficient 
given the trouble and upset caused. She felt £250 compensation would be more appropriate. 
Mrs W said that shed wasted a considerable amount of time trying to get this sorted out. 
And that she was also very worried that she wouldnt receive the tax-free cash in time to pay 
an outstanding balance that was due. 
Before he considered the merits of the complaint, our investigator asked Aviva if it was 
willing to offer Mrs W the £250 compensation she felt was fair. Aviva said it didnt think that 
level of compensation was proportionate given the short period of the delay. And because 
Mrs W hadnt lost out financially.
Our investigator didnt think that Aviva should be required to increase its compensation offer. 
He was satisfied that Mrs W hadnt suffered a financial loss. And that for complaints where 
administrative errors occurred, £50 was within the realm of what he would otherwise have 
recommended. Therefore, while he acknowledged that Mrs W had needed to make a 
number of calls and write a number of emails to get things sorted out, he felt that the 
compensation Aviva had paid was reasonable under the circumstances. He also noted that 
Mrs Ws pension fund had gone up in value because of the delay.
Mrs W didnt agree with our investigator. She made the following points:
- She didnt think the gain in the value of her pension fund after the delay was relevant to her complaint about Avivas maladministration.
- Aviva had incorrectly told her on 4 April 2023 that she wouldnt need software to 
open the Retirement Options Pack. But she did need that. 
- She said that neither Aviva nor our investigator had mentioned in their findings that 
shed had to call Aviva twice on 11 May 2023. She felt this meant that her request 
hadnt simply been delayed, but thered been a complete failure to issue the forms 
due to a lack of proper controls. She felt that if she hadnt chased the forms shed still 
be waiting for them now.
Mrs W said that this, and the further delays, had caused her to become distressed and 
anxious about her funds reducing in value due to market movements. She said she needed 
her tax-free cash to pay an outstanding balance and was also concerned that she wouldnt 
receive it in time. So she emailed Aviva to ask it to protect the capital value of her fund. But 
she felt it had ignored her request, adding to her distress.
- Mrs W also said she disagreed with our investigators sentiment that using financial 
services firms isnt expected to be entirely hassle free. She felt that it wasnt 
unreasonable to expect Aviva to deal with her request efficiently and in a timely 
manner.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. I consider that Aviva has already 
taken reasonable steps to put things right. I know this will be disappointing to Mrs W. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
Its not in dispute that Aviva gave Mrs W incorrect information about the email it was sending 
her on 4 April 2023. Or that it caused delays to Mrs W accessing her pension benefits when 
it didnt send her the required forms as quickly as it should have. And didnt send the forms 
by first-class post as Mrs W has requested.
Where a business has made an offer to settle a complaint  as Aviva has done here  what I 
have to decide is whether, in all the circumstances, that offer is fair and reasonable.
In this case, Aviva has carried out a loss assessment which showed that Mrs W hadnt lost 
out financially due to the delay. And has paid her £50 compensation for the delay and the 
incorrect information. 
Mrs W doesnt consider that Avivas trouble and upset payment of £50 is fair. She thinks that 
£250 compensation would be more appropriate, as shed wasted a considerable amount of 
time trying to sort things out. And because shed been very worried that she wouldnt receive 
the tax-free cash in time to pay an outstanding balance that was due. 
When a business does something wrong, and makes an offer, this service will assess 
whether the offer is sufficient to fairly put things right. We want, as far as reasonably 
possible, to put Mrs W back into the position she wouldve been in but for the delays and the 
incorrect information Aviva gave her. Aviva said that it felt the tax-free cash and the ad-hoc lump sum couldve been paid out 
using an effective date of 5 May 2023 if it hadnt caused any delays. From what Ive seen, 
this seems a reasonable timeline which takes into account Avivas usual turnaround times. 
Aviva calculated that Mrs W was £274.32 better off because the payments had been 
delayed. So she hadnt lost out financially. 
Mrs W didnt think that the fact that shed gained in the value of her pension fund after the 
delay was relevant to her complaint about Avivas maladministration. I can see why she 
thinks this, and why she feels any gain shouldnt be used to offset the correct amount of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience that should be paid. Ill consider that amount 
later on in my decision.
Mrs W also said that she disagreed with our investigators sentiment that using financial 
services firms isnt expected to be entirely hassle free. She felt that it wasnt unreasonable 
to expect Aviva to deal with her request efficiently and in a timely manner. 
I take Mrs Ws point. But I also note that financial transactions like the one Mrs W wanted to 
be processed are relatively complex and do require some time and effort from both the 
consumer and the business to complete.
Mrs W also told me that neither Aviva nor our investigator had noted that shed had to call 
Aviva twice on 11 May 2023. She felt this meant there had been a complete failure to issue 
the forms due to a lack of proper controls. And that without her intervention, shed still be 
waiting for them now.
Aviva told Mrs W that the reason her request hadnt been completed was that thered been a 
systems error which had led to her request being marked as completed.
Unfortunately, its not always possible to prevent such errors from happening. When they do 
occur, we expect businesses to put customers back into the position they would otherwise 
have been in if the systems error hadnt occurred.
In this case, Mrs W received the forms shed requested on 20 May 2023. Aviva has 
acknowledged that it delayed the provision of the forms. And has carried out a loss 
calculation which showed that Mrs W hadnt lost out because of the delay. 
Ive gone on to look into the distress and inconvenience Avivas errors have caused Mrs W 
and the impact this has had on her. 
Distress and Inconvenience
Aviva gave Mrs W incorrect information during the 4 April 2023 call about whether the ROP 
would be a zipped file or not. Aviva also failed to send Mrs W forms by first-class post 
despite her specific request. These both contributed to the delay to Mrs W tax-free cash and 
ad hoc payment from her pension.
Mrs W said that the need for her to repeatedly call Aviva to move things forward, and the 
delays, caused her distress. She said shed spent about three hours on the phone to Aviva. 
She also became anxious about the value of her funds going down before she could take 
her tax-free cash. 
I can therefore see why Mrs W asked Aviva to guarantee the value of her funds when she 
made her complaint. But Im satisfied that, even though Aviva didnt reply to Mrs W directly 
about this request, it effectively did protect the value of her fund. I say this because Aviva agreed to carry out a loss assessment for Mrs W. And this ensured that she received at least 
the amount she wouldve been paid if nothing had gone wrong.  
Mrs W also said she needed her tax-free cash because she had a payment to make. I can 
understand why she became anxious that she wouldnt receive the money on time. But I 
understand that she was able to make the payment without missing out. 
Overall, while I know Mrs W will be disappointed by my decision, Im satisfied that Aviva has 
taken reasonable steps to put things right here. I acknowledge that Avivas actions and 
incorrect information led to delays in the payment of Mrs Ws money, and caused her anxiety 
and frustration, but Im satisfied shes not lost out financially. I can also note that the delay 
was relatively short.
Therefore I consider that the £50 compensation Aviva has already paid Mrs W in respect of 
the distress and inconvenience it has caused her is fair and reasonable. I dont require Aviva 
to take any further steps to put things right. And I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman