DRN-3942288
The complaint
Mr C complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim he made on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C holds a motor insurance policy with AXA. When he mis-fuelled his car he made a 
claim. AXA accepted the claim and arranged for Mr Cs car to be repaired. AXA arranged 
this to be carried out by one of its agents, who Ill call X.
X initially thought Mr Cs car would be unrepairable and deemed a total loss. AXA let him 
know this, and as a result said a higher excess was due. But Mr C didnt think this was right 
because his car was working fine before he mis-fuelled it.
Mr Cs car was repairable, so AXA arranged to repair it via X. While his car was being 
repaired, Mr C was provided a courtesy car. But when his car was returned to him, he 
noticed damage to it, which he felt was caused by X.
Who caused the damage was debated between AXA and X for some time, but eventually 
Mr Cs car was taken in to have the damage repaired. But, unlike the first time his car was 
with X, he wasnt given a replacement vehicle. Both AXA and X said this was because of a 
national shortage of them.
Mr C wasnt happy with the whole experience. Hes said it took a further six weeks to sort out 
the issues he felt X caused, and during this time he had to borrow cars from his family and 
friends.
Aviva acknowledged it could have done more and offered Mr C a total of £250 
compensation. But Mr C remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended it be upheld. He didnt think £250 was a fair reflection 
of the trouble and upset caused. He thought £400 was a fairer amount to pay Mr C.
But Mr C didnt think this was enough and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He thinks 
£800 would be an appropriate amount to compensate him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. In summary, I too find that £400 is a fair amount of 
compensation in the circumstances of this complaint. I understand this will disappoint Mr C. 
Ill explain my reasoning.
The details of whats happened during this claim are known to both Mr C and AXA, 
theyre not in dispute, so Im not going to detail them in this decision. What is in 
dispute is the amount AXA need to compensate for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Mr C was given a courtesy car for the initial repairs. But he was also informed 
incorrectly that hed need to pay a higher excess and his car would be written off. I 
imagine that caused some distress.
Mr Cs car was also damaged while in AXAs care, that too would cause distress. 
And hes been inconvenienced by being without a replacement vehicle for around six 
weeks while this work was being carried out. And even then, while it was returned in 
a roadworthy condition, not all the issues were resolved  furthering both the distress 
and inconvenience.
I understand during this time Mr C had access to other vehicles from family and 
friends. So, I do think this does lessen the impact being without his own car had on 
him. But at the same time, I understand having to borrow one from family and/or 
friends is, in its own way, inconvenient. I appreciate too that Mr C says this impacted 
his family and friends. That may well be the case, but Im only able to look at the 
impact AXAs actions had on him, not his family and friends.
On the whole, Im satisfied that a total compensation payment of £400 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay Mr C an additional £150 compensation  taking the total compensation to £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman