DRN-3901538
The complaint
Mr F complains that the payment terms on a Hire Purchase Agreement (HPA) he took out 
with Marsh Finance Ltd (MF) are incorrect. He would like to cancel his agreement and have 
a refund of all payments he has made.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I  appreciate Mr Fs concern when he realised the figures on paperwork supplied to 
him when he took out a HPA with MP dont match. Having looked at the relevant 
paperwork he is correct that the figures differ. The HPA states a monthly payment 
figure of £315.80 with a final payment of £714.80. These figures match the welcome 
letter sent to him when he took out his agreement . However, the figures on a 
compliance form and order form give a monthly payment figure of £278.61. Looking 
at the figures it seems to me the HPA and welcome letter figures  include interest 
whilst the other documents refer only to the cost price of the vehicle.. I dont think the 
figures are wrong, but it would have been clearer if the all the documents had the 
same figures or if they expressly said what the figures covered. 
However, the legally binding document Mr F signed is the HPA. This document also 
states Mr Fs right to withdraw from the agreement within 14 days , this information is 
also included in the pre contract information supplied to Mr F which he signed. And 
the welcome letter confirmed the payments. From what I have seen I do believe Mr F 
has been paying the correct monthly payments and that he was made aware of his 
right to withdraw, which if he wasnt happy with the monthly figure, he could have 
done so, but didnt. So, I have no grounds to tell MF to unwind his agreement. And it 
wouldnt be appropriate to refund all the payments Mr F has made as he has had use 
of the car.
I appreciate Mr F is now saying his signature was forged but I have no evidence of 
this. Mr F took out his agreement in 2019 then raised his complaint with MF in 2022 . 
He also raised a different complaint with MF in 2020 so he must know he is in a 
contract with MF. However, if Mr F feels fraud has been committed that is something 
it would be more appropriate to raise with the police.
Finally, I understand Mr F isnt happy with the warranty on the car. I cant consider 
this part of his complaint to two reasons. Firstly, the warranty wasnt part of his 
finance agreement so its not something MF Is responsible for. Secondly Mr F raised 
this in 2020 with MF. In MFs final response letter, it gave Mr F details of his right to 
come to our service within six months. As Mr F didnt do so he is out of time to now 
complain about this issue. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman