DRN-3929849
The complaint
Mrs A complains she was mis-sold a bond by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), an appointed 
representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium). She believes the bond was 
mis-sold because she thought the bond was low risk and she wasnt given appropriate risk 
warnings.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mrs A invested in a B&G Plc 3 Year Compounding High Yield IFISA Bond. Sales of this bond 
were dealt with by BG Ltd, a separate business from Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc), the 
issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bond, through a 
website it operated. And it was responsible for advertising/marketing the bond. Potential 
investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium. B&G Plc and BG Ltd 
were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mrs As investment in the bond
Mrs A found out about Basset & Gold and its products when she did a search on the internet 
while looking for accounts with higher interest rates. She made her application online on 26 
October 2017.
Mrs A confirmed to an investigator at this service that she didnt have any investment 
experience and she invested all her savings into these bonds. The investigator shared a 
recording of his conversation with Mrs A with Gallium.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mrs A 
has not had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
Mrs A made her application on 26 October 2017 and I have seen screen prints of each stage 
of the online application process. These show the application journey that she underwent. 
This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the rules restricting who the bond could be 
promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the potential 
investor. The first was certification, where Mrs A was categorised as an everyday investor. 
The second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mrs As complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mrs As complaint. It said shed been given sufficient information and 
risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mrs As 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full and Ive also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs As complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mrs A as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for her - was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mrs A wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mrs A to invest. For these reasons, both 
cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to 
compensate Mrs A for the loss she has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mrs As complaint.
The website and marketing material was not misleading - Mrs A was given sufficient 
information and risk warnings.
Regardless of label, Mrs A was required to confirm that she met the requirements of 
a restricted investor and confirmed that she did. It is not fair or reasonable to 
conclude that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mrs A giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for Gallium 
to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of 
the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mrs A made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and 
did not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So she would have proceeded with the investment regardless.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I 
have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mrs A into certifying herself as belonging 
in a category to which she did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the 
term used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being 
one anyone could fall into. This was not treating her fairly or acting in her best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled her, it is unlikely she would 
have certified herself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mrs A. In the circumstances Mrs A would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to Mrs A.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mrs As complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mrs A would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so, I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mrs A for her loss.
I also believe the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mrs A was significant enough to 
warrant a compensation payment, so I agree with the investigators findings on this as well 
and details are provided below.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs A 
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not invested in the bond.
I take the view that Mrs A would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs A's circumstances and objectives when she invested.What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs A fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mrs A's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay Mrs A £350 for the total loss of the investment capital. Mrs A was living on a 
minimal pension. She explained the loss of the investment capital and promised 
return has caused a great deal of stress on her given her age and circumstances.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B&G Plc 3 
Year 
Compounding 
High Yield 
IFISA BondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs A agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mrs A that she repays to Gallium any amount she 
may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:Mrs A wanted to achieve a reasonable return and I dont think she wanted to take 
significant risk.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs A's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs A would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs A in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman