DRN-2769963
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) recorded inaccurate 
information with credit reference agencies which resulted in his mortgage application being 
declined.
Mr A is represented by another party in bringing this complaint. But Ive referred to all 
comments and evidence as being made by Mr A directly.
What happened
Mr A had identified a property that he wanted to buy with his partner. So, in August 2020, he 
contacted a broker to arrange a mortgage. He told the advisor that they had a 10% deposit 
available and were looking for a 90% mortgage.
But the broker said that their application had been declined. He told them to contact two 
credit reference agencies. The broker said that Mr A had an outstanding loan which was 
causing the rejection.
Having completed the credit reference searches, Mr A saw that there was a loan with 
Yorkshire Bank. He said that the loan had been arranged in 2012 and was paid off in 2015. 
He didnt understand why this was still shown as outstanding.
Mr A visited Yorkshire Bank to ask about the error in his credit file. The bank told him that 
the reports were incorrect and that their systems showed the loan had been repaid. So, Mr A 
made a formal complaint to Yorkshire Bank.
Initially, Yorkshire Bank said that the fault on the reports wasnt their issue and there was 
nothing they could do. So, Mr A continued to contact them in an attempt to find someone 
who clearly understood the problem and could deal with his complaint.
Eventually, Yorkshire Bank said the problem may be linked to a period when they had 
changed their systems. They agreed the loan shouldnt still be reporting as outstanding. 
They said that theyd correct the information recorded. However, the complaint process 
lasted over two months. During this time, the house they wanted to buy was sold to 
someone else.
Yorkshire Bank wrote to Mr A in October 2020. They agreed that theyd made a mistake and 
apologised for the way that his complaint had been handled. They paid compensation of 
£175 into Mr As current account with them.
Mr A wasnt happy with the compensation offer. He said that he could only get an 85% 
mortgage rather than the 90% he wanted. He thinks that the bank should compensate him 
for this difference. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
Since referring his complaint, Yorkshire Bank have increased their offer of compensation to 
£500. One of our investigators has looked into his complaint. She agreed that Yorkshire 
Bank made a mistake here and that this meant that Mr A and his partner couldnt obtain a 
90% mortgage as a result. But she didnt think the bank needed to do anything more. So, Mr 
A has asked for his case to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional on this complaint on 31 March 2020 and explained why I intended to 
uphold it. This is what I said then:
Yorkshire Bank have agreed that they made mistakes. Theyve said that the loan 
shouldve been recorded as fully settled in early 2015 and theyve corrected this. 
Theyve also apologised for the delays and problems in how Mr As complaint was 
handled. So, my decision will be based upon whether I think that Yorkshire Banks 
mistake led to the decline of a 90% mortgage and whether their compensation offer 
is appropriate in this case.
I have seen a screenshot of the mortgage decline decision from 14 August 2020. It 
says that the lender is unable to lend to your applicant(s). It goes on to say The 
application has been declined as it has failed credit score. This is not necessarily due 
to adverse bureau information. It also says that this is Based on a loan amount of 
£139,950.00 at 87.50% LTV. This means that Mr As application didnt meet the 
criteria set by the lender in this case and may not be because of information recorded 
at the credit reference agencies. It also shows that the mortgage application wasnt 
for 90% of the purchase value of the property.
Mr A provided copies of his credit reference agency reports from July and August 
2020. The reports show the outstanding loan to the bank and its history. It also 
shows that the loan was settled on 4 February 2015. But the monthly reports show 
£47 outstanding. There are other finance arrangements detailed but there is no 
evidence of any defaults or similar. 
I fully appreciate Mr As frustration and concern about the error that was made here. 
Finding incorrect information recorded about you at credit reference agencies can be 
very worrying. Its clear that the bank made a mistake. Because of this, I can see why 
he thinks that this caused the declined mortgage. 
But there are many other factors that impact upon a mortgage application. Each 
lender uses their own criteria. This is tailored to the product they are offering, the 
customers they wish to attract and the market circumstances. Their assessment 
criteria can change regularly. The decision process would consider a range of factors 
about the applicant. The information on a credit file is only one part of that. It wouldnt 
necessarily lead to an agreement or decline on its own.
The mortgage decline report is quite clear on this aspect. So, unlike our investigator, 
I dont think its fair to say that this is the sole reason Mr A couldnt obtain the type of 
mortgage he wanted, even if it may have contributed to any overall decision that was 
made. Mr A has offered to provide evidence from a mortgage lender that his 
application was refused solely because of a hard search footprint on his credit file. 
He also said he would provide details of the mortgage offer he took out as a result, 
together with an illustration of the 90% mortgage that was declined. 
But this information hasnt been received, despite giving Mr A a fair period of time to 
do so. So, my decision can only be based upon what has already been provided, 
which doesnt make me think that Yorkshire Banks mistake here was solely 
responsible for the decline of the mortgage.
A credit reference search report dated October 2020 now shows that there is nothing 
outstanding to Yorkshire Bank. This confirms that they corrected their mistake. But 
despite further mortgage applications, Mr A and his partner say that they have been 
unable to get an agreement for a 90% mortgage. Mr A thinks this is due to Yorkshire 
Banks error causing the decline for the mortgage they applied for and the record on 
his credit files. As Ive explained, I dont think Yorkshire Bank can be held responsible for the decline 
here, but it may also help to explain that there wouldnt be any reference to a 
declined application or the reasons why on Mr As credit file. Only that he had applied 
for a mortgage.
So, its unlikely that a single record of an application would lead to the decline of a 
mortgage, as an isolated marker on a credit file. But in any event, Yorkshire Bank 
has put things right now and written to Mr A explaining this. Mr A is free to show this 
correspondence to any lenders he approached to explain the situation and see if they 
might take any further action  but I can only consider Mr As complaint about 
Yorkshire Bank and theres nothing that means I think itd be fair for them to take any 
further action here.
Its clear that this whole situation has caused Mr A and his partner considerable 
distress and upset though. The fact that they lost a house that they were looking 
forward to buying and living together in, would be hugely disappointing. Also, I think 
that Yorkshire Bank couldve handled the whole situation better than they did. Their 
delays in addressing the mistake have added to Mr As worries. 
For the reasons above, I agree that Yorkshire Banks initial payment of £175 
compensation wasnt enough. I am pleased to see that they have now offered to 
increase this amount to £500. I think this is fair and its in line with what I would 
expect in these circumstances. So, I appreciate that Mr A will be disappointed, but I 
cant conclude that Yorkshire Bank caused the decline of the 90% mortgage 
application. So, I shant be asking Yorkshire Bank to pay any more here.
I invited both Mr A and Yorkshire Bank to make any final points, if they wanted, before 
issuing my final decision. Mr A said that he would continue trying to obtain more information 
to support his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has continued in his attempts to obtain more information from his mortgage broker. He 
felt that this would help to demonstrate that Yorkshire Banks mistakes specifically led to his 
inability to secure a 90% mortgage. In particular, Mr A requested:
evidence that their mortgage application was refused solely because of a hard 
search footprint,
a copy of the mortgage offer taken with another lender,
a copy of the mortgage illustration for a 90% mortgage that was declined and
supporting evidence that after his credit file was amended, they applied to another 
mortgage lender.
Mr A has still been unable to provide any of this information. So, hes now agreed that a 
decision can be issued based upon the information already provided by him and Yorkshire 
Bank.
Yorkshire Bank responded to confirm that they have nothing further to add and are satisfied 
with my Provisional Decision.
I do appreciate that Mr A will be disappointed, but the lack of additional evidence or 
information means that I havent changed my mind. So, the conclusions set out above in my 
provisional findings remain unchanged and I will be upholding Mr As complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr As complaint.
I require Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) to pay Mr A compensation of £500 
to include the £175 already offered to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman