DRN-4290834
The complaint
Mrs K is represented by her son, Mr T. She complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
released a jointly held safe deposit box to her daughter without her consent.
What happened
Mrs K and her daughter arranged to have a safe deposit box with NatWest in 2008. In 
February 2023 Mrs Ks daughter went to the bank to request that the safe deposit box be 
released to her. The box was in joint names and NatWests terms and conditions said that 
the box could be released to either party unless the bank had been given specific 
instructions to the contrary. There were no such instructions in this case but the bank 
manager nevertheless decided to carry out due diligence and to speak to Mrs K. Her 
daughter explained that she had no objection to that but that she and Mrs K were not on 
speaking terms.
I understand that Mrs K does not speak English but the bank manager spoke her language 
and spoke with her. She told him that the contents of the box belonged to her daughter. The 
manager asked if he could release the contents of the box to her daughter but Mrs K said 
that she wanted to speak to her son first. The manager called back and spoke to Mr T who 
said that Mrs K was not available and he could not give a date or time when she would be.  
I believe there was a later call when Mr T advised that Mrs K wished to be present when her 
daughter opened the box. The manager called his area manager and it was decided that the 
contents of the box could be released to Mrs Ks daughter, and this was arranged.
Sometime later Mrs K and Mr T visited the branch and asked for the contents of the box to 
be released to them. Mr T said that Mrs K had been confused and that some of the contents 
of the box belonged to her The manager explained that the contents had been released to 
the daughter.
Mrs K complained to NatWest. She said that there was now a dispute over the items in the 
box which was causing difficulties over inheritance. NatWest said, in its final response letter, 
that a bank decision had been taken to release the contents of the box to her daughter, as 
Mrs K had confirmed on a number of occasions that the contents belonged to her daughter.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that she was satisfied 
that NatWest had released the box to one of the account holders in line with the terms and 
conditions. It took identification to verify it was releasing the box to one of the account 
holders and she was satisfied itd acted reasonably.
Mrs K did not agree, and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, as this is a complaint concerning a jointly held safe deposit box, we would 
normally expect both parties to agree to the complaint being made. However as those 
parties are in dispute I've decided to consider the complaint without asking Mrs K's daughter 
to join in.
The terms and conditions of the account say that the items can be released to the order of 
any one of the parties to the account, unless the Bank has been given specific instructions 
to the contrary. I can't see that any such instructions had been given to Nat West prior to 
Mrs K's daughter asking for the box to be released to her. So the branch manager could 
have released the box straight away. Nevertheless he decided to speak to Mrs K. His 
testimony is that Mrs K confirmed several times that the contents of the box belonged to her 
daughter. The manager formed the opinion that the daughter was genuine and that they 
both, as joint holders of the box agreed that the contents of the box belonged to her. He did 
attempt to get Mrs Ks consent to releasing the box to her daughter but formed the opinion 
that it was Mr T, rather than Mrs K, who was objecting to giving that consent.
This was not a straightforward case of the bank being notified of a dispute between the 
parties and releasing the box to one party despite that. From my review of the evidence, 
I think the manager had to make a judgement as to whether to release the box to Mrs K's 
daughter. And in making that judgement, he decided that, having had a good conversation 
with Mrs K, both she and her daughter agreed that the contents of the box belonged to her 
daughter. Based on that, he sought the authority of his area manager to release the box and 
did so.
I appreciate that Mrs K did not give her consent to the box being released to her daughter. 
But I am satisfied that NatWest acted within the terms and conditions of the account and on 
the managers judgement that the contents of the box belonged to Mrs Ks daughter. Whilst 
I understand that Mr T tells us that's disputed, I think it was reasonable of the manager to act 
on what he was told at the time.
I understand that Mrs K is upset. But I think that the branch manager was entitled, in a 
difficult case, to use his judgement as to whether or not to release the box, which he was 
permitted by the terms to do.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman