DRN-3598401
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that NewDay Ltd placed a fraud marker against his name.
What happened
Mr R held a credit card with NewDay. In January 2019 several card payments were 
attempted to pay off the balance on Mr Rs account. Later, NewDay was informed by a third-
party business that these payments were fraudulent.
After a review of Mr Rs account, NewDay decided to close his facility and load a fraud 
marker against his name using the Cifas database.
Later, Mr R became aware of this marker and made a complaint. Mr R told NewDay that he 
wasnt responsible for the transactions attempted and said that there were several occasions 
where his card could have been compromised.
NewDay reviewed Mr Rs complaint but decided not to uphold it. It felt that the withdrawal of 
the credit facility, and its decision to load the fraud marker, were correct.
Mr R remained unhappy with NewDays decision, so he referred his complaint to our service. 
An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties but concluded that 
NewDay had acted fairly. Broadly, they felt that NewDay had adhered to the requirements 
set out by Cifas to load the marker.
As Mr R didnt agree with the assessment, the matter has now been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations here are set out by Cifas: the fraud marker database controller. 
In its Handbookwhich members must adhere to when loading markersit sets out the 
burden of proof the member must meet. At the time, the relevant standards regarding this 
complaint are:
1. That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted.
2. That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member 
[NewDay] could confidently report the conduct of the subject [Mr R] to the police.
When considering these standards, my interpretation of the bar for recording a Cifas marker 
is a high one. I must also take into consideration what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Having done so, I find that the marker placed against Mr Rs name was done 
so fairly here: Ill explain why.
Firstly, Im satisfied that the first of the above two requirements has been met. Im unable to 
disclose in detail the information NewDay has received regarding the suspicious 
transactions, but Im satisfied that there were a number of attempted payments into Mr Rs 
credit account from several sources that have been confirmed as fraud. 
The second requirement, in my view, can only be satisfied where NewDay has strong 
evidence to support Mr Rs witting involvement in the conduct reported. It doesnt have to 
prove this beyond all reasonable doubt, but it must demonstrate more than mere suspicion 
of Mr Rs involvement.
Mr R has provided a number of possible ways in which a third-party may have been able to 
access his credit card. And he thinks this is likely the way in which his account was 
compromised, and the payments attempted. But Im not persuaded this is a likely 
explanation.
On both examples Mr R has given, his credit card was either lost for a short period of time 
and then found, or hed left his card unattended. Had a third-party accessed his card on 
either of these occasions, the following points cant reasonably be explained:
Why they decided to pay off the balance of his credit card rather than utilise his 
banking facilities.
How they would have accessed the fraudulently obtained funds after the amounts 
were credited to Mr Rs account considering they only had access to the card.
How they could have known the balance on the account, ensuring they were able to 
place it into credit and utilise the funds.
Why they would have placed the card back into Mr Rs possession after theyd stolen 
it.
Ive also considered the possibility, as these payments were attempted rather than 
successful, that the person carrying them out had put the incorrect details of the account 
where they intended to send them.
While I think this is possible in cases where one attempted payment is made, I find it less 
likely in circumstances where multiple transactions are attempted from different sources. 
For the above reasons, Im not persuaded that a third-party compromise of the account is 
likely. So, I dont think NewDays decision to load Mr R to the Cifas database was 
unreasonable when considering the requirements set out.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman