DRN-3030510
The complaint
Miss J complained that UK Credit Limited irresponsibly provided her with an unaffordable 
loan.
What happened
UK Credit provided Miss J with a loan as follows:
Date Loan 
amountTerm 
(months)Monthly 
repayment
15 November
2017£6,000.00 48 £230.40
Miss J said that when she took out the loan she was already under a lot of stress and with 
other loans she had taken out with payday lenders she was caught in a vicious circle of 
borrowing more money to pay off her other loans. 
When Miss J complained to UK Credit it didnt uphold her complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Js complaint. He didnt uphold the complaint.
Through her representative, Miss J disagreed with our investigator and asked for a final 
decision from an ombudsman. So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. 
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think 
about whether there was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable 
way.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether UK Credit did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Miss J and thought carefully about the following key questions:
Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss 
Js loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown?
Did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?UK Credit gathered some information from Miss J about her income and expenses before it 
agreed the loan and looked at a recent payslip. It also checked Miss Js credit file to 
understand her existing monthly credit commitments and credit history.
UK Credit was satisfied that its checks showed it could rely on Miss J receiving a minimum 
net income of around £2,589 over the course of a typical month. Miss J said she paid £500 
rent.
When assessing affordability, UK Credit took into account statistical data that showed what 
someone in Miss Js circumstances would typically need to pay each month towards general 
living costs and recorded a figure of approximately £573 on regular outgoings. UK Credit 
made allowance for Miss J spending around £555 on her existing credit commitments. It 
worked out that even after paying for its loan, Miss J should still have around £600 spare 
cash left over each month. On this basis, UK Credit concluded that the monthly repayments 
for its loan were affordable for Miss J.
I think that UK Credits income and expenditure calculation was broadly fair and reasonable - 
and on these figures alone, I can see why it concluded that the loan looked potentially 
affordable for Miss J. 
But given the loan term and amount, and bearing in mind that with the monthly repayments 
Miss J would need to make towards this loan on top of her other credit, she would have to 
pay a significant proportion of her disposable income towards servicing debt, I think UK 
Credit ought to have had concerns about Miss Js finances. 
As well as this, UK Credit saw from its own credit checks that there was a recent default 
showing on her credit file - plus a default dating back to 2016. I've listened carefully to the 
call recording when UK Credit called Miss J to talk her through the loan application. I think 
its fair to say that she struggled to explain the defaults  she said she didnt know what they 
related to or how they could have happened as she paid all her bills when they came in, 
either bit by bit or all at once, and she never missed any payment.
For these reasons, like our investigator, I think UK Credit ought to have been concerned 
enough to do more in-depth checks before it agreed to provide this loan.
To my mind, UK Credits checks should have included a full review of Miss Js financial 
circumstances and, in particular, further verification of her expenditure so it could ensure that 
the loan repayments should be affordable over the term of the loan.
But although I dont think the checks UK Credit did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, 
thats not enough of a reason on its own for me to be able to uphold Miss Js complaint. 
I also need to be able to say that if UK Credit had done what I consider to be proportionate 
checks, these would have shown UK Credit that Miss J couldnt sustainably afford the 
repayments.When she complained to UK Credit, Miss J provided bank statements covering the period 
running up to her taking out this loan. I think these are a useful guide to help me understand 
what UK Credit was likely to have found out about her overall financial situation had it carried 
out more in-depth checks at the time.
I havent seen anything in the information available to me which shows UK Credit would 
have decided not to agree this loan even if it had carried out a proportionate check before 
agreeing to provide the loan. I say this because, although Miss Js bank statements show 
that she had two loans outstanding with other providers of payday lending and high cost 
loans, she should still have had enough surplus cash each month to be able to afford all her 
monthly repayments. 
And thinking generally about what its credit checks showed, UK Credit was aware that 
Miss J had a large amount of available unused credit on credit cards, she had no overdraft 
facility on any of her current accounts and the bank statements she provided showed she 
wasnt overdrawn on that account in the months running up to her taking out this loan. 
Whilst it was evident that Miss J had multiple lines of credit, and a long established record of 
using credit, all her active accounts seemed to be well managed. She told UK Credit that she 
liked to clear her cards when she could. This seems to be reflected in the credit report 
UK Credit obtained showing a balance of just £539 across three of her credit cards and nil 
balances on three other cards with available credit almost £1,500. Her store cards were also 
all well within the account limits and there was no sign that making the payments due was a 
problem for Miss J.   
I do think the recent utility default was concerning and there were unanswered questions 
about both the defaults and why they had happened. But it isnt unusual for applicants for 
this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing other borrowing or an impaired 
credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be sufficient reason to prompt a 
responsible lender to decline a loan application if the loan otherwise looked affordable. 
Miss J wasnt shown as being in bankruptcy and there was no record of any county court 
judgement to suggest any serious financial difficulty.   
I can see from the bank statements that Miss J was making transfers from another account. 
But she hasnt provided any further information about her financial situation to make me 
think that UK Credit would likely have seen evidence that Miss J was already having serious 
problems managing her debt when she applied for this loan. 
Thinking about everything, I am unable to safely conclude that UK Credit gave Miss J a loan 
that it should have realised was unaffordable for her or that it was otherwise unfair to lend.
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Miss J, but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions. In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account everything Miss Js representative had said 
in response to our investigators view, including what it said about the way other complaints 
have been dealt with. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits  no two complaints 
are likely to be identical in every way and the outcome on each will depend on its own facts. 
Ive looked at the circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on 
other cases doesnt change my conclusion here.  
Im very sorry that Miss J had a problem with debt and that making the repayments on this 
loan turned out to be difficult for her. I accept that, in reality, Miss Js actual circumstances 
possibly werent fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the other information 
UK Credit obtained. But thats not enough for me to be able to uphold her complaint. 
I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. In this case, I dont think that UK 
Credit did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to Miss J. And I havent seen enough 
to make me think that UK Credit acted towards Miss J in any other way that wasnt fair and 
reasonable. So for these reasons, Im not planning on upholding Miss Js complaint. 
If Miss J is still facing money problems and she would like help to manage her finances or to 
speak to someone about her situation generally, theres more information about how to get 
free debt advice and other help on our website  or we can provide contact details if she 
gives us a call.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman