DRN-3971821
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC changed his address to his daughters address 
without his authority and provided him with poor customer service.
What happened
Mr G had been helping his daughter and son-in-law with a mortgage application and 
unbeknownst to Mr G, his address was changed on his account. Mr G only found out when 
he was checking the Barclays application (app), that he saw his address had been changed 
to his daughters address. Mr G says he rang the bank to enquire why his details had been 
changed and he says the call handler told him that as it was family it was okay. Mr Gs 
address was then corrected. Mr G says he asked the call handler to raise a complaint, but 
he was told he had to write to Barclays, so he made another call to Barclays, explained the 
situation and they told Mr G it was impossible and put the phone down. Mr G made a 
complaint to Barclays.
Barclays upheld Mr Gs complaint. They said they agreed the call handlers were dismissive 
of Mr Gs concerns. They said the address was changed around the time his daughters 
mortgage was completed, but they were unable to pinpoint how or why this occurred, but this 
was an error. Barclays offered Mr G £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
this caused him. Mr G brought his complaint to our service and said he wanted £1,000 
compensation. Our investigator thought the £350 that Barclays had offered Mr G was fair. 
She said Barclays acknowledged there was a drop in the service provided, apologised for it, 
taken feedback onboard, and logged a data breach. Mr G asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr Gs address was changed to his son-in-law and daughters address in error, Im 
not persuaded that this would make what happened less distressing for Mr G. It could even 
be argued that despite him acting as a guarantor on their mortgage, it may be more 
distressing that his bank statements were being delivered to them as they would have been 
able to see exactly how much money that Mr G had in his accounts and how he was 
managing his money. So the data breach here did cause Mr G a lot of anxiety and distress. 
And he only discovered Barclays error when he was looking at the app for something else.
Ive listened to the two calls Mr G made when he alerted Barclays of the address error. Mr G 
tells the call handler how upset he was and he was shaking with what happened. He says 
his son-in-law has got his bank statements and the call handler replies theyve hardly gone 
to a stranger have they and says do you not trust a member of your family? 
The call handler says I would understand the shaking if he was not a trusted member of the 
family, Mr G says hes not, how do you know hes a trusted member of the family and the 
call handler says well he certainly is if hes your son-in-law. Mr G asks for a complaint to be 
made and the call handler says Mr G would either need to write to Barclays or ring up and 
speak to another call handler as he couldnt raise a complaint when it was about himself. 
The line was disconnected as it appears Mr G took another call and the call handler got no 
response from Mr G when he said his name.
Mr G rings Barclays back and explains what happened. But the call handler says we 
wouldnt do that without, without getting advice from yourself to do that. This bewilders Mr G 
as he explains he didnt do this and asks her to look at his previous bank statements to show 
the incorrect address. The call handler keeps saying okay frequently while Mr G is trying to 
talk. He asks to raise two complaints but the line is disconnected. 
After listening to these two calls, its clear that Mr G has been badly let down by Barclays 
staff here. The first call handler fails to see the importance of what happened, and it appears 
that he believes that just because Mr Gs son-in-law is part of his family that this isnt much 
of an issue. But the call handler could not have been aware of Mr Gs dynamic with his son-
in-law. His tone was dismissive and disinterested and made the situation far worse, as he 
insinuated Mr G shouldnt be shaken by what happened and questioned whether he trusted 
a member of his family, which audibly distressed Mr G further. The second call handler 
doesnt believe Mr G, even though it would be a simple thing to see if she had looked at the 
previous bank statements as Mr G had urged her to. It appeared she was being 
condescending in the way she was saying okay frequently, as Mr G was trying to correct 
her, and then the line was disconnected while Mr G was speaking. 
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. Barclays made an error 
and changed Mr Gs address without his authority, effectively breaching his data. And they 
provided poor customer service on the phone which audibly caused Mr G further distress. 
Barclays raised a data breach internally, provided feedback to the call handlers managers 
and offered Mr G £350 compensation. I know Mr G feels this compensation is not enough for 
what happened. But it is in line with what I would have awarded Mr G if they did not uphold 
his complaint as Barclays errors have caused Mr G considerable distress and 
inconvenience, and therefore Barclays should pay Mr G £350.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £350 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr G £350 for distress and 
inconvenience. But I wont be requiring them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman