DRN-1750861
The complaint
Mr W complains Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited didnt fully repair damage to his 
taxi.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr Ws taxi was damaged in a collision with another vehicle. So he 
claimed on his Markerstudy taxi insurance policy. The claim was accepted. Mr Ws car was 
taken to one of Markerstudys repairers.  
But Mr W wasnt happy with the work. He felt some damage, to paintwork on the front 
bumper, hadnt been repaired. In response Markerstudy said that wasnt caused by the 
collision. So it said it wouldnt repair that damage. Mr W complained but Markerstudy didnt 
change its position. 
Our investigator felt Markerstudy had dealt with Mr Ws claim reasonably. He wasnt 
persuaded the bumper paintwork damage was accident related. He didnt recommend it do 
anything differently. Mr W didnt accept that. So the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For me to say Markerstudy should repair the damage Id need to think it was most likely 
caused by the accident. But having considered everything Ive been provided with, I cant 
say thats the case.    
Markerstudys repairer didnt feel the paintwork damage was caused by the collision. After 
considering photos of the damage neither did Markerstudys own engineer. It also asked an 
independent engineer to consider the matter. He inspected the vehicle after the repairs - and 
photos of it from before. He didnt feel the damage was consistent with accident damage. His 
opinion was the paint flaked off. The pictures Ive seen support this. The engineer feels it 
was probably caused by a failure to use primer undercoat during a previous repair.
Mr W hasnt provided much to support his position that the damage was caused by the 
accident. I accept he says his own mechanic can confirm the paintwork damage wasnt there 
a week before the collision. But I need to be persuaded it was caused by the accident, not 
that it wasnt there a week prior. Whilst I accept its possible the damage did occur in the 
collision, the information Ive seen doesnt support that. So I cant say Markerstudys 
decision not to cover the damage is unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman