DRN-2106936
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels 
decision to reject a claim they made under their joint home insurance policy for storm 
damage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P made a claim under their home insurance policy to esure in January 2020. 
They heard a loud bang in the evening following storm conditions that day. They went 
outside and discovered a gable end wall to a barn had collapsed inward, causing the internal 
wall to collapse and damage to the contents of the barn.
esure sent a surveyor to inspect the damage and they said a structural engineer report 
would be necessary. On receipt of the structural engineer report, esure decided to reject the 
claim for storm damage. It said that although storm conditions existed at the time, the main 
cause of the damage was caused by gradual deterioration of the materials within the 
collapsed wall of the barn. esure settled Mr and Mrs Ps contents claim under the accidental 
damage section of their policy. It also paid £1,800 toward the costs of scaffolding as a 
goodwill gesture.
Mr and Mrs P paid for an independent structural engineer report to support their claim. But 
after reviewing the second report, esure maintained its decision. 
Mr and Mrs P asked us to look at their complaint. Our investigator considered the three 
questions we ask when considering complaints about storm damage claims. (Ive set these 
out in my findings). She thought on balance that the report provided by Mr and Mrs Ps 
engineer was less persuasive. So she didnt recommend their complaint should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. In summary they believe their claim is valid as the damage was 
caused by storm. They said theyve ensured the barn was in a good state of repair - and 
maintenance work was carried out by experienced local builders with knowledge of its 
materials. So Mr and Mrs P say theyve done all they can to avoid damage, which in this 
case was caused by a storm. 
Mr and Mrs P would like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esures policy has a very common term Ive seen in insurance policies. It excludes cover for 
loss or damage due to gradual damage over time or wear and tear. This is the general 
exclusion its relied on when deciding to decline Mr and Mrs Ps claim.
In esures reply to their complaint, it focused on the two structural engineer reports provided. 
These underpin its decision to decline Mr and Mrs Ps claim.
The first structural engineers report highlighted the following: 
In respect to the cause of the structural failure to the left gable wall, we have carried 
out some research into the use of blue lias stone, we understand that the stone 
becomes friable and delaminated after prolonged exposure to severe weather 
conditions in particular to the freeze thaw action of rain.
We understand that over the last few years construction works on the neighbouring 
property have taken place, as part of these works a substantial row of tall trees have 
been removed.
The property is located within the countryside in an exposed location, the removal of 
these trees could have contributed to the elevation being further exposed to potential 
high winds and extreme weather conditions.
It should be noted that the blue lias stone used for the rear elevation of the barn 
structure, which is located within the internal courtyard of the neighbouring property 
and partially protected from extreme weather conditions shows no signs of being 
friable or delaminated.
In addition, the structural engineer commented that large sections of the stonework and 
mortar joints crumbled on touch.
The structural engineers report provided by Mr and Mrs P concluded that based on the 
location of cracking, the damage was caused by the force exerted on the wall during the 
storm.
While both reports provide a professional opinion as to the cause of damage, esure pointed 
out that the second structural engineers report didnt mention the condition of the stonework 
which the first structural engineer described as delaminated and friable  nor did he 
comment on the impact of prolonged exposure to severe weather conditions on the material 
along with freezing and thawing action of rain.
Mr and Mrs P said they discussed the findings of the second structural engineers report with 
two engineers following esures final response to their complaint. The engineers told them 
that the delamination was only surface deep, and the structural integrity of the stone blocks 
were sound. But these additional comments werent in the second structural engineers 
report.
Mr and Mrs P say they were told verbally and by email on 29 January 2020 liability for the 
claim had been accepted - before the structural engineers visit which they werent aware of 
beforehand. esure says the structural engineer was recommended by a surveyor as liability 
couldnt be established due to the extent of the damage. Mr and Mrs P feel the claim was 
declined by esure whey it realised the likely costs of the repairs.
esures notes show that on 29 January 2020 liability has now been engaged so I dont 
doubt what Mr and Mrs P say. And so I can understand that it was a shock to be told a week 
later that their claim was to be declined. But I dont think this means esures decision was 
unreasonable  as the surveyor explained that a structural engineer report would be needed. 
The structural engineer gave his initial thoughts on 30 January 2020 that the cause of the 
damage may not be solely attributable to the storm. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P say they maintained the wall of the barn and ensured repairs 
were carried out where needed. Ive no reason to doubt this. However, I think the first 
structural engineer was clearer as to the cause of damage and the reasons why. We ask 
three questions when considering claims for storm damage. They are:Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage was said to have
happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause for the damage?
We're likely to uphold a complaint if the answer to all three questions is 'yes'. However if the 
answer to one of the questions is 'no' we're unlikely to uphold a complaint. 
While I agree that storm conditions occurred when the event happened, I think esure took a 
reasonable view that the wind speeds on that day - ranging up to 56 mph - wouldnt have 
been enough to cause a structurally sound wall to collapse. So I dont think the damage 
caused to the barn was as a result of a one off event. I think the storm highlighted an 
existing gradual deterioration in the materials causing the wall to collapse. And so storm 
conditions werent the main cause of damage.
I understand that Mr and Mrs P say the wind conditions were closer to 80 mph compared to 
the data used by esure and checked by our investigator. But we can only rely on locally 
available recordings of the wind speeds for that day.
Mr and Mrs P say that insurance is paid to cover unexpected eventualities. However, the 
cover provided by an insurer is as described in their policy wording and doesnt cover all 
unexpected eventualities. The first structural engineer reported that due to the elevated 
position and exposure to severe weather conditions over time, this seems to have had an 
impact on the deteriorating condition of the gable end wall compared to the less exposed 
rear of the barn. 
I understand Mr and Mrs P will be very disappointed. But overall I think esures decision to 
decline the claim for storm damage was reached reasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman