DRN-3973716
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Starling Bank Limited delayed processing a faster payment he says he had 
legitimately set up, and that they asked him to repeat information he had already provided 
about the payment. 
What happened
On 2 December 2022 at 09:51 Mr P sent a payment of £1,000 from his Starling account to 
another account in his own name. Starling have said this is the first time Mr P had sent a 
payment to this payee. 
When the payment had still not gone through later in the day, Mr P contacted Starling 
through their online chat at 15:45. A Starling agent joined the chat at 15:55. Mr P was 
unhappy that he had needed to wait 10 minutes. 
On the chat, Mr P asked what had happened to his £1,000 payment as it was still pending. 
The agent explained they could see it was under manual review, and they asked Mr P to 
share the reason for the payment so they could raise the matter with the relevant team to 
have the payment approved. 
Mr P did not respond to the agents query. The agent apologised for Mr Ps frustration in 
having to repeat information he said he had already given. But the agent explained they 
could not see anything Mr P would have previously submitted to make the payment.  
Mr P requested a complaint be raised. And insisted the payment be made immediately. 
The agent agreed to raise a complaint and explained they would need to know what the 
payment was for, so they could look into it. Mr P repeated he had already provided that 
information. 
Mr P then requested a managers involvement. The agent consulted with a manager and 
then assured Mr P that the manager would be asking him for the same information. 
And although Mr P did not provide any further details about the payment, the agent 
escalated the issue to the relevant team, and at 16:26 confirmed the payment had been 
settled. 
The funds therefore reached the intended account on 2 December 2022, at 16:26.
The following day Mr P sent a payment of £2,000 to the same payee without any problems. 
Starling responded to Mr Ps complaint on 16 December 2022 and did not uphold it. 
Our Investigator considered Mr Ps concerns, but did not uphold the complaint. In summary, 
they said Starling had acted fairly and reasonably in following their own fraud prevention 
processes. The Investigator explained Starlings terms and conditions set out that payment 
instructions are subject to certain execution times and may be held back to protect a 
customers funds. 
In addition the Investigator noted the Starling agent would not have been able to see details 
of Mr Ps previous information, and they had followed Starlings processes. The Investigator 
could see the payment was sent the same day, and even though Mr P had not answered the 
question about the payment, Starlings agent had escalated the issue for Mr P to have his 
payment reviewed sooner than it may have been done otherwise.  
Mr P disagreed with the Investigators findings. He said Starling had already carried out 
checks through the app, so repeating everything again was ridiculous. Mr P said he had 
needed the funds urgently to travel, and he was not required to justify how he spends his 
money so he had expected the payment to be processed immediately. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For me to uphold Mr Ps complaint I would have to find that Starling had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when handling Mr Ps payment request on 2 December 2022. Having 
reviewed the submissions and available evidence from both parties, I have decided not to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint for broadly the same reasons as those reached by our Investigator. 
It may help Mr P to know that Starling have legal and regulatory obligations to ensure they 
have suitable systems and processes in place to protect their customers funds. And 
Starlings terms and conditions set out that a payment can be held if they reasonably 
consider it necessary to do so. 
After Mr P submitted his payment request through the app, Starlings systems identified it as 
a payment to review. Financial businesses systems can identify payments for review even 
when they are genuine payments. 
I realise Mr P is particularly upset and frustrated with this matter as he strongly feels he 
should have access to his own money to do with as he pleases. But it is important that 
financial businesses have systems and processes in place to protect their customers funds. 
Starlings submissions show that, having completed their checks on 2 December 2022, when 
Mr P made a larger payment to the same payee a few days later it went through without any 
further checks. 
I can see Mr P was frustrated with Starling asking for information about the payment again 
when he contacted them online. However, while I can see how this would be frustrating, it 
does not appear that the Starling agent would have been able to see the details about the 
payment Mr P had previously given. And having seen Starlings internal guide to their staff in 
such situations, the agent was following the processes set in place. So Im unable to find that 
the agent was wrong in asking Mr P about the payment again.  
Although Mr P refused to answer the agents question, the agent still escalated the matter for 
Mr P, and the relevant team reviewed and approved the payment to go through immediately. 
So I think Starling acted fairly and reasonably in sorting the matter out for Mr P. 
I also dont think Starlings 10 minute delay in responding to Mr P via the online chat was 
unreasonable in the circumstances. Starling have explained they were busy at that time. 
They also resolved Mr Ps concerns about the payment, even though at times Mr P did not 
respond to the agent. So on balance, I think Starling acted reasonably here. 
Mr Ps submissions indicate his particular frustration with Starlings processes in this matter. 
So it may help to explain that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to decide on individual financial disputes. The Financial Ombudsman Service therefore does not fine or 
punish businesses, or ask them to review their systems or processes  these are matters for 
the regulators consideration. 
Overall, I think Starlings actions were fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman