DRN-3315313
The complaint
Mr H and Miss J complain that Liverpool Victoria Life Company Limited (LV=) unfairly 
declined a critical illness claim made under their Flexible Protection Plan. 
What happened
Mr H and Miss J applied for a Flexible Protection Plan (the policy) with LV= in 
December 2019. The policy provided life and critical illness cover, as well as personal sick 
pay and waiver of premium benefits.  
Cover didnt start until 23 March 2020. LV=s original offer of cover expired on 
12 March 2020. So, Mr H and Miss J were required to complete and sign a Declaration of 
Health (DOH) before LV= could make a new offer of cover. The DOH asked them if thered 
been any change to their health since December 2019, when their original application was 
completed. LV= say Mr H and Miss J signed and returned the DOH on 17 March 2020. 
Mr H was sadly diagnosed with multiple sclerosis (MS) in June 2020. He later contacted 
LV= to make a critical illness claim.  
LV= declined the claim because it said Mr H had failed to disclose hed been having 
investigations in to leg pain and weakness before applying for cover, and had sought 
medical advice for problems with his knee and had an x-ray between the time of completing 
his application and signing the DOH. LV= said it would have postponed offering cover until 
the outcome of the investigations were known. Once Mr H received his MS diagnosis it 
wouldnt have offered him cover. It cancelled the policy and returned the premiums paid. But 
it offered Miss J the opportunity to take out single life cover. 
Mr H complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said that whilst hed had pains in 
his knee and ankle in the year before hed taken out cover, hed seen his GP about these 
issues and been reassured there was nothing wrong. The x-ray on his knee had also been 
clear. He said he had no way of knowing he had MS before applying for cover and felt LV= 
had treated him unfairly. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She noted that Mr Hs medical 
records showed that hed experienced weakness in his right leg in the year before he applied 
for cover. She concluded that he ought reasonably to have disclosed this when applying for 
cover. She was satisfied that had Mr H done so LV= would not have offered him cover. In 
the circumstances, she was satisfied that LV= had acted fairly and reasonably by declining 
his claim and avoiding the policy. 
Mr H and Miss J disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. Mr H disagreed that 
hed suffered leg weakness that he should have disclosed as part of his application. He said 
he believed the problem he was experiencing was because of driving long distances. He 
said the problem didnt impact his day to day life and resolved on its own, so he didnt agree 
he should reasonably have disclosed this in response to LVs application question. He also 
disputed that LV= would have turned down his application had he disclosed his knee and 
ankle pain. He simulated an application online and found that he was offered cover without 
any restrictions, he considered this proved he would have been offered cover even if hed 
declared the problems with his legs.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for much the same reasons as the
investigator.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr H and Miss J. I dont underestimate the 
significance this decision will have on their life. And I dont want to add to the distress theyve 
already experienced. But for the reasons Ill explain I dont think LV= was unreasonable to 
decline the claim or avoid the policy, and so I dont think Mr H and Miss J have been treated 
unfairly.
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to
answer questions accurately and makes a qualifying misrepresentation as a result, CIDRA 
sets out the remedies available to the insurer. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the 
insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the 
consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation
Was there a misrepresentation?
Mr H and Miss J originally completed an application with their mortgage broker on 
12 December 2019. The form contained warnings about the importance of answering all 
questions truthfully and honestly. It warned:
This is the information that has been provided to us about you and upon which we have 
relied on to process your cover. This information forms the basis of a contract between the 
plan owner and LV=
If you dont provide complete, accurate and up-to-date information LV= may not be able to 
pay your claim. Your policy may be cancelled or changed to apply the correct policy terms or 
you may be asked to pay additional premiums. 
As such, Im satisfied LV= did enough to draw Mr H and Miss Js attention to the importance 
of answering all questions truthfully and accurately, and the potential consequences if they 
didnt do so. 
As part of the application Mr H was asked: 
In the last 5 years, regardless of whether youve seen a doctor, required treatment or had 
time off work, have you had: 
Joint or muscle pain, any type of arthritis, gout or anything else affecting your bones, joints, 
muscles or limbs? 
Numbness, pins and needles, muscle weakness, fainting, migraine, tremor or difficulty with coordination?
Mr H answered no to these questions. LV= considers Mr Hs answers were incorrect as his 
medical records show that hed experienced limb weakness since June 2019.
Theres no evidence that Mr H sought any medical treatment in June 2019, but his earlier 
symptoms were noted by a number of medical professionals in relation to his eventual 
diagnosis of MS. LV=s questions specifically refer to symptoms regardless of whether 
youve seen a doctor, required treatment or had time off work. So, Ive had to consider 
whether I think Mr H should reasonably have disclosed his symptoms when he applied for 
cover. 
I should start by saying, theres no suggestion that Mr H was aware he had MS before he 
applied for cover. Its clear he only received his diagnosis in June 2020 following a rapid 
deterioration in his symptoms after cover started. I also appreciate that at the point a 
diagnosis was made, earlier symptoms which may have seemed inconsequential at the time, 
may have taken on greater significance and relevance. With this in mind, I am not judging 
Mr H on his knowledge as it was in June 2020, but as it was when he was having his 
symptoms in June 2019 and whether he would reasonably have thought he was suffering 
from numbnessmuscle weakness or difficulty with coordination. 
A letter from Mr Hs consultant neurologist, who Ill refer to as Dr V, dated 15 July 2020 
noted Symptom onset was in June 19 characterised by exertional weakness of the right leg 
with a foot drop causing frequent tripping but Mr [H] was still able to run, it lasted several 
weeks with an incomplete recovery. There are further references to a year history of right 
foot drop within his medical records from 2020 that would appear to relate to the same time.  
While Mr H has told us that his symptoms in June 2019 related to an ankle ache, caused by 
excessive driving, his medical records suggest it was more serious than that. Although Mr H 
was able to continue running, I think it would have been significant to him that his leg/ foot 
weakness had caused him to frequently trip and lasted several weeks without a full recovery. 
I accept Mr H most likely didnt realise this was a symptom of anything more sinister at the 
time. But I think he ought reasonably to have recognised that hed experienced numbness 
muscle weakness or difficulty with coordination in the months before he completed his 
application and he should therefore have disclosed it. 
As the policy didnt start straight after the application was completed, Mr H and Miss J 
completed a DOH on 17 March 2020. This provided them with a further opportunity to 
correct any of their earlier answers, they were also asked the following additional questions:
Since 12th day of December have you: []
3. consulted your usual medical practitioner or any other medical practitioner, counsellor or 
therapist? []
5. any expectation of seeking medical advice in the near future?
LV= has been unable to provide a copy of the DOH Mr H completed, although it can 
evidence that it was received. It says Mr H didnt make any further disclosures within his 
DOH. Without a copy of the DOH Mr H completed, I cant know for certain how he answered 
the questions above. But given LV= made no changes to the cover it was prepared to offer 
and as Mr H appears to accept that he didnt tell LV= about his consultations with his GP or 
the x-ray he underwent, I think its most likely he answered the questions above no. So 
again, I must decide if I think he ought to have answered these questions differently.  LV= said Mr H failed to disclose that hed seen his GP on 5 February 2020 for knee 
weakness and underwent an x-ray on 6 February 2020. The GP report confirms that the 
appointment on 5 February 2020 was the first consultation Mr H had for the symptoms that 
led to his eventual diagnosis with MS. A letter from his consultant neurologist, dated 
22 July 2020, also confirmed In February 20, he experienced a disabling spinal cord 
relapse characterised by progressive left leg weakness, bilateral lower leg spasms and 
worsening balance resulting in x2 falls down the stairs. The radiographer report completed 
after Mr Hs x-ray on 6 February 2020, also noted his clinical history as knee disorder, PMH 
knee sepsis, Heavy knee unable to move, Reduced ROM.  
It's clear from this that Mr H had consulted his usual medical practitioner since 
12 December 2019. Given that the appointment took place just over 6 weeks before he 
completed the DOH, I think Mr H ought reasonably to have disclosed this in response to the 
clear question asked. While I appreciate that hes said he didnt feel he needed to disclose 
this because the x-rays came back normal, the questions didnt suggest he should discount 
anything that he considered to be resolved or no longer of concern. Ultimately it was for LV= 
to decide whether his medical history was relevant to the risk it was willing to accept and it 
had simply asked if hed consulted a medical professional, which he had.  
Its also significant that Mr H had a second GP consultation on 18 March 2020, the day after 
he signed the DOH. The GP notes record he has some aches and pains and rt ankle pain. 
As part of this consultation Mr H was referred for another x-ray. Given the nature of this 
consultation it seems most likely that Mr H was aware when he signed the DOH on 
17 March 2020 that he would be seeking medical advice in the near future, and so again 
he should have disclosed this in response to the clear questions asked. 
Given the clear questions LV= asked, both in December 2019 and in March 2020, I think it 
reasonably concluded that Mr H had misrepresented his health when he applied for cover. 
Mr Hs symptoms were recent enough and significant enough for him to be able to easily 
recall them in response to LV=s clear questions. As such, I can only conclude Mr H didnt 
take reasonable care when answering the questions.
Was the misrepresentation qualifying and if so what would LV= have done differently?
LV= has provided us with its underwriting guidance and commentary which demonstrates 
that had Mr H disclosed hed suffered from weakness in his limbs, it would have wanted to 
know the cause of the weakness before it offered cover. The investigations into Mr Hs limb 
weakness ultimately resulted in his MS diagnosis. Once this was confirmed LV= would not 
have offered Mr H any cover. As such, it cancelled the policy from the start and returned the 
premiums Mr H and Miss J paid towards cover.
Based on the evidence presented, Im satisfied that Mr Hs misrepresentation was 
qualifying, as it had an impact on the cover LV= was prepared to offer. 
CIDRA sets outs the remedies an insurer can take when a qualifying misrepresentation has 
occurred. And the remedy depends on how the misrepresentation is classified - either 
deliberate or reckless or careless. Both classifications however allow an insurer to avoid 
the policy if, had the correct information been disclosed in the application, cover wouldnt 
have been offered. The difference between the classifications though is that premiums 
should be refunded for careless misrepresentation, whereas they can be retained by the 
insurer if classified as deliberate or reckless. Given LV= has refunded the premiums, Im 
satisfied theyve provided Mr H and Miss J the most favourable remedy under CIDRA. I think 
this is fair. I appreciate Mr H and Miss J believe they would have been eligible for cover even if Mr H 
had disclosed his earlier symptoms. I can see theyve run through an online application 
through LV=s website that they believe shows cover would have been offered. Ive given 
careful consideration to this evidence, but I dont think its as persuasive as LV=s 
underwriting guidance and commentary. 
Notably, I can see in the simulated application, Mr H has categorised his symptoms as 
simply knee and ankle pain. As Ive explored above, I dont think that is a full or accurate 
description of the symptoms Mr H experienced before cover. And LV= has been able to 
persuasively demonstrate that had it known about Mr Hs leg weakness it would have 
wanted to know the cause of that symptom and ultimately would not have offered cover. 
Overall, while I can understand Mr H and Miss Js disappointment that theyve been unable 
to claim under the policy, Im satisfied LV= has acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances by avoiding the policy and declining the claim. I think it was also reasonable 
that LV= offered Miss J the option to take out cover on a single life basis if shed wanted to 
con. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman