DRN-4367455
The complaint
B, a limited company, is unhappy Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (Bank of Ireland) closed its
account.
The complainant here is B. However, I may also refer to Mr W throughout my decision as he
is the beneficial owner of B and has been driving this complaint.
I should make it clear that I have only looked at the closure of Bs account in this decision.
What happened
The facts of this case are known to both parties so I will summarise below.
Bank of Ireland wrote to B on 7 August 2020 explaining that following a review, its account
would be closed with immediate effect. It didnt give B a reason for the closure.
Mr W has said the immediate closure caused issues for B in that its regular rental payments
received into the account couldnt be paid in and it had to rush to find alternative
arrangements. Mr W has said it was difficult to find a new account in the UK for B, although
this was eventually done. But in the meantime, it couldnt pay in the bankers draft that Bank
of Ireland sent when it closed its account.
Mr W submitted a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) and as a result received some
internal communications from Bank of Ireland which suggested the account had been closed
because hed provided ID documents which had been certified by a non-practicing solicitor.
Mr W is unhappy as Bank of Ireland didnt specify the documents needed to be certified by a
practicing solicitor nor had it given him the opportunity to clarify or correct this before closing
Bs account. Hes also pointed to legislation which he says confirms that the definition of a
solicitor includes a solicitor that doesnt hold a practicing certificate.
Unhappy with Bank of Irelands actions, Mr W referred Bs complaint to this service. Our
investigator didnt uphold Bs complaint. He explained that Bank of Ireland had acted within 
the terms and conditions when closing the account and it didnt have to provide its reasons
for doing so to B.
B remained unhappy. Mr W pointed out that Bank of Ireland has confirmed to him that the
only reason it closed Bs account was because of the issue with the document certification.
He pointed out that a person can be a solicitor and not hold a practicing certificate because
when qualified, all solicitors are entered onto the roll of solicitors, where they remain unless
they are removed.
Mr W also pointed out that there is no justification for not giving B notice of the closure. He
pointed to communication hed received in the DSAR between his branch in Dublin and Bank
of Ireland UK, saying it had given no reason to reach a conclusion of fraud or criminal activity
that would warrant a closure without notice. He explained that he and B still have many
accounts with Bank of Ireland, ROI.
Because B disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I issued my provisional findings on the complaint on 4 September 2023. This is what I said:
Bank of Ireland has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when
providing account services to its customers. These obligations are ongoing so dont just
apply at account opening stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review
accounts and the activity taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the
accounts being closed. If Bank of Ireland didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
Mr W obtained various bits of information off the back of a DSAR he submitted to Bank of
Ireland, and this has caused him concern about the reasons for the account closure. Ive
been able to review the unredacted copies of these emails and I do share his concerns
around Bank of Irelands actions when it comes to the certification of the ID documents Mr W
provided. It is within Bank of Irelands prerogative to have documents certified by a practicing
solicitor, but I havent seen anything to suggest Bank of Ireland specified this requirement to
Mr W at any point. And having reviewed Bank of Irelands policy around document
certification, it does say that if the document doesnt meet the required standards, it should
be returned to the customer and re-certification requested to the appropriate standards.
Bank of Ireland didnt do this and so I can understand Mr Ws frustration. I have no reason to
doubt that had this happened, Mr W would have either provided the original document or
had it re-certified by a practicing solicitor.
I understand why Mr W believes the reason for the closure rests solely on the ID certification
and Im in agreement that this appears to be the main factor. But Bank of Ireland has also
shared with this service in confidence additional rationale behind the closure. And having
reviewed its reasons, whilst Im satisfied Bank of Ireland was able to close Bs account under
the terms and conditions, Im not satisfied it acted correctly in closing Bs account with
immediate effect. As already mentioned, it didnt follow its process in terms of the document
certification, and it failed to ask any follow up questions when the ID documents were
submitted to alleviate any concerns it may have had. Taking this into account, I have seen
nothing that convinces me an immediate closure was warranted or permitted under the
terms and conditions.
Bank of Ireland sent B a bankers draft for the remaining funds in its account at the time of
closure. However, B didnt have another account at the time and so couldnt cash this or
utilise the money. Whilst I cant hold Bank of Ireland responsible for the length of time it took 
B to find another account, I do agree that for the notice period B should have been able to
utilise the balance of the account. It was deprived of doing so because of Bank of Irelands
error in closing the account immediately, so I think it should pay 8% on the account balance
between 7 August and 7 October 2020  this being what should have been the two months
notice period under the terms and conditions.
Looking at the impact the immediate closure had on B, I think Bank of Ireland should pay it
£250 compensation. Its clear that having no notice of the closure caused B inconvenience. It
had to rush to find alternative banking arrangements, so the regular rental income received
into the account could continue to be paid somewhere. When reaching this award, Ive taken
into account that B would always have had to find another account elsewhere and had the
issue of it being difficult to find an account  and this isnt something I can hold Bank of
Ireland liable for as it was ultimately entitled to close the account.
Bank of Ireland didnt respond to the provisional decision. 
Mr W responded on behalf of B. He raised three points which I have summarised below:He did not feel Id given adequate attention to the complainant as a consumer. He 
gave the example of Bank of Irelands complaint procedure and the fact it didnt 
identify the points I have since identified and issued a standard form rejection letter to 
the complaint. 
Any additional rationale that Bank of Ireland had for the account closure should have 
been shared with him. 
He does not feel the £250 is adequate for the amount of time and effort that went into 
the complaint. 
Mr W has also provided a psychiatrists report to show the impact the matter has had on him 
personally. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Bank of Ireland didnt respond to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from 
my findings that it was incorrect to close Bs account immediately and should have provided 
notice. 
Mr W on behalf of B, has raised several points which I will now address. 
I appreciate Mr W feels Bank of Irelands complaint procedure didnt identify the issues I 
have with the closure of Bs account. I agree with him on this point and that is why I have 
upheld the complaint. Its clear Bank of Ireland felt it had a basis for closing Bs account 
immediately but as Ive explained, I dont agree. However, were not the regulator of financial 
businesses (that is the Financial Conduct Authority). We dont police their internal 
processes. So, whilst I have upheld the complaint and awarded compensation for the impact 
this failing had on B, I cant enforce a punishment for the outcome its complaint team 
reached.  
Mr W has said that Bank of Irelands full rationale for closing his account should be shared 
with him. I should start by saying that a financial institution doesnt have to share its reasons 
for closing an account  just like a customer doesnt have to share their reason if they 
choose to close their account. And as long as this service can be satisfied the reasons for 
closing an account were legitimate, fair and free from discrimination, then it is a decision the 
financial business is entitled to make. 
As mentioned in my provisional decision, the additional reasons for the closure have been 
shared with our service in confidence and in the circumstances, Im in agreement these 
reasons should be kept confidential. I therefore wont be sharing this with Mr W or B. Our 
rules allow me to do this, and these can be found in Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Handbook. The relevant rule being DISP 3.5.2. which says:
The Ombudsman may:
(2) where he considers it necessary or appropriate, accept information in confidence, so that 
only an edited version or (where this is not practicable) a summary or description is 
disclosed to the other party;I appreciate Mr Ws concern around wanting to test Bank of Irelands rationale behind its 
decision to close his account. He has a level of distrust towards them due to whats 
happened and various media articles. He feels it has made false and misleading 
representations in other matters and so its representation in his complaint should not be 
accepted as true and accurate. 
Whilst I acknowledge Mr Ws concerns, Bank of Ireland has responded to all our requests to 
evidence its rationale behind its decision to close Bs account and provided evidence when 
available  as we would expect it to do. And importantly, Ive not seen anything to suggest 
what Bank of Ireland has given to me is false or misleading. 
Finally, Mr W believes B should receive more than £250 compensation. However, I havent 
seen anything that makes me believe a higher award is warranted in the circumstances for 
the reasons given in my provisional decision. Mr W has pointed to the impact the closure 
had on him and whilst Im very sorry to hear this, as the complainant in this case is B, Im 
unable to consider the impact to him personally when deciding on a fair and reasonable 
award. 
In conclusion, whilst I take on board Mr Ws comments, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. My final decision therefore remains that I uphold the complaint and 
direct Bank of Ireland to settle the complaint as detailed below.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right I direct Bank of Ireland to do the following:
Pay 8% simple interest on the balance of the account at the time of closing between
7 August and 7 October 2020. If Bank of Ireland considers that its required by HM
Revenue & Customs to deduct tax from that interest, it should tell B how much its
taken off. It should also give B a tax deduction certificate if it asks for one, so it can
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay £250 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Bs complaint against Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman