DRN-3986446
The complaint
Mr T complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank did not action his 
application by the deadline which resulted in the interest rate increasing.
What happened
Mr T applied for a loan of £20,000 with Tesco. He says he sent them the relevant 
documentation via next day delivery, prior to the application expiration date. He said as 
Tesco did not process this in time, then the interest rate increased from 2.8% to 6.7%, which 
he says this resulted in the total interest repayable increasing by £2,043.60. Mr T made a 
complaint to Tesco.
Tesco partially upheld Mr Ts complaint. They said on 30 May 2022, they received his signed 
credit agreement and this was returned along with a certified copy of his energy bill, 
however, they couldnt accept the credit agreement as he returned page four, but the rest of 
the pages were Mr Ts copy, which he had to keep, so they sent out a new credit agreement. 
They said that also confirmed in the agreement, a utility bill (amongst other things) must be 
either an original, sent through the post, or a Portable Document Format (PDF) internet print 
off. They said Mr T contacted them on 1 and 6 June, however, they state their website 
confirms that it may take between 5-10 days to check everything. Tesco said that the 
documents were reviewed on 9 June and they sent him a text to contact him when they sent 
the credit agreement in the post. They said they explained to Mr T in a call on 15 June, that if 
he was struggling to get a List B document, they could accept his mortgage statement.
Tesco said they received his credit agreement and utility bill which was certified. They said 
that when Mr T called them on 21 June, they should have confirmed they wouldnt be able to 
accept this since it was certified. They said as his application was reviewed on 25 June, the 
application had expired as it was only valid for 30 days from when he initially applied, and 
the notes state since it was a certified copy of the water bill it needed to be the original or 
PDF. They said on 27 June, they reprocessed the application which required another credit 
search to be carried out, but the interest had increased to 6.7% and they had said they could 
use the documentation provided as he mentioned it was a PDF version that had been 
certified. Tesco said that as the certified copy said that it was a true copy of the original, this 
would have invalidated the PDF version. Tesco said due to the incorrect information they 
would remove the second credit search and they offered him £100 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience and £5 for postage costs, but Mr T found this offer insulting and rejected 
this. Mr T brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator said he felt the compensation that was offered was fair. He said Tesco 
didnt accept the first application because the correct loan pages werent returned to them. 
He said Tescos systems proved they sent him a text at 14:30pm. He said Tescos website 
shows that It may take between 510 days for us to check everything is ok. As we try to do 
this as quickly as possible, we do not send an acknowledgment email or letter, but will inform 
you as soon as a decision has been made. And he said they acted within these timescales 
on each occasion. Mr T asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr T that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their loan processing procedures including what timeframe it takes them to act upon 
information sent to them. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who have the power to instruct Tesco to make changes to their policies and 
procedures, if necessary. 
Tesco have provided us with the documents that Mr T originally sent to them. Whereas the 
instruction was for him to please return all 4 pages to Tesco Bank in a red banner at the 
top of these four pages, it appears that Tesco only received pages three and four of this. In 
addition, Mr T had sent them four pages of his credit agreement which had in upper case at 
the top of each page keep for your records. So Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for 
Tesco to send Mr T another copy of the credit agreement for him to keep and to ask him to 
send in the four pages which they originally asked for again. Unfortunately, this would take 
time to send this and to receive this, and this would impact the 30 day period in which the 
loan was valid for. 
But Mr T also sent in his energy bill. This was certified, but the certification said I have seen 
the original document and the copy provides a true likeness. So Tesco would be under the 
impression here that this wasnt the original and this was a copy. As their identification 
requirements state for this type of document, they required Original Documents or PDF 
Internet Download Copies, then there was no instruction for this to be certified, unlike the 
section above, which stated Certified Copies Only. So although this genuinely wasnt a 
copy of an original document, Tesco werent to know this at the time, when the certifier said 
he saw the original and the copy provided a true likeness. So I dont find it unreasonable that 
they didnt accept this document originally. 
Tesco did send Mr T a text on 9 June asking for him to call them. I know that Mr T disputes 
receiving a text from them, but Im satisfied that they have provided evidence this was sent. 
Ultimately though Im not persuaded Mr T receiving the text would have made any difference 
here. I say this as he would still need to wait for the new credit agreement to be sent to him, 
so nothing could realistically be done before he received this, which he says he received this 
on 13 June. So it would have been possible for him to send these documents to Tesco even 
earlier than when he did send them on 17 June. While I appreciate he wanted to go over and 
above the requirements by having the documents certified, this meant that this caused an 
unnecessary delay as they did not have to be certified. Im satisfied that this was clear from 
the identification list that this identification didnt need to be certified.
Ive also listened to a call recording that Mr T had with Tesco on 15 June 2022. On this call, 
he talks about his mortgage statement to be sent to them as identification and mentions his 
solicitor and he asks how should they endorse it? and the call handler says if its the 
original one, they dont need to certify it or anything, that would only be if it was like your, a 
copy of your drivers licence, so if its the original, you know, mortgage statement, showing 
that this is your new account, this is the name and the address, then thats enough for us to 
accept. Mr T responds okay, okay, thank you so much, I really appreciate it. So Im 
satisfied that Mr T was told here that the documentation did not need to be certified and as 
such, he would have been able to send this back on the same day and if it was sent in the 
same manner that it was on 17 June, then there might have been enough time for this to be 
processed by the deadline. 
Tesco received the documentation back on 20 June. They state on their website that Well ask you to send us the extra information we need, and it may take between 5 to 10 days for 
us to check everything is ok. Unfortunately, the application expired before they reviewed the 
information on 25 June  within five days of receiving it, which was within their published 
timeframes on their website. So I cant say Tesco made any errors here.
The credit agreement sent to Mr T clearly confirmed the loan offer was accepted in principle, 
so the loan was never guaranteed at this stage and it confirmed the offer was only valid for 
30 days. Unfortunately, as the application expired, Tesco were required to carry out a further 
credit check and assessment of the application (after agreement from Mr T) and this resulted 
in the interest increasing.
Tesco did say that they wouldnt have been able to accept his utility bill as this was also 
certified as a copy. I understand that after this, a new credit agreement was sent out and Mr 
T reluctantly agreed to a higher interest rate as the previous interest rate wasnt available to 
him anymore. Although Mr T has noted that this application went through without him 
needing to provide any further identification, this is because he confirmed to Tesco on the 
phone on 27 June that it was an PDF internet copy. So this is why they accepted his 
identification after he explained this to them. And this is why he didnt need to send this 
again with his new credit agreement. Although they have since noted this information was 
incorrect as the certification said "we hereby certify that this is a true copy of the original" 
would invalidate the PDF.
So Ive considered the compensation that Tesco have offered Mr T. They have admitted that 
they told him wrong information as alluded to in the previous paragraph. They also have said 
they should've checked over the utility bill when he rang on 21 June and explained to him 
that since it was certified, they wouldnt have been able to accept this. But Ive also 
considered that Mr T would have told the call handler this was actually a PDF copy and they 
may have accepted this like they did when he informed them of this on 27 June. They had 
conducted another hard credit search on the new application. Im pleased to see they agreed 
to remove the second hard search as although they were required to do this, it would be 
proportionate on this occasion for this to be removed. 
Ive considered that Mr T feels the £100 compensation for the incorrect information and the 
£5 towards postage costs is insulting. But compensation is a discretionary remedy that we 
sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted wrongfully and therefore caused 
distress and inconvenience to their customer over and above that which naturally flows from 
the event. When we recommend compensation, it is often modest and within our established 
guidelines. Here, Im satisfied that the total of £105 compensation is in line with our 
guidelines and is fair for the incorrect information they gave him. So it follows Tesco should 
pay Mr T what they offered him, but I dont require them to do anything further. 
My final decision
Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank has already made an offer to pay Mr T 
£105 (£100 for distress and inconvenience and £5 towards postage costs) to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank should pay £105 
(£100 for distress and inconvenience and £5 towards postage costs) to Mr T. But I dont 
require them to do anything else. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman