DRN-1928192
The complaint
Mr F has complained that TFS Loans Limited trading as TFS Loans acted irresponsibly 
when it provided a loan to him. 
What happened
Mr F was given a loan by TFS in May 2015 for £5,000. One of Mr Fs relatives was accepted 
as guarantor for the loan. The loan was due to be repaid in 72 monthly instalments of around 
£185. The total amount due be repaid over the six-year loan term, including interest, was just 
over £13,376. I understand the loan account has been closed.
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint. She didnt think TFS should have 
provided Mr F with the loan and she asked TFS to put things right. 
TFS didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, and so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a final decision about the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans on our 
website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. And Ive 
considered this approach when deciding Mr Fs complaint.
TFS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr F irresponsibly. 
I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F was 
in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did TFS make a fair lending decision?
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr F in some other way?
TFS was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment (and a similar assessment 
on the guarantor). This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr F. In other words, 
it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it 
had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr F. The existence of a guarantee and 
the potential for TFS to pursue the guarantor instead of Mr F for the loan payments doesnt 
alter, lessen, or dilute this obligation. 
TFS had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F would be 
able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that TFS had to do, but it 
could take into account a number of different things such as the loan amount, the length of 
the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial circumstances. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time?
TFS says it asked Mr F for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
some credit checks. TFS says it thinks the loan was affordable for Mr F, based on the 
information he provided to them at the time and what it found in its checks. 
But requesting information from a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have 
carried out a borrower focussed assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a 
loan. This was an expensive loan, repayable over a long period and the rules and guidance 
suggest that the risk of any credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit - relative to the customers financial situation.
TFS was aware from what it found in its credit checks that Mr F had previously defaulted on 
a number of credit commitments. The lender might have been prepared to accept this credit 
risk because one of Mr Fs relatives was guaranteeing the loan, and as such was equally 
liable. This might have given TFS more confidence that the loan repayments would be 
made. But I dont think that the existence of the guarantor, on its own, meant that Mr F 
himself would be able to sustainably make the repayments - given the amount being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the extended length of the loan term.
TFS could also see from its own credit report that Mr F had regularly been borrowing from 
pay-day lenders in the year prior to applying for his loan. He told TFS that he was partly 
using the loan to refinance existing debt  including debt to other short-term lenders. Taking 
things in the round, I think TFS ought reasonably have realised that this was a consumer 
who might be having difficulties getting out from under his financial problems. And he was 
going to have to maintain his loan repayments every month for six years. I think in the 
circumstances, TFS ought reasonably to have realised that in order for its affordability checks to be fair, reasonable and proportionate, they needed to be more detailed and 
contain a greater degree of independent verification.
The rules and regulations say that where a lender takes income or expenditure into account, 
it is not generally sufficient for it to rely solely on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer. I appreciate that TFS had carried out credit checks and it thinks it should fairly rely 
on the information that Mr F had provided. But given what the lender knew about this 
consumers financial circumstances, I think TFS ought reasonably have sought a more 
detailed understanding of Mr Fs financial position in order to properly assess whether hed 
be able to sustainably make the loan payments over the extended loan term. So as well as 
asking Mr F about the details of his income and expenditure, I think TFS should have verified 
at least some of the information he provided  for example by asking to see his bank 
statements. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think the checks TFS did before agreeing to lend to 
Mr F were fair, reasonable or proportionate.  
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Mr F has provided us with copies of his bank statements so I can determine what better 
checks might have shown TFS at that time. And I have considered this information in light of 
what Ive set out above. 
The information I have seen suggests that Mr F might have been borrowing from other short-
term lenders around the time he applied for the TFS loan, in addition to the debt that he 
intended to refinance through his TFS loan. Of course, different checks might show different 
things. But I think if TFS had carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks, I think 
its likely it would have discovered the full extent of his financial commitments, including his 
car finance loan which TFS says did not appear in its credit checks. 
TFS says it thinks the loan was affordable for Mr F, based on its analysis of his income and 
expenditure. But as Ive already explained, TFS was required to establish whether Mr F 
could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Taking everything into account, I think TFS ought reasonably have realised that Mr F was 
most likely over committed financially; that there were indications he was having difficulty 
managing his finances and would most likely need to borrow elsewhere to repay his loan 
from TFS. I think the lender ought reasonably have realised that it was unlikely that Mr F 
would have been able to sustainably repay his loan over the six-year loan term. So it should 
reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to him.
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr F in some other way?
Ive not seen anything that leads me to conclude TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr F in some other way. But I dont think TFS should have provided the loan to him. So I am 
upholding Mr Fs complaint about the loan.Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr F to repay the principal amount he has borrowed, as he 
has had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that 
shouldnt have been provided to him.  So I think Mr F has lost out and TFS should put things 
right for him.
TFS should:
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset, and treat 
any repayments made by Mr F as though they had been repayments of the principal 
on that loan. 
b) If this results in Mr F having made overpayments then TFS should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
c) If an outstanding balance remains then TFS should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr F, bearing in mind the need to treat him positively and 
sympathetically in these discussions.
d) Remove any adverse information recorded about the loan from Mr Fs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give Mr 
F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
Having considered all the evidence provided to me and reflecting on what is most likely to 
have happened in the circumstances, I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct TFS Loans 
Limited trading as TFS Loans to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman