DRN-3632091
The complaint
A company, which I will refer to as O, complains about the decision of The National Farmers' 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to decline its business interruption insurance claim, 
made following the COVID-19 pandemic.
Mr D, who is a director of O, brings the complaint on Os behalf.
What happened
O operates an accommodation business and held a commercial insurance policy 
underwritten by The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU). The 
policy provided cover for a number of areas of risk, including business interruption. 
After Os business was interrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic, and related 
government-imposed restrictions, Mr D contacted NFU to claim for Os losses. Mr D had 
several conversations and email exchanges. But, ultimately, was told that Os claim was not 
covered by the policy. 
NFU said that the most relevant clause was an endorsement contained in the policy 
schedule which provided cover for: 
loss of INCOME arising from an incident in the immediate vicinity or within a one 
mile radius of the PREMISES where access is hindered or prevented by the action of 
any civil or statutory authority or by order of the government or any public authority 
for more than 24 consecutive hours.
However, NFU said that the pandemic was a widespread, non-localised outbreak of a 
disease, rather than an incident in the vicinity of Os premises. 
Mr D was unhappy with this and brought Os complaint to the Ombudsman Service. Our 
Investigator thought NFU had applied the terms of the policy appropriately to the 
circumstances though. She referred to two court judgments in The Financial Conduct 
Authority v Arch and Others [2020] EWHC 2448 (Comm) (the FCA test case), and Corbin & 
King Limited v AXA Insurance UK Plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) (Corbin & King). And 
explained that the courts had found that an incident was a localised event and so would not 
include the geographically broad circumstances of a pandemic. 
Mr D remained unsatisfied and Os complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on O, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
I understand that O closed its business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of its business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy O took out.
Whilst I have considered the whole policy, the focus of this complaint  and so my decision  
is on the endorsement in the schedule as set out above. 
Like the Investigator, I think the FCA test case is relevant to Os claim, as clauses which 
required an incident to trigger cover were considered by the High Court and this part of the 
judgment was not appealed to the Supreme Court.
The High Court said, at paragraph 404 of its judgment:
it is a misuse of language both generally and on the correct construction of the 
NDDA clause to describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident 
occurring within a one mile radius of the insured premises. It may amount to a 
state of affairs but it is, as Mr Gaisman QC put it, too geographically dispersed, 
variegated, prolonged and non-specific to amount to an incident... in any event, it is a 
misnomer to describe the presence of someone in the radius with the disease as an 
incident for the purposes of the clause.
Whilst the court came to this conclusion when considering the particular policy wordings 
involved in the FCA test case, I consider that the finding made would apply to Os policy 
also.
I have considered whether this position would be amended by the courts position in 
Corbin & King but I dont believe it would be. Thats because the judge in this case said at 
paragraph 516 of her judgment:
The word Incident also is capable of lending a very distinct colour to a wording  as 
the telling argument recorded at [398] of the Divisional Court's judgment makes clear. 
Its significance is underpinned by the Divisional Court's conclusion at [404] that In 
our judgment, the FCAs entire case on the NDDA founders on the requirement for 
an incident.
I see no reason to depart from the findings of the courts. And Im not persuaded that there 
was an incident which prevented O access to its premises. Therefore, I think NFU has acted 
fairly and reasonably in finding that this clause doesnt cover Os claim.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means NFU should have met Os claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for Mr D, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt 
offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
I also note that Mr D has expressed dissatisfaction over the handling of the claim. However, 
whilst I note he may have preferred to receive phone calls, NFU and its agents did respond 
to him via email which I do not consider inappropriate. I also have not seen anything that 
persuades me NFU providing misleading information during the claims process. Whilst Mr D 
may have believed Os claim was going to be met, I do not think this was due to NFU or its 
agents providing him with incorrect information. But even NFU was not as clear as it might have been, I am also conscious that this would 
not mean Os claim ought to be met  which is something the policy terms themselves would 
determine. Additionally, the complainant in this case, O, is a legal entity in its own right  so 
could not suffer distress at receiving incorrect information. And Mr D has not indicated that O 
suffered in any other way as a result of his belief the claim would be met. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman