DRN-3316807
The complaint
Miss P complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc has acted unfairly when handling an account 
she had with it for a hire purchase agreement after she experienced financially difficulties.
What happened
In June 2016 Miss P entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with Secure Trust 
Bank Plc. Under the agreement Miss P was to pay 59 monthly payments of £263.50 and 
then one monthly payment of £273.50.
Unfortunately, in 2018 Miss Ps circumstances changed due to health problems and she fell 
into arrears under the agreement. She explained her circumstances and that her income 
would be reduced to Secure Trust. It asked her to complete an income and expenditure 
form. Secure Trust says that Miss P said that her partner was prepared to make token 
payments to her to help support her making payments under the agreement. It also says that 
as her partner contributed to the household bills their joint income was also considered when 
setting an appropriate payment plan for Miss P. It was agreed Miss P would pay the monthly 
payments via direct debits and her partner would make an additional payment of £25 per 
week via bank transfer.
Following this arrangement, payments were made as agreed until December 2018 when 
Miss P missed the contractual monthly payment. Secure Trust says Miss P didnt make 
contact with it. In January 2019 Secure Trust referred Miss Ps account to the Credit 
Management Department for collections activity to resume. Secure Trust says this referral 
was made due to Miss Ps personal circumstances.
Miss P made contact with Secure Trust is February 2019 and explained she was returning to 
work but was unsure what her income would be. She said she was concerned about 
covering her priority bills. Secure Trust requested for Miss P to contact it at the end of the 
month when her financial circumstances would be clearer.
In March 2019 Miss P confirmed to Secure Trust that she was happy to make the monthly 
payments and that her partner would continue with the £25pw payment via bank transfer. It 
was agreed this payment plan would be put into operation for seven weeks and then it would 
be reviewed.
Unfortunately, the March contractual monthly payment wasnt made by Miss P and Secure 
Trust issued a default notice for the account in April 2019. The default notice set out that the 
arrears of £1,294.50 had to be cleared by a set date to prevent a default being recorded. 
Miss P was also warned that if the arrears werent cleared then Secure Trust could require 
the full outstanding balance to be paid, terminate the agreement and pass the account to 
debt collectors.
The arrears werent cleared and in May 2019 Secure Trust terminated the agreement. Miss 
P contacted Secure Trust and was informed that her account had defaulted and had been 
terminated. Secure Trust also said that Miss P now owed the full balance outstanding under 
the account which amounted to £8,924. Miss P explained her circumstances and a new 
income and expenditure form was completed. Her partner was also present during this call. 
Secure Trusts says that details were taken of both Miss Ps and her partners income as they 
were both contributing to the household bills.  Miss P said her partner was content to 
continue to pay £25pw towards the account via a standing order. She offered to pay £300 for 
May. 
A new payment arrangement was agreed with the £25pw being paid by Miss Ps partner, 
one monthly payment of £263.50 followed by two monthly payments of £641. However, 
before the first monthly payment was taken Miss P contacted Secure Trust to explain she 
was now in receipt of statutory sick pay and so her oncome had reduced. The agent 
informed Miss P that due to the number of broken arrangements that supporting 
documentation was required to see if further assistance could be offered.
Miss P provided her medical information. Secure Trust says this was reviewed and it was 
decided that copies of Miss Ps bank statements were required. Miss P says this request 
was never made to her and she heard nothing about the documentation shed supplied.
Secure Trust attempted to make contact with Miss P in July 2019 but at that time she was 
unwell in hospital. A hold was placed on the account.
At the end of July 2019 Miss P contacted Secure Trust and explained she was hoping to 
return to work in or around August. Miss P was told that no further holds could be put on the 
account as there was no guarantee about her situation. A new income and expenditure form 
was completed with Miss Ps partner being present. A new temporary payment plan was 
agreed.
In August 2019 Miss P contacted Secure Trust and said she would be returning to work from 
September. A new income and expenditure form was completed, but as there were arrears 
on utility bills it was agreed that Miss P would arrange payment plans for those before a new 
payment plan could be agreed for this account. Once this had been done, a new payment 
plan was made for payments to be made up to November 2019.
However, the following day Miss P contacted Secure Trust and said she was unhappy that 
her partners income was being included and that she wasnt being given more time to clear 
the arrears. An income and expenditure form was completed based on Miss Ps sole 
income. It was then agreed to give Miss P a longer period in which to clear the arrears and 
at a lower monthly payment. Unfortunately, there were some issues with Miss Ps bank card 
and this payment arrangement broke down.
In October 2019 a new arrangement over seven months was made to clear the arrears but 
this broke down in December 2019. Secure Trust says it tried multiple times to contact Miss 
P but as it was unable to do so the decision was made in January 2020 to pass the account 
to a third-party collections company.
Miss P contacted Secure Trust and again Miss Ps income was assessed, Miss P made an 
offer which was lower than the suggested payment rate of the agent. Secure Trust says that 
due to the length of time the account had been in arrears the reduced payment rate would 
take too long to clear them. A new payment rate for the next nine months was then agreed.
Miss P complained to Secure Trust that it had included her partners income when 
discussing arrangements to pay, that it not updated her contact phone number, that it placed 
her account with a third party company for collection and there was an error in the start date 
for the January 2020 payment arrangement.
Secure Trust didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. It said that it had listened to the calls between itself and Miss P and disagreed it had acted inappropriately. Secure Trust said that following 
the termination of the hire purchase agreement it wasnt obliged to then agree any payment 
plans but despite this, seven payment plans had been agreed.
Secure Trust said that for each of those payment plans an income and expenditure form had 
been completed and that it had been Miss P who had requested that her partners 
contributions from his income be included in the payment plans. It said Miss P had 
repeatedly advised that her partner was assisting her with the repayments. Secure Trust 
said that as Miss Ps partner was both contributing to clearing the arrears for this account 
and paying towards household bills it was important to take into account the partners 
income when looking at payment arrangements to make sure no party was caused financial 
hardship.
Secure Trust said it could find no record of Miss P advising it of a change of phone number. 
It also said that placing the account with a third-party collections company had been 
appropriate in January 2020 in light of the history. Secure Trust said Miss P had been made 
aware of what could happen should payment arrangements not be maintained.
In regard to extending the length of the agreed credit, Secure Trust said that wasnt possible 
because the interest had been calculated on the basis that the hire purchase agreement had 
been set for five years and it needed to be cleared by June 2021. It offered to explore other 
payment arrangements with Miss P.
Miss P disagreed with the Secure Trusts decision and complained to this service. She said 
Secure Trust had acted unfairly by taking into account her partners income, that she had 
been bullied by it when asking for help and it had unreasonably refused lower offers to clear 
the arrears.
Our investigator didnt recommend Miss Ps complaint should be upheld. He said that 
looking at the evidence, Secure Trust had taken Miss Ps partners income into account at 
her request. And that he thought Secure Trust had offered Miss P the right level of support. 
Miss P hadnt been able to keep to the arrangements to clear the arrears and our 
investigator said in light of that, he thought it had been appropriate to pass the account on to 
the third-party company in January 2020 for collection. Our investigator also said he noted 
that Secure Trust had offered a further opportunity for a payment arrangement to be put in 
place which he thought was fair.
Miss P disagreed with our investigators view. She said Secure Trust had refused to lower 
payments and so she felt she had no choice but to allow her partner to help her financially. 
Miss P said her partner had only intended to help out in the short-term, but she had been 
bullied and taken advantage of when vulnerable. Miss P also said the car wasnt worth the 
outstanding balance on the account.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Miss P has been through a difficult time with her health and that this has meant 
she has been unable to work leading to additional pressures trying to manage the various 
household expenses. Im sorry she has experienced such a stressful time.
Ive been provided with a number of calls between Miss P and Secure Trust together with the notes Secure Trust have made on her account to assist me with my decision. And Ive 
also seen that Miss P was anxious not to have the car repossessed as she would need it 
once she was ready to return to work.
Looking first at Miss Ps complaint that Secure Trust acted unfairly in taking her partners 
income into account when considering appropriate payment plans for her. Im afraid I 
disagree with Miss P and will explain why. Listening to the various calls and reviewing the 
notes made by Secure Trust for Miss Ps account Ive seen that it was Miss P who informed 
Secure Trust that her partner was making a regular £25pw payment towards the account 
due to the arrears. She also said, on different occasions, that they were happy to continue 
with this payment to assist her. I havent seen any evidence that it was Secure Trust who 
asked that this contribution was made by Miss Ps partner or that it had pressed for this 
contribution to be made on a long-term basis or expressed any expectation that it would be 
made.
From the payments received for Miss Ps account, it appears that even when Miss P wasnt 
paying the monthly contractual amount her partner made the £25pw payments regularly to 
Secure Trust. Miss Ps partner was also present during some of the discussions about 
income and expenditure with Secure Trust at Miss Ps instigation. They dont appear to have 
raised that any offer of assistance was short-term. And in July 2019, Miss P together with 
her partner, informed Secure Trust over the phone that her partner was willing to increase 
the amount they were paying. 
The FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) is the sourcebook for credit regulated 
activities. It contains rules for responsible lending by consumer credit companies and 
provides rules on the treatment of customers in default and arrears. This includes treating 
the customer fairly and with forbearance, giving them reasonable time and opportunity to 
repay the debt. Here, Secure Trust consulted with Miss P as to how the arrears would be 
cleared even after the agreement had been terminated. Payment plans were reached based 
on the income and expenditure forms and the disposable income available. I havent seen 
any evidence that that the plans were for unreasonably large amounts in the circumstances. 
In total seven payment plans were arranged but unfortunately all then broke down 
Ive also seen that each time a payment arrangement was made this was based on the 
figures given when completing a new income and expenditure form. And each time a form 
was completed Miss P had explained that her partner contributed to the household expenses 
and that it was also they who would be paying the arrears that accrued for the various utility 
bills. It appears that Miss P and her partner pooled their incomes to run their household. I 
think in light of that, I would have expected Secure Trust to have asked questions about the 
households income to ensure any payment plan it agreed was affordable for both parties in 
that household. This means it would have needed to include Miss Ps partner income in any 
consideration of income and expenditure even though Miss Ps partner had no responsibility 
under the agreement.
Miss P raised a concern in August 2019 that Secure Trust were taking her partners income 
into account and at that point it undertook an income and expenditure check for Miss Ps 
income alone. It acted on her complaint that the payment plan put in place was too high and 
agreed to reduce the payments as she requested. When working out the affordability of that 
plan, Miss P told the agent that her partner would be taking over the priority bills and other 
expenses for a period of time.
Miss P has raised that Secure Trust bullied her into agreeing payment plans that were 
beyond her ability to pay and led her to suffer financial difficulties. But listening to the calls 
and reading the notes I havent heard anything that I would reasonably say had been 
bullying on the part of Secure Trust. It was often cautious about accepting offers from Miss P and would ask for details about her income and outgoings to ensure affordability. It delayed 
one payment plan while details as to payment plans for priority debts were being sorted out. 
It also agreed to look at her income alone. Ive also seen that it set payment arrangements 
that were lower than the amount of disposable income calculated after recording the income 
and expenses of Miss P and the household. I think Secure Trust correctly advised her about 
the risk of the car being repossessed in the circumstances.
I appreciate Miss P says she was frustrated that the term of the credit agreement wasnt 
extended but I dont think Secure Trust was obliged to extend the period beyond that agreed 
in the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement. It has explained that it was due 
to the way the interest had been calculated. 
I also think its fair to raise that the credit agreement here was for a car. This means that 
Secure Trust has secured the loan value against the car so, while the value of the car 
decreases with age and use, the loan balance should also reduce alongside. However, if the 
agreement term was extended then the value of the car may be less than the balance 
outstanding on the loan. So, should Miss P remain in arrears, this might have meant that 
Secure Trust wouldnt have a reasonable chance of recovering the cost of the loan if the car 
was subsequently repossessed.
However, even though Secure Trust didnt agree to extend the actual term of the loan it did 
agree to change the period over which the arrears on the account could be cleared, 
changing it from three months to seven. And in its final response letter to Miss Ps complaint 
Secure Trust offered to extend the period in which the arrears should be cleared until the 
end of the agreements term.  Based on the evidence Ive seen I think that Secure Trust has 
treated Miss P fairly and with forbearance. She has been able to keep the car so far.
Miss P has raised the current value of the car as she says it isnt worth the outstanding 
balance on the account. While I appreciate that may be correct, I dont think that is 
something I can take into account when looking at Secure Trusts actions in respect of this 
account. Miss P was happy with the agreement and its applicable interest rate when she 
entered into it. Secure Trust was entitled to seek that the agreements terms and conditions 
were adhered to by Miss P.
Mss P has informed us that she made the difficult decision to become bankrupt in October 
2021. She says this is further evidence about her financial difficulties. While I accept that, 
Ive also seen that Miss P wasnt able to return to the level of earnings she had prior to ill 
health. I dont know whether there were other changes to the households income but I dont 
think I can fairly say the cause of Miss Ps decision to become bankrupt was due solely to 
the actions of Secure Trust and the way it handled her account.
So, for the reasons set out above, and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to 
Miss P, Im not upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman