DRN-4194773
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) refuses to refund him 
losses after he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
On 17 November 2016, Mr B transferred £100,000 (plus a banking fee) to a foreign asset 
management company (Ill call S) from a NatWest branch. Mr B says he agreed to send S 
£100,000 for S to use to carry out Forex trading, and in return, S would pay him interest at 
1.25% for the use of his money. Mr B learned about S though his own friends and it seems 
he had friends/acquaintances that had already been part of such an arrangement. S was a 
regulated asset management business although regulated in another jurisdiction. 
From January 2017 until October 2017, Mr B received monthly payments of £1,250 in line 
with his agreement. But after this, the payments stopped. It seems Mr B was initially told that 
the payments would now be paid quarterly and, following this, that S had experienced some 
banking issues that had been resolved. But no further payments were received. 
In 2019, the foreign regulator liquidated S saying it didnt have sufficient assets and noted 
that it might have been a Ponzi scheme. However, it went on to say it had no specific facts 
at the moment that would confirm such suspect. 
Mr B says S emailed him to say it was in the process of trying to return all monies owed to its 
consumers. In December 2021, after no further monies were returned, Mr B contacted 
NatWest to tell it that he had been the victim of a scam and asked for its help in trying to 
retrieve the money sent. 
NatWest contacted the recipient bank to ask for any money still retained but got a reply 
saying nothing was left to be returned. NatWest explained this to Mr B. 
Mr B then asked NatWest to refund the money he sent. He felt that NatWest ought to have 
noticed the large amount being transferred out of his account in branch, that this was 
unusual for him and asked some basic questions about why this was happening. While he 
may still have pushed ahead with the transaction (believing it to be a genuine opportunity at 
the time), he still felt NatWest had failed to protect him so should now refund him the money. 
NatWest maintained it had done nothing wrong, that Mr B would have had to complete a 
form in branch to ensure the payment was being sent to a legitimate business (although no 
paperwork was retained from 2016), and that it acted swiftly in 2021 by contacting the 
recipient bank to attempt to recover Mr Bs payment. 
Mr B highlighted that NatWest had refunded another consumer involved with this 
arrangement and didnt understand why it hadnt refunded him. 
Unhappy with its response he referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into what happened and didnt think NatWest should have to return the money to 
Mr B. Mr B asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter re-iterating that he had been the 
victim of a scam and NatWest had refunded another customer who had been the victim of 
the same scam. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me. 
In my provisional decision of 23 May 2023, I set out why I was minded to not upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. NatWest replied that it had no further comments. Mr B 
submitted some additional comments which I will address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Not every complaint referred to us as an investment scam is in fact a scam. Some cases 
simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in losses. Some investment companies 
may use sales methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst 
customers who lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as scams, they 
do not necessarily mean S set out with the intention of dishonestly making a gain for 
itself and causing loss to others. 
There are several factors here that indicate that this wasnt a scam at all, such as S being 
regulated (albeit in another jurisdiction), that it operated successfully for some time and Mr B 
saw consistent returns for almost a year. Additionally, the transaction was made in branch in 
one large lump sum rather than smaller transactions we usually see encouraged by 
scammers to avoid being detected by the bank. Even after S was liquidated, Mr B says it 
sent him further emails asking him to be patient while it returned the monies owed to him 
(which is unusual for a scam where the perpetrators tend to disappear after obtaining the 
funds from the victim). 
I also have to bear in mind, like our investigator says, there were no warnings or alerts in 
place at the time indicating that the asset management company may be a scam. It is still 
only marked as a discontinued business due to lack of assets and described as a failed 
asset management company generally online (although I accept this may be due to a lack of 
evidence rather than the company being completely legitimate). 
I do take note of the liquidators suspicions that this may have been a Ponzi scheme and 
how it looks like a substantial amount of money was lost in a very short space of time. I can 
see why Mr B feels like this was a scam from the outset. So, Ive thought about whether 
NatWest ought to have done anything differently, if this was indeed a scam, and whether its 
fair to hold it liable for any losses. 
However, these concerns didnt come to light until 2019, almost 3 years after the transaction 
was carried out at a NatWest branch. NatWest says a form would have been completed 
noting the details of the recipient  but this document is only retained for a year. Given the 
length of time since the transaction happened, this is no longer available, and I dont think 
thats unreasonable. So, I have to decide this case based on the available evidence. 
Generally, banks have an obligation to process the payments its customer authorises it to 
make both under the regulations applicable and the terms and conditions of accounts. 
However, banks also have a duty to try to prevent their customers falling victim to a scam. 
Banks need to strike a balance between intervening in payments to prevent scams or financial harm, against the risk of unnecessarily inconveniencing or delaying legitimate 
transactions. 
Given that the recipient details Mr B likely gave at the time, were the details of a regulated 
asset management company, and S hadnt been identified as a fraudulent company when 
the payment was made, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for the branch staff to 
have chosen not to intervene and process the payment  as NatWest is required to do. 
There was nothing in place at the time that would have alerted the staff or NatWest that this 
was anything more than a legitimate payment to a financial business. Even if the staff had 
made further enquiries regarding this matter, I have no doubt Mr B would have been honest 
and forthcoming and explained he was sending this to the company for the purpose of Forex 
trading. And I dont think this would have enabled NatWest to stop the payment or changed 
Mr Bs mind about sending the payment. 
I understand Mr B has mentioned that his contract was actually with another UK based 
company not with S directly. However, I can see from his statements that the money was 
sent to S, which was a foreign regulated business. And I have to assess what information 
NatWest had when it decided not to intervene. And given that the recipient details Mr B likely 
gave was Ss, as set out above, I dont think NatWest could have been expected to do 
anything differently. As Ive also explained (and it seem Mr B accepts), even if NatWest had 
asked Mr B further questions about where the money was going, Mr B likely would have 
explained it was being sent for Forex trading, which wouldnt have in all likelihood given 
NatWest any reason to be concerned or probe any further. And had it done so, given Mr Bs 
understanding of the arrangement, and his belief of how his friends had earned a good 
return from their arrangements, I dont think it would have prevented him from sending the 
money in any event. 
I can also see NatWest acted promptly to try to retrieve Mr Bs money in 2021 when Mr B 
asked for its help. As this was some 5 years after the money had been sent, its not 
surprising that no funds remained available to be returned. 
I appreciate Mr Bs view that NatWest ought to have asked more questions, but I dont agree 
that this means he is entitled to recover the amounts he has lost from NatWest. Where 
NatWest has not caused the loss and could not have mitigated the loss, I dont think its fair 
to hold it liable for the losses Mr B has suffered. While I sympathise with Mr Bs position and 
appreciate that he lost a substantial amount of money, this was not due to the fault of 
NatWest.
I also understand Mr B says NatWest has refunded another customer. However, I have to 
decide each case on the individual merits of that case. While NatWest may have refunded 
another customer, this doesnt mean I can compel it to refund Mr B the amounts he has lost. 
While this may be frustrating for Mr B, this doesnt change my view of his complaint. 
It may be helpful to explain, that NatWest didnt scam Mr B and was not the perpetrator of 
his losses. And, as explained above, banks usually are under an obligation to process 
payments authorised by consumers. Where consumers authorise such payments, the 
starting point is that consumers must bear the losses. In order for me to uphold a complaint 
of this nature, and hold NatWest liable for the losses instead of Mr B, Id need to be satisfied 
that NatWest had failed in its duty to protect Mr B in some way, and that failure could either 
have stopped the losses from occurring in the first place or helped to mitigate the losses 
once notified of the potential scam (by retrieving the money for example). 
Overall, while I understand Mr B has lost out on a significant amount of money, ultimately, 
Mr B paid a legitimate company at the time. So, I cannot safely conclude that NatWest acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by not intervening to ask questions about the transaction before it was let go. Even if it had done so, where there were no warning signs or alerts about S at 
the time, NatWest would unlikely have acted any differently and I think it would have 
processed the transaction as instructed by Mr B. I am also satisfied NatWest acted promptly 
to try to recover any amounts remaining once Mr B asked for its help. Given the length of 
time that had passed since the transaction occurred, I dont think NatWest could have 
retrieved any money at this stage. So, while Im very sorry for the losses Mr B has suffered, I 
see no reason to hold NatWest liable for the losses.
Mr B replied to my provisional asking me to consider the points set out below. Id like to re-
assure Mr B that Ive read everything he has sent in, but Ive highlighted his main points 
below: 
Mr B provided further detail as to why this scheme was a scam and not a failed 
investment, and also offered some additional information as to the criminal 
investigations that had taken place and were still in progress. 
Mr B added that he didnt think that this just a scam, but organised crime committing 
large scale fraud behind the legitimacy of regulated companies. 
NatWests branch transfer form would not have given them information about the 
legitimacy of S or its directors  and Mr B questioned whether NatWests duty of care 
extended beyond that. Mr B says that comments made by the liquidator suggest the 
whole scheme set up was unsustainable from the start.  
NatWest now takes its responsibilities more seriously with further authentication and 
warnings when making transfers  but did nothing of the sort at the time Mr B made 
his transfer. 
Id firstly like to explain that NatWests duty of care to protect its customers from financial 
harm only exists where customers are being scammed and not when they make investments 
choices (that naturally carry risk). But I had already assessed Mr Bs case as if this scheme 
was a scam, holding NatWest to the higher standard. This is already set out in my 
provisional decision. While I appreciate the information Mr B has given me, I have already 
accepted Mr B was the victim of a scam and decided whether I think NatWest failed in its 
duty of care towards him. 
Secondly, Id like to explain that NatWest is not obligated to carry out due diligence on the 
recipient of customers transfers  in the way Mr B appears to suggest. Bearing in mind the 
number of transfers that are made daily, that is not something that banks can be expected to 
do. The obligation is on consumers to carry out their due diligence and seek specialist 
advice if needed. NatWest is simply expected to monitor transactions and where a 
transaction appears suspicious, NatWest is expected to speak to its consumers and share 
any information it has to help consumers make informed choices about their transfers. This 
does in many cases prevent consumers falling victim to scams. 
In Mr Bs case, as explained in my provisional decision, there were no alerts and nothing 
suspicious about the transfer that ought to have triggered an intervention from NatWest. And 
even if NatWest had intervened to speak to Mr B further about his transfer, there is nothing 
Mr B could have said at that point that would have warranted NatWest taking any further 
action, or prevented Mr B from continuing to send his money. There were no alerts, themes, 
or signs that he was being scammed at the time. I appreciate Mr B notes that the scheme 
itself was unsustainable from the start, but NatWest cannot be expected to delve into the 
financials of the recipient of customer transfers before processing a transaction  its duty of 
care does not extend to this degree.
Due to the increasing volume and complex nature of scams in recent times, financial 
business such as NatWest routinely warn consumers about scams and monitor transactions to try to protect their consumers from financial harm. It may well be that Mr B has seen a 
marked difference in the way NatWest now processes transfers  as is the case for many 
financial businesses. But this doesnt mean that it failed in its duty of care to him in 2016. I 
have to assess NatWest based on the information it had available at the time the transfer 
was made to decide whether it acted reasonably or whether it missed a clear opportunity to 
help Mr B. But as Ive explained in my provisional decision, I dont think this was the case. I 
dont think either NatWest or Mr B had enough information in 2016 that would have enabled 
them to figure out that Mr B was being scammed and therefore couldnt have acted any 
differently. And NatWest was under no obligation to delve into Ss set up to ascertain 
whether it was a scammer or a legitimate investment company. 
So, as Ive set out earlier in my provisional decision, I am very sorry for the losses Mr B has 
suffered. I can see he has put in a considerable amount of time and effort to put his case 
forward and I appreciate the time he has taken to give us the information he has access to. 
But I am still of the view that NatWest has not failed in its duty of care to him, and so I cannot 
hold it liable for the losses that Mr B suffered. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman