DRN-3389857
The complaint
Mrs J complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) mis-sold her a 
Free-Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan. 
Mrs J is represented in her complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). But Ill 
only refer to her in my decision.
What happened
I understand that Mrs J and her husband met with a Prudential adviser on 9 June 1999 to 
discuss general financial planning. And that this led to Mrs J taking Prudentials advice to 
take out an FSAVC plan. 
At the time, Mrs J was a member of her employers Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS).
A fact find was completed in June 1999. At the time of the advice, the following information 
was recorded about Mrs J:
She was 37 years old.
She was employed and earned £15,000 each year. 
She was married with two dependent children.
She had been a member of her employers defined benefit OPS since shed started 
work with them in November 1998.
Mrs J agreed to start an FSAVC plan on 29 June 1999, signing the application form on that 
date. She was going to pay monthly contributions of £52. 
Prudential sent Mrs J a recommendations letter dated 2 July 1999. This stated:
I have given you a copy of the leaflet AVC  some important features and have explained 
the contents to you.
The letter also stated:
Please note: The benefits of additional savings for retirement have been explained to you. 
The relative merits of FSAVCs and AVCs were covered. You chose the FSAVC plan 
because of the choice of investment with Prudential and its flexibility.
On 16 July 2021, Mrs J complained to Prudential about the sale through her CMC. She felt 
that shed been mis-sold the FSAVC plan. She made the following points:
The adviser had failed to accurately assess the level of risk she was willing to take.
There was no justifiable reason for her to have the portable FSAVC as she was likely 
to remain in the same employment until retirement.
The adviser had failed to establish if her OPS had an added years or an enhanced 
AVC arrangement that she wouldve chosen if shed been properly advised.
There was no evidence that the adviser had compared the benefits of the FSAVC 
with additional contributions to her OPSs AVC arrangement.
The adviser shouldve referred her to her OPS for full details of the charges so she 
could make an informed choice.
There was no evidence that the adviser made her fully aware of the comparison of 
charges with the FSAVC hed recommended and the in-house AVC scheme.
There was no evidence that more suitable retirement options had been discussed 
with her in a fair and balanced way.
If the adviser had advised her correctly, she wouldve contributed to the most suitable 
in-house AVC arrangement.
Prudential issued its final response to the complaint on 21 July 2021. It didnt uphold it. It 
said it was part of the sales process for its advisers to discuss the main features of the 
arrangement they were recommending, including the risks involved. And it hadnt found any 
evidence that its adviser hadnt followed the normal sales process.
Prudential also said the FSAVC had been invested in the only fund available for that type of 
policy. And that this wouldve been explained to Mrs J at the time of the advice. It felt this 
was a relatively low risk investment, which was suitable for all types of investors.
Prudential also said that itd found no evidence in the documentation that Mrs J had believed 
she was likely to remain with the same employer until retirement. It said shed only just 
joined her employer. It also said that it couldnt offer any form of advice on the two in-house 
options. And that all it could do was refer Mrs J to her employer/OPS for further information. 
Prudential also said that its 2 July 1999 recommendations letter had confirmed that Mrs J 
had been given the leaflet Additional Voluntary Contributions  Some Important Features, 
which it said went into a lot of detail about the relative merits of the FSAVC and an in-house 
arrangement. It said its adviser had explained the contents to her. It felt that if Mrs J had 
wanted further details about the in-house AVC she couldve contacted her OPS to discuss. 
Prudential also said why it felt that added years may not have been Mrs Js natural choice in 
1999.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs J brought her complaint to this service, through her CMC, 
on 6 October 2021.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She felt Prudentials adviser 
had provided Mrs J with a leaflet which she felt Mrs J wouldve considered before deciding 
on the FSAVC option. She also felt that the leaflet had contained clear information about the 
in-house AVC option. Therefore she considered that Mrs J had been informed in accordance 
with the regulators expectations before starting the FSAVC plan. 
Our investigator also considered whether Mrs J wouldve chosen the added years option if 
the adviser had informed her about it. While she felt she hadnt seen any evidence that the 
adviser had made Mrs J aware of this type of arrangement, she didnt think Mrs J wouldve 
opted to purchase added years. She said this was because she felt the added years option wouldve likely appeared expensive compared to the projected returns and benefits available 
from the FSAVC or in-house AVC options. And because the recommendations letter had 
noted that Mrs J had said that she didnt want to contribute into the FSAVC plan at the 
maximum limit the adviser had initially recommended.
Overall, our investigator didnt think that Mrs J had been mis-advised.
Mrs J didnt agree with our investigator. Through her CMC, she made the following points:
She felt that the sale had taken place well after the regulator had issued its 
regulatory update (RU20) in May 1996. So she felt that Prudential shouldve 
been used to following the guidance. But she didnt feel that the adviser had 
followed RU20, because she didnt consider shed been given enough 
information to make an informed decision. 
She felt Prudential hadnt made her aware of the in-house AVC. And that it 
hadnt discussed the generic features of the in-house options and the 
FSAVC. 
In particular, she felt Prudential shouldve discussed with her the likelihood of 
lower charges for the in-house AVC. 
She also felt she shouldve been directed to her employer/OPS to obtain 
more information on her in-house options.
Mrs J also said that the recommendations letter didnt cover charges. Nor did 
it mention any detailed discussions. 
She didnt agree that the leaflet Prudential said it had provided was sufficient 
to cover the points above. Instead, she felt the adviser shouldve done 
more. Mrs J said that if shed been appropriately advised, she wouldve 
chosen the in-house AVC option. This was because it offered her 
substantially the same product at a cheaper cost. 
Our investigator considered Mrs Js comments. But they didnt change her opinion. She still 
felt that Prudential had provided Mrs J with enough information to allow her to make an 
informed decision about whether the FSAVC or the in-house AVC was more appropriate. 
As part of her investigation, our investigator also considered that the advice had taken place 
more than six years ago. So she considered whether time limits applied to this complaint. 
She said she hadnt seen anything to suggest that Mrs J ought to have been aware more 
than three years prior to the date of her complaint that she had cause to complain. Therefore 
she didnt consider the complaint to be time barred. But she said shed be happy to consider 
any additional information either party provided on this point.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Before I investigated the merits of the complaint, I first considered whether time limits applied to this complaint. Based on what Ive seen, I agree with our investigator that the 
complaint isnt time barred. So Ive gone on to consider the merits of this complaint. 
I first looked at the regulatory position at the time of the advice.
Regulatory position at the time of the advice
The advice complained about took place in June 1999. At this time, there were different rules 
on what advisers needed to do, depending on whether they were independent financial 
advisers or tied advisers.
Mrs Js adviser was a tied adviser. The rules he operated under meant he could only offer 
products from one provider - he wasnt allowed to sell products from any other provider. So 
we wouldnt have expected the adviser to investigate and directly make a recommendation 
on whether Mrs Js in-house AVC or added years options with her employer wouldve been 
better for her than the FSAVC. 
In May 1996 Regulatory Update 20 (RU20) was issued. This codified the procedures it 
expected product providers to follow in future sales. It said that before selling an FSAVC tied 
advisers should:
Draw the consumer's attention to the in-house alternative
Discuss the generic differences between the two routes 
Direct the consumer to her employer or the OPS for more information on the in-
house option
RU20 also referred to the lower charges under an in-house AVC in general terms. It said:
Charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under FSAVCs, reflecting 
economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to administration expenses by the 
employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this is likely to exert the greatest 
impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the client.
Both before and after May 1996, tied advisers needed to explain the generic differences of 
the AVCs and FSAVCs to the consumer. And advisers knew that the charges under the in-
house AVCs were likely to be cheaper.
I next looked at what both Prudential and Mrs J said about the complaint.
Prudentials position
Prudential said that its recommendations letter had confirmed that Mrs J had been given the 
leaflet Additional Voluntary Contributions  Some Important Features. It said this went into 
detail about the relative merits of the FSAVC and an in-house arrangement. And that its 
adviser had explained the contents to Mrs J. It therefore felt that it had met the requirements 
of RU20.
Mrs Js position
Mrs J didnt consider that the leaflet shed been given had provided enough information to 
allow her to make an informed decision. She felt that Prudential hadnt made her aware of 
the in-house AVC. Or discussed the generic features of the in-house options and the 
FSAVC. She felt the adviser hadnt informed her about the likely lower charges for the in-house AVC. And said these hadnt been covered in the recommendations letter. 
Mrs J also felt that Prudential shouldve directed her to her employer/OPS to get more 
information on her in-house options. She said that if shed been appropriately advised, she 
wouldve chosen the in-house AVC option, which she felt wouldve offered the same benefits 
for a lower cost. 
Ive carefully considered what both parties have told this service. Based on the regulatory 
regime at the time of the advice, Id expect the adviser to have made Mrs J aware that an in-
house alternative was available through her OPS. And to have discussed the generic 
differences between the two options. Id also expect him to have directed Mrs J to her 
employer or the OPS for further information if shed wanted it.
Its impossible for me to know exactly what the adviser discussed with Mrs J. But Ive 
carefully reviewed the documentation from the time of the advice. This includes Prudentials 
recommendations letter dated 2 July 1999 and the AVC leaflet. 
The leaflet Prudential said it discussed with Mrs J at the time of the advice contained the 
following statements:
Although free-standing AVCs and in-house AVCs essentially fulfil the same purpose there 
are some important differences which you should be aware of before you decide which 
product is most suitable for you
Information on any 'in-house' scheme will be available from your employer or pension 
scheme trustees
Some employers offer to match a scheme member's contributions to an 'in-house' AVC with 
extra contributions to the occupational scheme, if this is the case it is unlikely that you would 
be better off with an FSAVC...
Some in-house AVC schemes offer additional benefits such as life cover which would 
require extra contributions with an FSAVC
It is difficult to be specific with regard to the differences in costs between AVCS and FSAVCs 
as product structures vary considerably. The cost of running your AVC or FSAVC is 
important as it will affect your final benefits, however you should also take into account other 
factors such as the funds you are investing in and the financial strength of your provider to 
be able to select the appropriate investments that make up these funds in the case of with -
profits' plans
In many cases the employer bears some, or all of the administration costs whereas in the 
case of an FSAVC these costs are borne by the customer
This service sees a number of this type of leaflets with complaints of this sort. Sometimes we 
consider that a leaflet mayve been written in an unbalanced or biased way. But, having 
carefully reviewed this leaflet, Im satisfied it wasnt unfairly biased towards the FSAVC plan. 
I say this because it contained a number of points which favoured the in-house AVC option 
over the FSAVC plan. 
I acknowledge that theres no evidence in the meeting notes or the recommendations letter 
that Mrs Js adviser told her she should contact her employer/OPS to get more details about 
her in-house options. But I consider that the leaflet did clearly show that an in-house 
alternative would be available through Mrs Js OPS. I say this because it stated: Since 1989, any employer who offers an in-house occupational pension scheme also has 
to provide an AVC facility, so, if you are a member of your employers pension scheme, you 
will also be eligible to make contributions to the in-house AVC facility. Information on any 
in-house scheme will be available from your employer or pension scheme trustees.
I consider that this clearly shows that Mrs J did have an in-house AVC option with her OPS. I 
also note that the leaflet stated: 
Information on any 'in-house' scheme will be available from your employer or pension 
scheme trustees. 
In my view, this directed Mrs J to her employer or OPS for further information if she wanted 
it. 
Im also satisfied that the generic differences between the two options were covered in the 
leaflet, as shown in the extracts Ive included above. 
I also note that the 2 July 1999 recommendations letter stated that the adviser had given Mrs 
J a copy of the above leaflet. And also stated that the adviser had explained the relative 
merits of FSAVCs and AVCs within that explanation. Ive no evidence that Mrs J didnt get 
the leaflet. Or that she didnt get the recommendations letter. Therefore I consider it more 
likely than not that Mrs J did receive the leaflet, and that the adviser did explain the contents 
of the leaflet to Mrs J. As such, Im satisfied that the adviser did effectively tell Mrs J to 
contact her OPS to explore her options in order to make an informed choice, as she said 
they shouldve. 
I agree with Mrs J that the recommendations letter didnt cover the charges associated with 
the FSAVC. Nor did it explain that it was likely that the charges under the in-house AVC 
option were likely to be lower. But, as noted above, the letter did reference the AVC leaflet. I 
consider that this provided a clear explanation about why the in-house AVC option was likely 
to carry lower costs. I also consider that the leaflet clearly described the main differences 
between the in-house and FSAVC options. And that this wouldve given Mrs J enough 
information to understand that the in-house AVC could provide other benefits, as well as 
potentially being cheaper. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the adviser did enough to draw Mrs Js attention to the existence of 
the in-house AVC option. And that he highlighted the main differences between the options. 
Ive also seen that he directed her to obtain further information from her OPS. 
Having considered all the evidence, Ive found no evidence that Prudential failed to give Mrs 
J suitable advice. I consider that the adviser met his obligations under the regulations at the 
time. Therefore I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman