DRN-4378010
The complaint
Mr R has complained about a kitchen he paid for using a fixed sum loan with Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF). 
What happened
In July 2022 Mr R entered into a contract with a kitchen supplier for a kitchen (supply only) to 
be paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF. The kitchen cost around £11,500 
and Mr R paid a deposit of around £1,700. Mr R was due to pay back the agreement over 
five years with monthly payments of around £160. 
The events are well known to the parties, so Im not going to go over everything again here. 
But in summary, Mr R says the goods were due to be delivered in August 2022. He said 
some items were missing or faulty and there were failed deliveries. He also says the kitchen 
units didnt fit properly. So over the next few months he complained to the supplier about the 
issues. Mr R says he informed BPF of his claim towards the end of October 2022. 
The supplier made an offer to Mr R in January 2023 which he wasnt happy with. He made a 
counteroffer. Mr R says he stopped paying towards the fixed sum loan agreement in January 
2023 to try to force BPF to respond. 
In February 2023 the supplier put three options to Mr R to resolve matters. 
The first option was for the supplier to collect the kitchen and issue a full refund along with 
cancellation of the fixed sum loan agreement. It would cover the cost of the kitchen removal 
at £250. It would consider additional costs for work tops to be removed and gas and electric 
to be capped  if quotes are provided. It would allow Mr R 45 days to keep the kitchen to 
source an alternative. 
The second option was to provide replacement goods which it detailed. It would provide a 
20% discount totalling £2,314. And it would pay Mr R £500 to go towards installation costs. 
The third option was an allowance of £5,500 which would enable Mr R to keep the kitchen, 
but the warranty would cease. 
Mr R wasnt happy with the offers. He gave another counteroffer. He said hed accept £9,000 
along with replacement of the faulty units. He requested adverse information was cleared on 
his credit file along with confirmation. He said hed drop other claims as well as the warranty. 
The second option Mr R gave was for the supplier to remove the goods. He requested £500 
per day storage costs from the date of delivery to the date of removal. He requested £15,000 
compensation. Along with compensation for storing his worktops while sourcing a 
replacement kitchen. And he requested adverse information to be removed from his credit 
file along with confirmation. 
BPF thought the offers made by the supplier was fair. And the complaint was referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman to consider. 
One of our investigators looked into things and thought the suppliers offers were broadly 
fair. Mr R didnt agree. He was unhappy BPF didnt come back with an offer to resolve things 
within the time it should have done. Mr R said he doesnt agree a 50% reduction was 
reasonable. He said he was unhappy thered been no mention of the threats from BPF about 
his failure to pay. He said hed accept a 75% cost reduction and his credit file corrected. 
BPF confirmed if Mr R wanted to accept the suppliers third option, the supplier would either 
refund £5,500 to the credit agreement, or it would refund Mr R his deposit and the rest to the 
credit agreement. It also said it would remove all record of the credit agreement from his 
credit file if he chose the first option. 
Mr R didnt accept the offer. He highlighted the distress and inconvenience caused, and that 
thered been a breach of contract. He wanted to highlight that the supplier was continuing to 
mis-sell goods. He also supplied audio and video evidence that he says supports this 
allegation. To summarise Mr R requests damages for the cost on installation; worktops; 
storage; reinstallation; and any damages to goods or his house; along with compensation 
and adverse information removed from his credit file. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I also want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr R and BPF that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. I also want to explain that Im only going to consider the evidence that 
relates to Mr Rs complaint, and the sale of the original kitchen. 
Mr R paid for the kitchen using a fixed sum loan agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement, and our service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of 
agreements. 
I take into account the relevant law. So, in this case, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 makes BPF responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
under certain conditions. I think the necessary relationships between the parties exists and 
the claim is within the relevant financial limits. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. The CRA implies 
terms into the contract that goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA also sets 
out what remedies are available to consumers if statutory rights under a goods (or services) 
contract are not met. 
It's important to note that Im not considering a complaint against the supplier. Im 
considering a complaint against BPF. So I have to consider BPFs obligations as a provider 
of financial services  in this case its liability for breach of contract or misrepresentation 
under section 75. 
Its also important to note that compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by the 
supplier is limited with this type of complaint. I appreciate Mr R is very upset about whats 
happened and hes been put to inconvenience with having various return visits. But I have to 
consider what BPF can be held liable for  which is the like claim Mr R would have in court 
against the supplier for breach of contract or misrepresentation. Courts do consider whats 
known as general damages. But damages in breach of contract cases arent generally 
recoverable for distress or inconvenience. Awards in building cases where theres been a 
breach of contract which caused the claimant physical distress or discomfort can be made, but they tend to be modest. Moreover, while I appreciate Mr R is unhappy hes been living 
with a kitchen with issues, I dont think the nature of the issues have caused physical 
inconvenience or discomfort. I therefore dont have the grounds to direct BPF to pay the 
compensation for this that I think Mr R is looking for.
We dont have an independent report available to review. But Ive considered the 
submissions from Mr R and BPF. It doesnt seem to be in dispute that things have gone 
wrong with the goods. And Ive seen a report from the supplier with photos of what Mr R 
says is wrong. While not a comprehensive independent report, I can see some issues with 
the finish on certain items, and some gaps. So I think theres enough to demonstrate theres 
been a breach of contract because the goods werent of satisfactory quality or as described. 
Where rights under a goods contract arent met, like our investigator pointed out, the CRA 
sets out that depending on circumstances consumers can elect to reject the goods; have 
them repaired/replaced; or seek a price reduction. 
BPF, via the supplier has put some offers to Mr R. Hes got various options, which I think are 
broadly fair. But Im going to propose some slight amendments to them. 
Option 1
The first option was for the supplier to collect the kitchen and issue a full refund along with 
cancellation of the fixed sum loan agreement. It would cover the cost of the kitchen removal 
at £250. It would consider additional costs for work tops to be removed and gas and electric 
to be capped  if quotes are provided. It would allow Mr R 45 days to keep the kitchen to 
source an alternative. 
I think this outcome is broadly fair and in line with allowing Mr R to reject the goods as per 
one of the options in the CRA. However, rather than saying BPF should consider additional 
costs, I think this should be crystalised so as to avoid a dispute down the line. BPF should 
cover the cost to have the worktop removed (if separate to the kitchen removal). And it 
should cover the cost of the gas and electric capping if required. This would be on receipt of 
evidence of the cost, and that its been paid by Mr R. And I think these extra costs should be 
capped at £500. 
However, in addition to that, I think if Mr R were to take this option hed be left with the cost 
of having to reinstall the new kitchen. So hed in effect be paying twice to install a kitchen. 
Thats not fair if its as a result of a breach of contract. We asked Mr R about the cost of 
installing the original kitchen and he indicated it was around £4,000. So providing he 
supplies evidence of the cost, with a breakdown of works along with the evidence of it being 
paid Im minded to say he should get the installation part of the cost back too so hes put 
back in a fair position where he can effectively start again. 
Given the initial installation, the removal, and any further installation is dealt with by Mr R Im 
not proposing to direct BPF to award any other additional costs.
For completeness, I questioned why the kitchen was installed if there were issues with it. But 
it seems like some of the issues (such as the gaps) only came to light when it was installed. 
Mr R has said this was as a result of it being designed incorrectly by the supplier. I 
appreciate this was a goods only contract  but unless Im shown otherwise, I will accept that 
as part of what he paid for, the supplier was to make sure the kitchen fitted properly. If thats 
not right  BPF should let me know with evidence in response to this provisional decision. 
In this scenario, Im not intending to recommend any deduction for the use Mr R has had of 
the kitchen, albeit with the issues hes complained about. I think this seems fair in the round. Option 2
The second option was to provide replacement goods which the supplier detailed. The 
supplier would provide a 20% discount totalling £2,314. And it would pay Mr R £500 to go 
towards installation costs. 
I think this is fair in the circumstances and in line with a repair remedy under the CRA. For 
the avoidance of doubt, I propose BPF needs to take ownership of this. In addition to 
providing replacement goods, I think BPF should arrange with the supplier to supply filler 
panels for the gaps. I think this seems like the most straight-forward way to resolve any 
gaps.
With regards to the credit file. If Mr R was to take up this option, given there was a breach of 
contract, Id propose BPF remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file once hes 
brought the agreement back up to date. 
Option 3
The third option was an allowance of £5,500 which would enable Mr R to keep the kitchen, 
but the warranty would cease. 
I also think this seems broadly fair but, again, BPF should take ownership of this. I 
appreciate Mr R wants a higher deduction. But hes not shown us any evidence why a higher 
deduction is fairer that £5,500. Theres nothing like an independent report that says the 
remedy would cost more than this. So Im not proposing to make any changes to this. But as 
above, If Mr R was to take up this option, given there was a breach of contract, Id propose 
BPF remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file once hes brought the 
agreement back up to date. 
Ive finally thought about how BPF handled things generally. I acknowledge BPF was 
requesting payment from Mr R which hes unhappy about. But I have to bear in mind the 
repayment of the BPF credit agreement is a separate matter to BPFs handling of a claim 
under section 75. So Im not going to direct it to compensate Mr R for seeking payment. But I 
appreciate Mr R was only ceasing payments due to the issues he had with the goods. 
Moreover, as I explained before, I cant hold BPF liable for the ongoing customer service 
from the supplier. And Im limited in what can be recommended for damages under a breach 
of contract for non-pecuniary losses. Im conscious it looks like BPF was trying to sort things 
out with the supplier. And that BPF isnt a kitchen supplier. But given it was put on notice of 
the complaint in October 2022, it wasnt until February 2023 it gave its answer. I think it 
couldve handled things sooner. And had it done so, Mr R wouldve been given an answer 
sooner and things mightve been resolved for him already. So Im also proposing BPF pay 
him £250 for the way things were handled. 
Mr R has come back to say he is willing to proceed with option 3 if his credit file is corrected. 
BPF responded and added some comments to what Id proposed under options 1 and 2. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF hasnt responded with any comments on what Id proposed for option 3. Seeing as 
though Mr R has accepted this option, I see no reason to depart from what I set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance should arrange 
an allowance of £5,500 as set out in my provisional decision (with the warranty to cease). 
If Mr R accepts this decision, he should liaise with BPF to discuss how the allowance should 
be paid. He may with to use part of this to clear the arrears. 
BPF should also remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file once hes brought 
the agreement back up to date.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to put things right in the way Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman