DRN-2324934
The complaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage held with Bank of Scotland by the late 
Ms K. Ms Ks estate is represented here by the executors, Mr K (her son) and Mrs A (her 
daughter). They complain that they only discovered the mortgage existed two years after Ms 
Ks death. Mrs A, having inherited the mortgaged property believing it to be unencumbered, 
had to take out a mortgage of her own to repay the estates mortgage.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding some of the figures involved. No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn. Another reason I have left 
out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumer when my decision is 
published.
The circumstances of this complaint, briefly, are that the mortgage was taken out by Ms K 
and her late husband, and was secured on a property Ill call 51H. The executors have told 
us that Ms K didnt live in 51H but in a different property Ill call 18C. The mortgaged property 
51H was, as I understand it, occupied by Mrs A and her family. 
Ms K was widowed in 1995, at which point the mortgage became hers alone. Ms K died in 
2016; 51H and the mortgage on it vested in her estate. Mr K and Mrs A were appointed as 
the estates executors, and under the terms of Ms Ks will, Mrs A, along with her husband, 
inherited 51H. However, both executors say they were completely unaware that 51H was still 
subject to a mortgage with Halifax. They believed it had ended in 2014, and say they only 
found out in September 2018 when Halifax wrote to say a field agent would be visiting 51H 
to discuss repayment proposals for the outstanding mortgage of around £33,000.
Halifax was formally notified of Ms Ks death; Mrs A and her husband obtained a mortgage 
of their own (from Halifax) and the estates mortgage was repaid in early 2019. The 
complaint was raised, and Halifax issued its final response in September 2019. It denied 
ever writing in 2014 to say the mortgage had ended, but said that it had written many letters 
between 2014 and 2018 about arrears, the expiry of the mortgage term, and a change of 
account number.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded Halifax had done anything wrong; the executors asked for 
the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They pointed out that all but one of the 
letters Halifax had referred to had been addressed to 51H, so Ms K wouldnt have seen 
them. 
The exception was the letter from 2014 saying the mortgage had ended; that had been 
addressed to 18C and Ms K had definitely received it because shed shown it to another of 
her children, whom Ill identify as JK. The executors also pointed out that the solicitor 
handling the estate had checked with Land Registry and found no evidence of Halifaxs 
interest.
What Ive decided  and why
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair 
in the round. And I reiterate that I have to be mindful that I dont include anything in this 
decision that might identify Ms K or the executors.
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is contradictory, incomplete, or missing altogether, I have to decide what is 
most likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities based on the evidence that is 
available. Thats broadly the same test used by the courts in civil cases.
The most obvious point of contention is the assertion that Halifax wrote to Mrs C at 18C in 
2014 to say the mortgage had ended. Halifax has no record of sending such a letter, and 
indeed no record of 18C as being Mrs Cs correspondence address. All I have as evidence 
the letter was sent is the personal recollection of JK, who says Mrs C showed it to her.
Theres a similar situation with the question over Ms Ks address. Halifax says its only ever 
had 51H in its records; the executors say a member of the local branch staff told them it had 
a record of 18C. 
Whilst Ive regard for their testimony, as the executors of Mrs Cs estate are the ones 
bringing the complaint against Bank of Scotland, to rule in the estates favour, the estates 
version needs to be more likely than Halifaxs version; not even just as likely. And having 
considered everything, on balance I cant say that the estates version is anything other than 
at best just as likely. For that reason I cant rely on that testimony to find that Halifax 
confirmed the end of the mortgage in 2014 or had 18C recorded as Ms Ks correspondence 
address for the mortgage.
As regards what was recorded with Land Registry all that can be verified presently is that 
51H is shown as being subject to the mortgage Mrs A and her husband took out in 2019. So 
thats not something that can be determined one way or another, but in my view, its not 
something on which the outcome of the complaint turns.
That brings me to the many items of correspondence that Halifax can show as having sent. 
All of the items in question were sent to 51H, and they show very clearly that, chiefly 
because of a long history of arrears, a debt was still outstanding on the mortgage. However, 
one of these letters, dated 6 July 2016 (so after Ms K had died but more than two years 
before Halifax was made aware) confirmed that the mortgage term had ended. 
But just because a mortgage term ends, the mortgage itself only ends when all the money 
owed under it had been repaid. In this case, all of the money owing had not been repaid, and the July 2016 letter made this very clear, as did all of the many other letters Halifax sent 
during this period.
I take the point that Ms K didnt live in 51H, but I have to keep in mind that Mrs A did, both 
before and after Ms K had died. Im aware that not all post reaches its intended destination, 
but most does, and theres no evidence of mail addressed to Ms K being returned to Halifax 
as undelivered. 
I mentioned earlier the balance of probabilities test that Im required to apply. It doesnt seem 
likely to me that none of Halifaxs many letters over the years were delivered successfully to 
51H; on the balance of probabilities, I find that most of them would have been. That invites 
the question of why Mrs A would not have passed those letters on to Ms K whilst she was 
still alive, and opened them herself (in her capacity as executor) after Ms K had died.
I cant consider the upset these events will undoubtedly have had on the executors and 
beneficiaries of Ms Ks estate. Ultimately, I can only uphold this complaint if Im satisfied that 
errors or omissions on Halifaxs part caused financial loss to the estate itself. On the 
evidence before me, I dont find that to be the case. The mortgage remained open with an 
outstanding balance until the spring of 2019; that was a valid debt on which interest was 
legitimately due. Theres no reasonable basis for me to say that interest should be refunded 
to the estate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint. My 
final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms K 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman