DRN-3426435
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim on her pet insurance 
policy.
What happened
Ms M was taken unwell and was unable to look after her pet. So she arranged for her former 
dog walker to help while she was in hospital. Ms M paid her £200 but when she asked Great 
Lakes to refund the payment she was declined. 
Ms M said the terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy said her dog had to be put in 
a position where it was safe. Her dog walker was approved by the local council even if she 
wasnt now licensed. And shes a responsible person as far as Ms M is concerned. 
Ms M said she had no other option and did what was right for her pet. So shed like Great 
Lakes to repay the £200 shed given to her friend.
Great Lakes said itd contacted the minder to confirm that she had a licence from the council 
to provide services for pet minding. Great Lakes said it also required an itemised invoice 
from the minder before it could consider the claim. But it hadnt received any supporting 
evidence. So Great Lakes felt itd acted within the terms of the policy in declining the claim.
Ms M wasnt satisfied with Great Lakes response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He felt Great Lakes had been within its rights to decline 
the claim based on insufficient evidence. He could see that the pet minder wasnt licenced to 
mind pets, although she was licenced to go into Ms Ms house and to look after her dog.
After listening to Ms Ms call to the insurer our investigator noted that the sitter hadnt 
charged Ms M a fee. Shed looked after the pet voluntarily and Ms M had chosen to give her 
some money for doing so. Our investigator didnt feel the payment was covered by the terms 
of the policy. And Great Lakes was within its rights not to cover the cost. 
Ms M didnt agree with our investigator. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
Although the sitter had initially refused payment, shed collected the pet, bought food and 
returned her to Ms M. If she hadnt helped then Ms Ms pet wouldve died.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Ms M has faced. Shes been a loyal customer of Great 
Lakes for a number of years. And she feels she did the right thing in taking care of her pet 
while she was unwell. 
Ms M thinks Great Lakes has acted unfairly in declining her claim for the payment she made 
to her former dog walker and friend. 
So Ive looked at everything Ms M has said. But for me to say Great Lakes has done 
something wrong, Id need to see that its decision to decline her claim failed to follow the 
terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy. And in this situation I dont think thats the 
case.
The pet insurance policy has a section titled cover if you need pet minding in an 
emergency. This provides cover for unexpected visits by the policyholder to hospital. The 
terms say it will pay the costs or fees of pet boarding, cattery, kennel or pet sitting.
And it says you must make sure that any pet-sitter you use is licenced. The government 
require a business to have a licence if it provides accommodation for pets away from the 
owners home. 
Ms M was rushed into hospital in the early hours of the morning. So it would certainly be 
reasonable to consider that an emergency. And I do appreciate that it would be very difficult 
to arrange for a licenced pet minder to collect her pet at such a time of day and with the 
necessary urgency required.
But the insurance policy is intended to provide cover for a suitably licenced person or 
business to provide the necessary care. And of course before the insurer considered a claim 
it would expect to receive evidence that the care had been provided and what the cost was.
On this occasion Ms M asked her former dog walker to help. She needed someone who 
could respond quickly. And her friend was also a registered key holder to her property. The 
friend was happy to help and didnt expect any payment. But Ms M felt it right to offer her 
some money for the time and trouble shed been put to looking after her pet for a few days.
While I understand Ms M wanted someone she trusted and who knew her pet, I dont think 
thats the sort of provision the insurance policy is intended to cover. If the friend had 
collected the pet and placed it in suitable care with a licenced pet minder then Id expect 
Great Lakes to consider a claim for the cost of care.
But the person looked after Ms Ms pet because she was acting as a friend. She didnt 
expect any payment. It wasnt a commercial arrangement with a licenced business. The 
friend was just trying to help Ms M while she was unwell. As Ms M remarked when she 
spoke to Great Lakes, "Angie wouldn't have taken money anyway but I gave her £200."
Ms M clearly has a good friend who is willing to help in times of difficulty. And it was kind of 
Ms M to offer her payment to cover her time and the cost of feeding her pet while she was in 
hospital. 
I realise Ms M has found this very upsetting. She was just trying to do the right thing. But I 
dont think Great Lakes has acted unfairly or outside of the terms of the pet insurance policy 
in declining Ms Ms claim. And I dont think Great Lakes acted unreasonably in getting in 
touch with Ms Ms friend to ask for proof of a pet minders licence or for an invoice for the 
amount claimed by Ms M. As Ive explained above Id expect the insurer to ask for 
supporting evidence while it considered the claim.
The pet insurance policy is designed to cover the cost of care provided by an officially 
licenced business when the policyholder isnt able to find someone who can care for their pet 
in an emergency situation. And thats not what happened here. So I cant ask Great Lakes to 
consider Ms Ms claim.
I know this isnt the outcome Ms M was hoping for. But I hope Ive explained why this is the 
right decision  taking into account everything thats happened.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman