DRN-3988946
The complaint
Mr H complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd unfairly refused 
to pay his pet insurance claims. 
My references to Casualty & General include its agents. 
What happened
Mr H made two separate claims for his dog. The first was for ear infections. The second was 
for vet treatment after the dog was found to have a stick lodged in his mouth. 
Casualty & General turned down both claims. It said the ear issues were pre-existing and 
were not covered under its policy. It placed an exclusion for ear related claims backdated to 
the policys start date in 2019. It would not pay the claim for the stick injury because it said 
this didnt meet its policy definition of accidental injury. 
Mr H thought Casualty & Generals rejection of his honest claims had been unfair. His vet 
had supported his claims. Also, he had sent his dogs medical history to Casualty & General 
and it had not put an exclusion on the policy at that time. He asked us to look into his 
complaint. He also mentioned the removal of public liability cover for his dog, but only in the 
context of having sent his dogs medical history to Casualty & General. 
Our Investigator thought Casualty & General had fairly turned down the ear related claims, 
under its pre-existing conditions policy exclusion. Although Mr H had sent his dogs medical 
records, this had been after the policy had started and so Casualty & General had not been 
aware of the ear issues from the outset. But she didnt consider Casualty & General could 
fairly add a retrospective exclusion for any claims with respect to the dogs ears, because it 
could not show that Mr H had failed to answer questions with reasonable care before taking 
out the policy. So, she said Casualty & General should remove the retrospective ear related 
exclusion. She noted that Mr H had accepted Casualty & General could remove the public 
liability cover. 
Our Investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint about the stick injury. She thought the injury met 
the policy definition of an accidental injury. She recommended that Casualty & General pay 
Mr Hs claim with interest together with £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Mr H thought that this was a fair outcome. He restated that he felt he had acted throughout 
in a fair, honest and reasonable manner. Casualty & General did not agree with our 
Investigators findings. In summary, it said that our Investigator had not properly applied its 
policy wording to the stick injury claim. It did not agree the proposed settlement was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H accepted that Casualty & General can remove the public liability cover from the policy. 
He has agreed that our Investigators findings are fair, which includes her view about the ear 
related claim. As these issues are not in dispute, I will focus on the stick injury claim and the 
retrospective exclusion.  
The stick injury claim
Mr H made a claim for accidental injury under his policy after discovering a stick in his dogs 
mouth, which was removed by a vet. In turning down his claim, Casualty & General referred 
to the following policy terms:
The policy says in Section 1 Veterinary Fees, under What is not insured:
Any Dental and Oral Treatment, including any Dental and Oral Treatment that is 
not due to an Accidental Injury, including but not limited to: cosmetic dentistry, 
routine cleaning and descaling or treatment for root canal Dental and Oral tumours, 
cleft palette and over/under shot jaw;
The policy defines the relevant terms as:
Dental and Oral Means any claim or Condition relating to the gums, mouth, inner 
cheek, cheek bone, lips, palette, teeth, tongue, and tonsils.
Accidental InjuryMeans a sudden, unforeseen, unintended action or event, with a 
specific time and place which results in damage to one or more parts of Your pets 
body.
Mr H told Casualty & General that we do not know exactly when the injury occurred. [The 
dog] showed no signs of distress at any time. It was only when playing with him that the stick 
was observed stuck in his upper jaw. We also then noticed that his breath was beginning to 
smell.
Casualty & General says its policy states that a specific time and place is required. As Mr H 
cannot give a specific time or place for the stick injury it does not meet the policy definition of 
Accidental Damage. 
I dont agree that it is fair for Casualty & General not to pay the claim because Mr H could 
not give a specific time and place for the injury. In any event, I can look beyond the strict 
policy wording in deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
In this case, I think it is reasonable to find that the stick getting caught in the dogs mouth 
was a sudden, unforeseen, unintended action or event. The fact that Mr H did not observe 
the exact time and place this happened is not, in my view, a fair reason to reject the claim for 
this injury. I think it is more likely than not, on balance, that this injury occurred at a specific 
time and place even if Mr H did not observe it. I havent seen anything to suggest it is likely 
the stick injury itself happened gradually over time. 
I find Mr Hs vets evidence about the injury to be persuasive. She wrote to Casualty & 
General to say:
Your own policy wording states you do not cover dental or gum treatment that is not 
due to an accidental injury, which in my professional opinion I strongly believe a 
stick stuck in [the dogs] mouth/gums would be considered an accidental injury. We 
have no reason to believe the stick was forced into [the dogs] mouth intentionally. 
Your policy wording then goes on to define accidental injury as a sudden, unforeseen, unintended action or event which, again in my professional opinion, I 
strongly believe [the dog] having a stick stuck in his mouth would be classed as. Your 
definition also states an accidental injury will result in damage to one or more parts of 
the pets body and, as mentioned in the clinical history, damage/direct trauma was 
caused to [the dogs] mouth which the consulting vet has noted as erosion and 
inflammation of the gingiva on palatal aspect of 108 and 208.
The vet went on to explain that it was necessary to sedate the dog to remove the stick. 
I appreciate that Casualty & General has decided not to insure the risk of dental and oral 
treatment, except for accidental injury. But in my view the veterinary evidence is clear and 
persuasive that the damage to the dogs mouth was due to the accidental injury of a stick 
being wedged in his mouth. 
In asking for a review, Casualty & General has referred to its policy conditions which say that 
You must provide proper care and attention to Your pet at all times and take all reasonable 
precautions to prevent Accidental Injury or damage 
To rely on this condition to reject Mr Hs claim Casualty & General would need to show that 
Mr H did not use reasonable care at the time of the accidental injury. 
To show a lack of reasonable care I would expect Casualty & General to show that Mr H had 
acted in a way that amounted to recklessness. It has not provided any evidence to show 
that, and I dont consider, of itself, the dog having had a stick caught in its mouth is evidence 
of recklessness on the part of Mr H. As set out above, the vet says there is no evidence to 
suggest the stick was caught in the dogs mouth anything other than accidentally. 
The clinical history shows that the stick caused damage to the dogs mouth, which required 
treatment under sedation/general anaesthesia. I think it is both fair and reasonable for 
Casualty & General to pay Mr Hs claim for the treatment costs, subject to the policy excess 
and limit, together with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year as set out below. 
The policy exclusion 
I dont consider that Casualty & General was fairly entitled to place an exclusion for all 
claims with respect to the dogs ears backdated to 30 October 2019, being the policys start 
date. 
The relevant law is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). In line with CIDRA, I would usually consider it fair for an insurer to apply a 
retrospective exclusion if its policyholder didnt take reasonable care in answering its clear 
questions when they bought the policy and the insurer can show it would have added an 
exclusion had it been given the information. 
In this case I dont consider Casualty & General has shown that it asked Mr H a clear 
relevant question that would have enabled him to tell it about his dogs previous ear 
condition. Instead, it says during the policy application it asked Mr H to read and tick a box to 
confirm that hed read the assumptions and policy terms. 
I dont consider that an assumption is a clear question that would enable Mr H to tell 
Casualty & General about his dogs health. So I dont think Casualty & General has shown 
that Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. As a clear 
question was not asked it is not necessary for me to consider whether Casualty & General 
would have offered the policy on different terms. It follows that I dont consider Casualty & General was entitled to backdate the policy 
exclusion for claims in respect to the dogs ears to the policys start date. It must remove the 
ear related exclusion, with effect from the policys start date.
Compensation
I consider Casualty & General has caused Mr H material distress and inconvenience in its 
handling of the claim about the dogs stick injury and by applying the retrospective exclusion. 
I dont think the outcome is impacted by his decision to accept our Investigators findings 
about the ear condition claim, given she had reached her view on the complaint as a whole 
before issuing her recommendation for compensation. I think £200 compensation is fair and 
reasonable.  
Putting things right
Within 28 days of the date on which we send it Mr Hs acceptance of this final decision 
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Pay Mr Hs claim for the stick caught in his dogs mouth, subject to any applicable 
excess and policy limit; and 
Pay interest on the resulting claim payment at the simple rate of 8% per year from 
the date Mr H paid the vets fees until the date of settlement; and
Remove the retrospective policy exclusion that it applied for all claims in respect to 
the dogs ears with effect from the policys start date; and 
Pay Mr H £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If Casualty & General considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from the interest payment, it should let Mr H know how much its taken off. If requested, it 
should also provide him with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so that he can 
reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to take the steps set out above under Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman