DRN-2984453
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy a car he was financing through an agreement with Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) was repossessed without a 
court order.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr J, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr J acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of Mr Js finance agreement allowed BPF to repossess the car if payments were 
not maintained. But they werent allowed to do so without a court order if, as Mr J says is the 
case here, he had paid more than a third of what was owed under the agreement.
The car was seized by police and BPFs system notes show that they held it for Mr J until 
such point as he could remedy the cause of the seizure. Ive not seen that Mr J did that, so 
the car was retained. In the meantime, system notes show that BPF were considering court 
action to repossess the car because Mr J was in arrears. The notes show that instead the 
voluntary surrender process was explained to him and that he and his representative agreed 
to surrender the car on 2 August 2019.
In those circumstances BPF didnt need a court order. They could sell the car at auction and 
reduce the balance on the account accordingly.
Mr J says he didnt sign the voluntary surrender forms and that all the conversations were 
with a family member and not him. Whilst I understand Mr J doesnt remember signing the 
voluntary surrender forms I can see that they are signed, and I can also see system notes 
suggest he and his family member were discussing voluntary surrender with BPF around 
that time. Those notes also explain that Mr J had given a family member authority to speak 
to them on his behalf. I think its likely Mr J consented to the voluntarily surrender his car and 
that he was made aware of the implications.
So, I dont think BPF did anything wrong when they sold the car as Im persuaded Mr J 
voluntarily surrendered the vehicle to them.
When the car was sold, and Mr J didnt make payments towards the balance of his account 
BPF transferred the collection of the debt to a debt collection agency. That meant that the 
balance of Mr Js account with them was zeroed but the debt was transferred to the debt 
collection agency. That must have been confusing for Mr J as a letter from BPF around that 
time suggested he didnt owe them anything. Its clear the debt persisted but had been sold 
on to the debt collectors to manage. So, I dont think BPF need to cancel the debt. But I do 
think they should compensate Mr J for the distress and inconvenience caused by that letter. 
BPF offered Mr J £50 in compensation and I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand Mr J is upset about the sales price BPF obtained for the car. When a vehicle is 
voluntarily surrendered the business can sell it and offset the price obtained against the 
balance of the account. But its for the business to make an operational decision about how 
the car is sold and how much they will accept for it. I dont therefore think BPF were 
unreasonable in that respect and overall, Im not asking them to take any further action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman