DRN-3146586
The complaint
Mr B complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined his claim against his travel 
insurance policy following curtailment of his trip. Reference to URV includes its agents. 
Mr Bs son, who Ill refer to as Mr B1, is helping Mr B to bring his complaint. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, In October 2019, Mr B booked flights for a trip with intended 
departure and return dates of 5 February 2020 and 6 May 2020 respectively. In     
January 2020, Mr B purchased a single trip, explorer platinum travel insurance policy, 
master policy number RTAEX40039. The period of cover was 5 February 2020 to            
6 May 2020. Mr B declared three medical conditions.
On 23 March 2020, whilst Mr B was on his trip, the Foreign Commonwealth and 
Development Office (FCDO, formerly the FCO) advised all UK tourists to return home. 
That advice remained in place for the remainder of Mr Bs planned trip. On                     
24 March 2020, the government of the country Mr B was in announced a lockdown in 
response to the covid-19 pandemic.
Mr B says that he followed the FCDO advice to return home and booked the earliest 
return flight available. He curtailed his trip and returned home on 30 April 2020. Mr B1 
says that if he hadnt arranged for Mr B to return home, URV would have received a 
claim as a result of Mr Bs ill-health whilst on the trip. 
Mr B made a claim against his policy for the unrecovered part of his unused original 
return flight, the cost of the repatriation flight and Mr B1s phone costs. URV declined the 
claim. It said that what happened here isnt covered by the policy. URV also said that   
Mr B had a 14 day cooling-off period in which to cancel the policy if its not suitable. Mr B 
pursued his complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that whilst what 
happened here wasnt one of the insured events under the policy, in the particular 
circumstances, it was fair and reasonable for URV to deal with the claim under the 
curtailment section of the policy. 
The investigator said that was because an exclusion in the policy meant that if Mr B had 
remained abroad, he would have been doing so against FCDO advice and would have 
had no cover under the policy. He said that Mr B wasnt covered if he followed FCDO 
advice and curtailed his trip but also wasnt covered if he remained abroad. The 
investigator didnt think that the exclusion had been brought to Mr Bs attention and that 
the combined effect of the policy wasnt clear to him. The investigator didnt think that   
Mr B would have bought the policy if hed realised that there would be no cover if FCDO 
advice changed. 
URV didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman consider the 
complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly. 
ICOBS also says that insurers should give consumers appropriate information about a 
policy in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This should include an 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), giving a consumer a summary of certain 
things  including excluded risks. 
The IPID
At the top of the IPID it says:
The following summary does not contain the full terms and conditions of the contract 
which can be found in your policy documentation. []
Under the heading, What is insured? it says:
The policy covers up to the following
[]
If you need to come home early £5,000 
On page 1 of the IPID, under the heading, Are there any restrictions on cover? it says:
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your 
destination.
The Policy Terms and Conditions
Page 12 of the policy terms and conditions says:
What is not covered  applicable to all sections of the policy
We will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly from:
[]
14. Travelling against FCO advice
Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) or regulatory authority in a country to/from which you are 
travelling has advised against all, or all but essential travel.
[]
Section B of the policy, on page 17, sets out the cover available for curtailment. Curtailment 
cover applies if the insured has to return home early for one of a specified number of 
reasons, none of which apply here. 
The terms say that the policy doesnt cover anything mentioned in What is not covered, the 
relevant part of which Ive set out above. Has Mr Bs claim been declined unfairly?
I think its fair and reasonable for URV to treat Mr Bs claim as covered under the curtailment 
section of the policy because:  
Mr B curtailed his trip because the FCDO advised all UK tourists to return home. 
Cutting a trip short due to government advice isnt one of the listed, insured events 
for which curtailment cover is provided. However, taking into account the relevant 
law and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill explain. 
The exclusion that Ive set out above means that if Mr B had remained abroad after 
23 March 2020, he would have done so against FCDO advice. So, the evidence Ive 
been provided with suggests it is most likely that he wouldnt have been covered by 
the policy terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, 
changes in FCDO guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was 
made sufficiently clear to Mr B. 
Mr B  would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And I dont think that this 
information was brought to his attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I 
dont think that the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear. 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr B and 
URV. I think its unlikely that Mr B would have purchased the policy if he had 
realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance changed 
whilst he was abroad.
For these reasons, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Putting things right
Im directing URV to treat the claim as covered under the curtailment section of the policy. 
URV should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Bs complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG and direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman