DRN-3762923
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) has settled a
claim made under their commercial property insurance policy under the malicious damage
by tenants cover, rather than the fire cover.
What happened
S owns a property which is split into several flats, let out to tenants. In March 2021 there was
a fire in a communal part of the property. S made a claim to Fairmead, its commercial
property insurance provider.
During the early stages of the claim, S said that one of the tenants who resided in the
property was initially thought to be responsible for the fire and was arrested. But S also said
they were later released without charge.
Fairmead said the fire peril under S insurance policy doesnt cover a fire started deliberately
by a tenant. But they said malicious damage by tenants was a separate peril under the
policy, so they considered the claim against that.
Under the malicious damage by tenants peril, there is a policy limit of £7,500. Fairmead
offered that amount toward the fire damage, along with some additional amounts for loss of
rent and alternative accommodation for the tenants.
S was unhappy with the claim being considered under malicious damage by tenants, due to
the low policy limit. S thinks the claim should be considered under the fire peril, which has a
higher limit. So, S brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said that it was
fair and reasonable for Fairmead to consider the claim under malicious damage by tenants,
as it was likely the tenant was responsible for the fire.
S didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my provisional findings before I reached my final 
decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally reached a different outcome to our investigator. 
So, Im issuing a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment 
on my findings before I reach my final decision.
Fairmead has accepted a claim under S policy. But the dispute centres around 
whether it should be considered under the fire peril with a policy sum insured of 
£447,487.15, or the malicious damage by tenants cover with a limit of £7,500.
S made a claim shortly after the fire had happened (the fire was in the early hours of 
the morning). When speaking to Fairmead shortly after to find out an update on the 
next steps, S mentioned that a tenant had been arrested, but they also said they 
thought the tenant had been released.
Fairmead has said the fire peril under S policy doesnt cover deliberate damage by 
people who are lawfully in the property i.e. the tenant. So instead Fairmead has 
considered the claim under malicious damage by tenants cover, which has a policy 
limit of £7,500. Fairmead paid this full policy limit towards the fire damage.
However, the tenant was released without charge  and S told Fairmead this. S also
provided Fairmead with a statement from the Police who confirmed:
As discussed this email is confirmation that the investigation involving 
(NAME), who was arrested for Criminal Damage-Arson on (DATE) at 
(ADDRESS) was interviewed and bailed, while the investigation was reviewed 
by the Crown Prosecution Service. On (DATE) we received a decision from 
the CPS, stating that they would not be prosecuting (NAME) due to lack of 
evidence linking him to the arson.
For me to conclude Fairmead has acted reasonably by considering the claim under 
the malicious damage by tenants section of the policy (and the limit for that cover), Id 
first need to be satisfied the evidence demonstrated the tenant was responsible for 
causing the fire. Allegedly (although there has been no evidence submitted) the 
tenant also suffered with poor mental health. So, Id also need to consider if the 
tenant had acted maliciously when starting the fire.
However, the tenant originally suspected was released without charge. They werent
prosecuted or charged on the basis there was a lack of evidence linking him to the 
arson.
So, with this in mind, on balance, Im not persuaded the evidence supports the tenant 
most likely started the fire. Instead, the fire could have been started by anyone, 
including those who werent lawfully in the property or a tenant. Consequently, I dont 
think it is fair for Fairmead to consider the claim under malicious damage by tenants 
section of S policy, or to apply that policy limit when settling the claim.Therefore, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, Im minded to conclude it would be fair and reasonable for Fairmead to 
reconsider the claim under the fire peril, with the associated policy limits attached to 
that, rather than restricting the claim to the £7,500 malicious damage by tenants 
cover and limit.
S has outlined a list of costs it says should be paid including repair costs, loss of rent,
alternative accommodation, council tax and utility bills. However, here Im not 
deciding the specific quantum of the claim. Instead, at this point, Im minded to say 
that Fairmead need to reconsider the claim under the fire peril with that 
corresponding limit.
If my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and S accepts it, S 
will then need to liaise with Fairmead about the appropriate total settlement and 
provide any evidence Fairmead needs in support of that. If S remains unhappy with 
the settlement ultimately offered by Fairmead, it may be able to bring a new 
complaint to this service about the settlement amount.
S has also said that one if its directors, and their health, has been personally affected 
by Fairmeads decision to deal with the claim with the lower limit. However, I cant 
award compensation to them personally for this. This is because the complaint is 
being brought by S, a limited company, and a company cant be distressed or suffer 
poor health.
S, as a company, can be inconvenienced though. But some of the inconvenience to 
S here, and costs claimed for, relate to loss of rent, alternative accommodation and it 
needing to pay for this, and the repairs required etc. But those are separate costs 
that S would need to make a claim for under its insurance policy (some of these 
costs have already been partly covered too), when Fairmead reconsiders the claim.
However, I do recognise that having the claim declined would have been 
inconvenient for S as a company. S needed to move things forward after Fairmead, 
in my view, incorrectly restricted the claim to the £7,500 limit. This includes releasing 
tenants from their contracts, arranging and paying for the alternative accommodation, 
and arranging for quotes and repairs of the fire damage  that potentially should have 
been covered under the fire peril by Fairmead if they hadnt  incorrectly in my view - 
applied the lower limit.
So, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, 
Im also minded to direct Fairmead to compensate S £350 for the inconvenience 
caused.
Therefore, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct Fairmead to reconsider the 
claim under the fire peril, and in line with the remaining policy terms. And, to pay £350 
compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
S responded to my provisional decision. It clarified that I had said the £7,500 limit had been 
paid by Fairmead, whereas payment hadnt actually been made.Fairmead responded to say that they still believe the initial claim decision was correct. 
However, as they do not have any other evidence to support that position, beyond what I 
considered when reaching my provisional decision, they agreed to accept the claim under 
the fire peril. They added that the claim will be reassessed to understand the claims costs 
and current position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional conclusions and decision I reached, and the 
responses to it. Having done so, and as neither party has provided anything which leads me 
to reach a different conclusion, my final decision remains the same, and for the same 
reasons.
I also recognise S has said the malicious damage limit hasnt yet been paid because S didnt 
agree with the claim being considered under that peril. But that doesnt change things here 
in any event, as Fairmead now need to reconsider the claim under the fire peril with the 
higher limit, and in line with the remaining terms.
Neither party has provided anything which changes my view on the appropriate amount of 
compensation either, so that also remains the same as my provisional decision and for the 
same reasons.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold the complaint and direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Reconsider the claim under the fire peril, and in line with the remaining policy terms
Pay S £350 compensation for the inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman