DRN-4290469
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) handled his dispute.
What happened
The facts of this case are well known to the parties  so I will simply summarise them briefly.
Mr H paid for a holiday using his BOS debit card. However, he was not happy with the 
holiday and wants a refund. In summary, he says he did not enjoy the holiday as there were 
loud parties going on in the hotel. He says he was not told this was the sort of hotel he was 
booking.
BOS raised a chargeback claim for Mr H and issued a temporary credit. But the claim was 
defended by the merchant and BOS took back the money and discontinued the dispute.
Mr H is unhappy that BOS told him he could keep the money then took it back. BOS 
apologised for incorrect information and paid Mr H £50 compensation. But it confirmed that it 
couldnt refund Mr H under the chargeback scheme.
Mr H complained to this service and the investigator didnt uphold his complaint. So he has 
asked for an ombudsman to look at things again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the information submitted by the parties  however, I wont comment on it 
all, only what I think key. This reflects my role resolving disputes informally.
I am very sorry to hear that Mr H was disappointed in his holiday. However, in deciding what 
is fair it is important to note that BOS is not the supplier of holidays here. So I am only 
considering its role as a provider of financial services. In that respect, as Mr H paid for the 
holiday on a debit card the chargeback dispute process is particularly relevant here.
Chargeback is not a legal right but a dispute resolution process set out in rules created by 
the card schemes. In this case it appears the relevant card scheme is Visa  however I dont 
consider the outcome of this complaint would be different under the other schemes in any 
event.
It will often be good practice to attempt a chargeback and I can see that BOS did raise one 
on behalf of Mr H to try and recover his money. This seems like a fair initial step to take.
I note that the merchant defended the chargeback and then BOS decided not to take the 
dispute process any further. I have thought about whether this was fair in the circumstances.
It appears that the relevant reason code here used to raise the dispute was that relating to 
services which are not as described. This seems to be an appropriate code to use here. 
However, I note that the supplier raised a defence to the claim indicating that Mr H had 
received the service for the entire duration of his holiday and no refund was due.
It is arguable that BOS did not act unreasonably in deciding not to take the dispute further 
here as it appeared there was no reasonable prospect of success. I say this because 
The supplier denied any wrongdoing;
Mr Hs claim centres on his perception of the hotel as being a party hotel  however, 
the chargeback scheme is focused on whether the service was not as described;
Mr Hs claim focuses on a claim for loss of enjoyment  and mentions law relating to 
package travel bookings  which chargeback doesnt take into account; and
I dont think there was persuasive evidence presented at the time that Mr Hs holiday 
was not as described in accordance with the relevant chargeback scheme rules 
(such as advertisements and other documentary evidence taken at the time of stay). 
So I dont think BOS has acted unfairly in not continuing the dispute. But even if I think it 
should have, I consider it unlikely to have succeeded in any event (either on re-presentment 
or at arbitration) for similar reasons. 
I note that during the dispute Mr H was given incorrect information which led him to believe 
he was able to keep the temporary credit he got during the dispute process. BOS accepts 
this mistake. I think this deserves compensation as it has clearly caused Mr H distress and 
disappointment. But I dont think it means that BOS should pay him the refund it took back 
for the reasons given above in respect of the decisions and prospects around the 
chargeback dispute process, and because ultimately there isnt persuasive evidence this 
mistake has caused Mr H a financial loss. 
In considering what is a fair award for distress I have taken into account the approach as set 
out on our website. When deciding what is a fair I also note BOS apologised to Mr H about 
the mistake and it seemed sincere. I think the £50 which BOS paid Mr H is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances for this mistake which caused understandable short term 
distress.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman