DRN-3378543
The complaint
Mr G complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc made mistakes when completing a balance 
transfer to his credit card. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mr G used Sainsburys Banks online system to process a balance transfer 
to his credit card. But Mr M says the calculator he used on Sainsburys Banks website didnt 
include the fees hed incur. Once the balance transfer fees were applied, Mr M exceeded his 
credit limit. 
Sainsburys Bank took the step of removing Mr Gs promotional interest rate. As a result, 
interest and charges began to accrue against the outstanding balance. 
Mr G complained to Sainsburys Bank and it apologised for what had happened. Sainsburys 
Bank refunded the interest and charges Mr G incurred and reinstated the promotional 
balance. Sainsburys Bank also paid Mr G £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Gs complaint and upheld it. They said 
Sainsburys Bank had taken reasonable steps to correct its mistake but thought it should 
increase the award for the trouble and upset caused from £75 to £175. Sainsburys Bank 
asked to appeal, so Mr Gs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys Bank upheld Mr Gs complaint and took steps to refund interest and charges 
and reinstate the promotional rate. That puts Mr Gs account back into the correct position  
as if no error had occurred. 
Sainsburys Bank offered Mr G £75 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
actions. But our investigator thought a payment of £175 more fairly reflected how the errors 
had impacted Mr G. I agree with the investigators view that £75 doesnt fairly recognise how 
the issues affected Mr G. 
Mr G says he spent a lot of time on the phone trying to speak with Sainsburys Bank. I can 
see from its contact notes that Sainsburys Bank accepted there were long wait times when 
he tried to call. And I dont doubt Mr Gs calls were reasonably long whilst Sainsburys Bank 
tried to work out whatd happened. Mr G has told us hes self employed and I accept the time 
taken dealing with the issues raised was inconvenient for him. 
I also think its fair to say the issues caused Mr G a reasonable level of distress. Its clear 
Mr G was concerned about losing his promotional interest rate and the future costs hed 
incur as a result. Mr Gs also told us how concerned he was that an error by Sainsburys 
Bank couldve impacted his credit file. I note Sainsburys Banks final response makes no 
mention of whether Mr Gs credit file had been impacted or not. The case handler has told us 
that, during a call, Mr G was told there was no impact. But the call hasnt been provided. And 
its clear Mr G was still very concerned about the impact of the way his balance transfer was 
handled on his credit file. 
The investigator also asked Sainsburys Bank to check Mr Gs credit file wasnt affected by 
the issues raised and to confirm this in writing. I think thats fair. In addition, the investigator 
asked Sainsburys Bank to confirm Mr Gs promotional rates in writing. Sainsburys Bank has 
confirmed the promotional rates are all noted on Mr Gs monthly statements and gave the 
investigator a list to forward to Mr G. So Im not telling Sainsburys Bank to take further 
action in respect of setting out the promotional rates on Mr Gs credit card. Going forward, 
Mr G can review monthly statements for that information. 
In my view the figure of £175 more fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr G and the impact of the issues raised. As a result, Im upholding Mr Gs 
complaint and directing Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay him a total of £175. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay settle 
as follows: 
- Pay Mr G a total of £175 for the distress and inconvenience caused (less any 
compensation already paid)
- Confirm in writing to Mr G that his credit file hasnt been impacted by the issues 
raised
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman