DRN-4095356
The complaint
Mr P complains Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded transactions that theyve disputed.
What happened
Mr P has an account with Lloyds Bank which he says contained part of his life savings.
Mr P called Lloyds Bank late one evening to say that there had been unauthorised 
transactions on his account. He says that further transactions went out after he called.
Lloyds Bank investigated and said that the transactions had been authenticated using Mr Ps 
mobile phone and his Mobile Banking App. In the circumstances, Lloyds Bank held Mr P 
liable for the transactions.
Mr P was unhappy with Lloyds Bank, saying that it hadnt looked after his money and that 
this had caused him and his wife a lot of distress. He said it was clear from the names of the 
payees and the amounts  taken one after another  that the transactions were fraudulent.
Lloyds Bank looked into Mr Ps complaint and having done so said that its decision to hold 
him liable was the correct one. So, he complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld 
because Lloyds Bank had shown that the transactions had more likely than not being 
authorised by Mr P. They said that evidence showed that the transactions had been 
authenticated using Mr Ps mobile phone  which would have had to be unlocked using his 
passcode  and authenticated using his biometrics. They also said that there was no 
obvious point of compromise. Mr P disagreed with our investigators recommendations. He 
said that he remembered losing his mobile phone a month and a half earlier, and that it had 
been returned by a couple who had found it. He said that his phone could have been 
compromised then. Our investigator couldnt see any evidence that this was the case. Mr P 
asked for his case to be looked at by an ombudsman. So, thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see seven payments totalling £1,285 left Mr Ps account on the evening in question. 
Six had left his account by the time he called Lloyds Bank  and I can see Lloyds Bank 
blocked the two payees in question. The seventh payment went out because a new payee 
was set up after the call. None of these payments would have appeared unusual to Lloyds 
Bank, so I wouldnt have expected Lloyds Bank to have flagged or questioned them.
Lloyds Bank has shown that these payments were made on the mobile phone Mr P normally 
uses to transact, that they were authenticated using his biometrics and Ive seen evidence 
that the IP address was from the location where Mr P was staying. Mr P told Lloyds Bank 
that his mobile phone had a passcode, that no-one else knew his passcode and that his 
mobile phone had been in his possession all the time. He also told Lloyds Bank that he didnt 
have anyone elses biometrics on his phone.
I dont think it was unfair of Lloyds Bank to hold Mr P liable in the circumstances, particularly 
given that Mr P had told Lloyds Bank that no-one else had access to his mobile phone or 
knew his passcode. In other words, there was no evidence Mr Ps details had been 
compromised. Mr P has since told our investigator that he lost his mobile phone a month and 
a half earlier, and that it had been returned by a couple who had found it. He believes that 
his phone could have been compromised then. I agree with our investigator, however, that 
there is no evidence that it was compromised.
In the circumstances, I agree with our investigator that Lloyds Bank didnt act unfairly when it 
decided to hold Mr P liable for these transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman