DRN-3439944
The complaint
Mr B complained about instalment loans he took out with Western Circle Ltd (trading as 
Cashfloat) and said they were unaffordable for him. 
What happened
Mr B took out two Cashfloat loans as follows:
loanstart date Loan statusmonthly 
instalmentsloan 
amounthighest 
instalment 
amount
13.7.21 PAID EARLY 3 £300 £159.20
2 29.7.2021 PAID 3 £400 £201.60
Mr B told us that the two consecutive loans provided by Cashfloat affected his financial 
situation.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr B and Cashfloat told us about the loans. 
Overall, our adjudicator didnt think that there was anything in the information Mr B provided, 
or the information Cashfloat shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what Mr B had told Cashfloat about his financial situation. Our 
adjudicator thought that Mr Bs borrowing record with Cashfloat wouldnt have given 
Cashfloat any reason to think that he had money problems and based on what it saw, the 
lending decisions seemed fair. So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.  
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. He mainly said that 
repaying the first loan early didnt mean he could afford to take the second loan and it was 
irresponsible for Cashfloat to have provided loan 2 less than one month after loan 1. He 
didnt feel that our adjudicator had judged all the issues properly.
So Mr Bs complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Cashfloat provided Mr B with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loans irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr B could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
There isnt any set list of checks a lender has to do  it depends on the particular 
circumstances. 
The checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Bs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. Id like to reassure Mr B that Ive 
looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
Before lending to Mr B each time, Cashfloat asked him for information about his monthly 
income and his outgoings. 
Cashfloat says it agreed to Mr Bs applications after carrying out all the proper checks for 
these loans. It told us it relied on information Mr B provided about his monthly income (which 
it took steps to verify) and his expenditure. It also took into account statistical information 
based on what someone in Mr Bs particular situation was likely spend each month and it 
was satisfied that Mr Bs declared expenditure seemed reasonable in his particular 
circumstances.
Cashfloat was satisfied that the information it recorded for Mr B showed that hed be able to 
comfortably make the loan repayments. And in these circumstances, it was reasonable to 
lend. 
Cashfloat recorded Mr Bs income as £1,900-£2,000 per month and as that reflected what it 
saw confirmed by an independent salary verification check, I think that was reasonable. 
I've thought carefully about each loan in turn.
loan 1
As this was his first loan with Cashfloat, at this early stage, Mr B didn't have any track record 
with the lender that shouldve alerted Cashfloat to any underlying money problems. 
The information Cashfloat had gathered about Mr Bs finances suggested that he shouldve 
been able to afford to make the monthly repayments on this loan out of his disposable 
income according to the figures Mr B had declared. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr B provided or the other information 
Cashfloat had recorded, which meant that Cashfloat shouldve taken more steps to check 
the information Mr B had declared. Whilst Cashfloat was aware that Mr B was paying an 
amount towards other active credit he had taken out, I think its fair to say that borrowers 
applying for loans of this type often have other credit on their record and sometimes even an 
impaired credit history. 
Mr B hadnt told Cashfloat about anything that Id expect a lender to be unduly concerned 
about at this stage. It was early in the lending relationship and I think the checks were 
enough for Cashfloat to agree to lend. So I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about loan 1.
loan 2I've kept in mind that this was his second loan from Cashfloat in the same month. But I dont 
think this alone was enough to make Cashfloat think that Mr B was becoming increasingly 
indebted or struggling with being over stretched financially.
Loan  1 was repaid and Mr Bs circumstances were largely unchanged. I think its reasonable 
to say that loan 2 looked to be comfortably affordable for Mr B. 
He hadnt shown Cashfloat any signs that he had found it hard to pay for his borrowing when 
he had loan 1. 
The figures hed declared and the information Cashfloat had collected seem to support 
Cashfloats lending decision. 
And I think it was too soon for Cashfloat reasonably to be able to identify any particular 
pattern of lending that wouldve suggested Mr B was over-reliant on this type of borrowing or 
not using the money it lent for its intended purpose of providing short-term financial help.
I appreciate that Mr B feels that it was irresponsible of Cashfloat to lend to him  especially 
the second loan, so soon after the first. But at this stage of the lending relationship, and 
given these loan amounts and the relatively short loan terms, I dont think proportionate 
checks wouldve required Cashfloat to ask Mr B to prove what he was declaring or check 
other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his 
financial circumstances.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Cashfloat to lend without making any more detailed 
enquiries into his circumstances as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, 
to suggest Mr B wouldnt be able sustainably to repay the loan. And I think the information it 
had gathered supported the lending decisions it made.
Im sorry that Mr B had a problem with debt and that making the loan repayments hed 
signed up to was difficult for him. I accept that Mr Bs financial situation possibly wasnt fully 
reflected either in the information he provided or the other information Cashfloat obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some way. And, in this case, I dont think that Cashfloat did anything wrong 
in deciding to lend to Mr B. 
So I cant fairly say that Cashfloat shouldnt have provided this loan  and thats why Im not 
upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr B but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
If Mr B would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to get 
free debt advice on our website  or we can provide him with useful contact details if he 
gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Susan WebbOmbudsman