DRN-2149742
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy about the way Nationwide Building Society dealt with a claim made for a 
refund of direct debits under the Direct Debit Guarantee (DDG) scheme.
To settle the complaint Mr B wants Nationwide to apologise for any improper actions, for it to 
be held accountable by the industry regulator for any breach of rules and to pay 
compensation for distress.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to almost a thousand pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Briefly, what happened is this. In August 2012 Mr B took out a personal loan with 
Nationwide. The loan was regulated under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Mr B borrowed 
£10,000 over a period of 5 years at an APR of 6.30%. The loan was repayable in 60 monthly 
instalments of £193.61. Repayments were made by Mr B by direct debit from his FlexPlus 
account with Nationwide.
In August 2019 Mr B reclaimed his direct debits under the DDG. Nationwide processed the 
claim and re-credited Mr Bs account with £10,858.96. The same day, Mr B transferred 
£11,600 from his FlexPlus account to another account with a different bank (which I will call 
MB). Nationwide contacted MB, which put a temporary block on Mr Bs account, which was 
later lifted.
Nationwide investigated the DDG claim and, having done so, rejected it, being satisfied that 
Mr B had had a valid loan account and so there was no basis for a DDG indemnity. 
Nationwide wrote to Mr B to confirm that it intended to re-debit his FlexPlus account with the 
amount hed reclaimed under the DDG. After doing so, the FlexPlus account was overdrawn 
by £12,264.80.
Mr B complained but Nationwide was satisfied that it had acted correctly. The Society now 
requires Mr B to repay the funds claimed via the DDG and has passed the debt to debt 
recovery agents.
Mr B raised further questions with Nationwide about securitisation of loans, the role of third 
parties in relation to Nationwides business operations, whether Nationwide was acting as a 
fiduciary, or had securitised Mr Bs loan agreements and various other matters which he 
considered impacted on the validity of Nationwides claims against him  not just in relation 
to the debt for the personal loan, but other accounts Mr B had held with Nationwide. 
Nationwide answered these questions but Mr B remained dissatisfied with its response, so 
Mr B brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at 
the complaint but was satisfied Nationwide was entitled to reject the DDG claim, as Mr B had 
had the benefit of the loan and so should not have tried to reclaim the payments hed made 
towards it. 
However, the investigator thought Mr B had been caused some trouble and upset because 
Nationwide should have realised when Mr B first made his DDG claim that the direct debit 
was for a Nationwide loan, and so should not have initially allowed the claim to go ahead. As 
a result, this led to Mr Bs bank account with MB being frozen, and a large overdraft on his 
FlexPlus account, which would not have happened if Nationwide had rejected the claim at 
the outset. The investigator thought Nationwide should pay £200 compensation for this, 
which it agreed to do.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings. Hes made various points in response, 
disputing the existence of the loan, and has given reasons why he thinks the loan is null and 
void. Consequently, Mr B says he doesnt own Nationwide any money, and Nationwide 
hasnt proved this either.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive read everything thats been provided, but will concentrate only on what I 
consider to be the relevant issues in this complaint. 
The crux of the complaint is that Mr B argues that Nationwide has no grounds for reversing 
the DDG claim. This is because, according to Mr B, Nationwide cant prove it loaned any 
money to him. Mr B has also raised issues around securitisation of loans by Nationwide, the 
suggestion being that, if Nationwide has securitised his loan, its already been paid for it so 
Nationwide, in asking him to pay, has been paid twice. Consequently, Mr B doesnt 
recognise that there is any valid loan agreement between himself and Nationwide, 
particularly as he says Nationwide must provide the original signed agreement in order to 
prove a loan ever existed.
I have no power to determine whether or not a contract exists, or if it is valid or null and void; 
only a court can determine this. Likewise, the issue of whether or not Nationwide has 
securitised loan agreements (and I make no comment on if it has or not) isnt something that 
falls within my remit. Its part of Nationwides wider commercial activities, and so is outside 
the scope of the Financial Ombudsman Service. Furthermore, the Financial Ombudsman 
Service isnt a regulator, so although Ive noted Mr Bs request that Nationwide is held 
accountable by the regulator, thats not something that falls within our remit.
Having reviewed what happened in relation to Mr Bs DDG claim, Im satisfied that 
Nationwide was entitled to reverse the indemnity claim. The rules under the DDG scheme 
provide for this, and Im satisfied Nationwide gave Mr B notice of and reasons for the 
reversal. The available evidence is persuasive that Mr B had the benefit of the £10,000 he 
borrowed in 2012, and that Nationwide is entitled to be paid this sum, plus the interest provided for in the loan agreement. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Nationwide has 
done nothing wrong in reversing the DDG claim.
Nationwide has acknowledged that it should have realised as soon as Mr B made his DDG 
claim that this was for a Nationwide loan, and blocked the claim, rather than paying out the 
funds and later recalling them. Nationwides agreed to pay the investigators recommended 
compensation of £200 for any distress caused to Mr B as a result of this. I am not awarding 
anything more.
The personal loan debt  and another in relation to Mr Bs credit card  have been passed to 
recovery agents. If Mr B isnt able to come to a suitable payment arrangement, Im satisfied 
that Nationwide will be within its rights to pursue debt recovery action in court. Mr B will then 
have an opportunity to raise with the court all the arguments hes put forward here about why 
he thinks he doesnt owe Nationwide any money. I would suggest Mr B takes legal advice 
from a qualified solicitor before raising in court any of the points hes made in this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I simply leave it to Mr B to decide if he 
wants to accept the £200 compensation offered by Nationwide Building Society in full and 
final settlement of his complaint.  
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman