DRN-4191928
The complaint
Mr L complains that Volvo Car Financial Services UK Limited, who Ill call Volvo, told him he 
could make partial or full payment towards his finance agreement but later told him that 
wasnt possible.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Volvo have communicated repayment options clearly to Mr L, and I therefore 
think they need to compensate him for the inconvenience this has caused. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Volvo Car Financial Services UK Limited are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and the FCA set out the fundamental obligations for regulated firms in their handbook. 
Principle 7 says:
'A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading'.
The terms of Mr Ls contract with Volvo explained:
2.7 You may repay all amounts payable by you under this agreement early, either in part 
or in full, by giving notice in person or in writing
But when Mr L tried to pay £10,000 towards his finance agreement he was told he couldnt 
do that, and Volvo could only accept £6,368.30 as paying more would affect the guaranteed 
future value.
I cant see that was explained to Mr L when he signed up for the deal. Indeed, hes explained 
that the dealer, who under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) was acting as 
Volvos representative in the antecedent negotiations, told him he could make full or partial 
payments.
In those circumstances I think Volvo should take some action to put things right for Mr L as I 
think he would have made a larger payment towards his account if he was allowed to.
I can understand that Volvo dont want to take an overpayment they cant attribute to the 
account correctly without it affecting the final payment, so Im not asking them to do that. But 
I do think they should compensate Mr L for the distress and inconvenience he experienced 
by not being able to make the payment he was promised he could. In the circumstances Id 
agree with the investigator that £100 is sufficient.
Mr L has explained that there was a delay in the dealership providing him with his 
contractual information. I can only consider the dealerships actions in relation to their 
antecedent negotiations and Im not able to consider other matters. Mr L may wish to take 
that matter up separately with the dealership.
Mr L has also referred us to some delays in the handling of his complaint by Volvo. But 
overall, Im not persuaded to increase the compensation Im awarding on that basis as I think 
its sufficient in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Im asking the business to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volvo Car Financial 
Services UK Limited to pay Mr L £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
hes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman