Complaint
Miss M says St Andrew's Insurance Plc (St Andrews) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited (HIIL) sold this policy, but St Andrews has accepted 
responsibility for the sale. To make things easier Ive referred to St Andrews as the seller 
throughout my decision.
Background
Miss M bought the policy in January 2010 around the same time as taking out a personal 
loan. The PPI was sold to Miss M during a telephone call.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Miss M says she wasnt given an option of having the loan without the PPI. She says that 
had she been given a choice, she would have declined it. So, Ive thought about what shes 
said alongside the additional information Ive seen from St Andrews.
St Andrews says Miss M would have been given a choice about the PPI. Unfortunately, St 
Andrews hasnt been able to provide a recording of the call in which the sale took place  
which isnt surprising given the sale took place over nine years ago. So I dont know what 
was said in the discussion with Miss M. But St Andrews has referred me to a PPI sales 
script which it says would have been used in 2010 when Miss M was sold the PPI. Looking 
at the sales script, its clear Miss M would have been asked whether she wanted to take out 
the PPI and that St Andrews would have had to gain her consent before the PPI was added 
to her loan.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not Miss M would have 
understood the PPI was optional. And I dont think she would have agreed to the cover if she 
didnt want to take it out.
DRN-1046918St Andrews says the PPI was recommended to Miss M, and the policy seems to have been 
right for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She was eligible for 
cover and I cant see that she would have been affected by any of the things the policy didnt 
cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions.
Miss M has told us she would have received six months full pay from her employer if she 
was too unwell to work. She says this shows she didnt need the PPI.
Having thought about what Miss M has said about her sick pay, I dont think this means the 
PPI wasnt right for her. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in addition to any 
sick pay Miss M would have received from her employer and would have potentially paid out 
for longer than she would have received full pay. 
I also havent seen anything to make me think that the PPI was unaffordable for Miss M 
when she took out the policy. So, overall, I think the recommendation was suitable. And I 
think Miss M could have found the cover useful if she ever fell on hard times.
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Miss M, she also had to be given clear 
enough information about the PPI. I think its possible that she wasnt given all the 
information she should have been given. But, even if the information wasnt as clear as it 
should have been, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have stopped Miss M buying it.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman