DRN-3635788
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Unum Ltd settled his group income protection claim.
What happened
When Mr H became too unwell to work because of Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS), he claimed 
on his employers group income protection policy. Unum accepted that claim and provided 
continued benefit for two years, and at the end of that period it considered Mr Hs eligibility 
for a lump sum payment.
Two lump sums were available  8% for those unable to perform both their own and any 
gainful occupation, and 20% for those with a specific, listed, qualifying condition.
Unum was satisfied that Mr H was unable to perform his own and any gainful occupation 
because of his AS. So it said he was eligible for, and it paid, the 8% lump sum. Unum then 
explained Mr H hadnt been eligible for the 20% because AS wasnt one of the policys listed 
qualifying conditions. It said it had considered the closest condition to AS on that list, which 
was arthritis, but that the available medical evidence did not demonstrate that Mr H met the 
arthritis criteria. 
Mr H complained and said Unum had paid the 8% in the misbelief that hed return to work at 
some point. He explained the impact AS had on him and why he felt he was eligible for the 
20%. And he also provided a letter from his Consultant Rheumatologist in support of 
receiving that amount. Unum maintained its position, so Mr H referred his complaint here. 
Our investigator acknowledged that Mr Hs ongoing incapacity wasnt in dispute and AS 
wasnt listed as a qualifying condition. However, they thought the available medical evidence 
did demonstrate that Mr H satisfied the arthritis criteria, so they upheld the complaint on a 
fair and reasonable basis and recommended Unum paid the difference between the 8% and 
20% lump sum plus interest. 
Mr H agreed, but Unum did not. It said claims needed to be evidenced based and although 
AS was an inflammatory rheumatological condition, it was not a qualifying condition and it 
did not satisfy the policys definition of arthritis. 
As no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision setting out why I didnt think Unum had settled Mr Hs claim 
unreasonably. That decision now forms part of this final decision, and it read:
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Unum has a responsibility to consider claims both promptly and fairly and to not reject them 
unreasonably. 
Unum accepts that Mr H remains incapacitated, and having considered the medical 
evidence in this complaint I think that was a reasonable position for it to reach. I am aware 
that when Mr H raised concerns about Unums decision he thought itd decided on that 
amount in the belief hed return to work one day. But looking at the terms of the group policy, 
that isnt the basis of either lump sum:
Where Unum is satisfied the member, on the last day of the limited benefit cover maximum 
payment period:
(a) is incapacitated according to Definition C of incapacity (gainful occupation cover):
A lump sum payment is then paid of 8.0% times the lump sum insured earnings for each 
complete year of the period to terminal age. 
(b) is suffering from any one of the Qualifying Conditions set out in the table below:
A lump sum payment is then paid of 20.0% times the lump sum insured earnings for each 
complete year of the period to terminal age.
For reference, definition C is detailed as:
Definition C
A member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of their 
illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of:
(a) the insured occupation, and of
(b) any gainful occupation with any employer for which they are reasonably fitted by 
reason of training, education or experience and
the member is not performing any occupation, except as provided under paragraph 5.3 
(Proportionate benefit).
So Unum didnt pay the 8% lump sum because it was under the impression that Mr H would 
return to work. It paid it because it was satisfied he was unable to perform not just his own 
occupation, but any other gainful occupation too. And as I set out above, based on the 
available medical evidence in this complaint I think that was a reasonable position for it to 
have reached.
Turning to the 20% lump sum, the policy specifies that amount is only available to those with 
a specific qualifying condition. Mr Hs condition is not listed as one of those. So, I am 
satisfied that Unum acted in line with the policy terms when it determined that Mr H was not 
eligible for the 20% based on his AS. 
That being said, Unum did consider Mr Hs eligibility for the 20% lump sum based on 
arthritis, which was the closest condition on the list to AS. And I think it was fair of it to do so.
The criteria for arthritis is:
Arthritis
Active and progressive forms of inflammatory polyarthritis including widespread joint 
destruction with major clinical deformity of three or more joint areas.
My role here is not to make a medical finding in relation to Mr Hs condition(s). It is to decide 
whether Unum acted reasonably in concluding that the above criteria had not been wholly 
satisfied. 
Although I wont recite everything made available within the medical evidence, looking at the 
specific references to Mr Hs arthritis I note, for example, that in September 2008 Mr Hs GP 
records referred to peripheral arthritis. In February 2019 they noted that for eight years hed been taking steroids for arthritis, and in October 2019 they noted he was taking analgesics in 
relation to both arthritis and AS pain. 
Further, Mr Hs Consultant Rheumatologist set out by way of a supporting letter in November 
2000 that he had secondary osteoarthritis in his knees, feet and ankles which severely 
restricted his mobility. 
Having considered everything, I dont think it was unreasonable of Unum to conclude that 
the medical evidence did not demonstrate that Mr H had arthritis including widespread joint 
destruction with major clinical deformity of three or more joint areas. So, it follows that I dont 
think it was unreasonable of it not to pay the 20% lump sum. 
I do acknowledge that Mr H will likely be disappointed by my provisional findings and the 
above is in no way intended to detract from the impact of his AS. But I think it important to 
highlight that arthritis was not the condition that Mr H made his group income protection 
claim for. It was not the condition that Unum considered, and subsequently accepted, as 
being the cause of Mr Hs incapacitation. And it was not the condition that the claim was paid 
for.
For these reasons, in all the circumstances I find Unums decision to pay the 8% lump sum 
was reasonable. This being so I am not currently minded to interfere with its position.
Responses to the provisional decision
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. 
Unum confirmed it had nothing new to add and would await my final decision. 
Mr H responded and said he was mystified as to how a different outcome could have been 
reached given the same evidence was considered. He also said: 
His condition more than met the policys definition of arthritis and it was unreasonable 
of Unum to conclude the medical evidence did not demonstrate so. 
There appeared to be arguments surrounding the definition of his condition, but 
different websites identified AS as a type of arthritis, and his condition was more than 
just arthritis too. It affected his vision, bowel, heart, mental health, and his ability to 
complete routine daily tasks. It also impacted his immune system which had meant 
dealing with Covid-19 had been really difficult over the last few years.
The policy also listed cancer as a qualifying condition. But there were over 200 types 
of cancer, not all had the word cancer in them, and Unum would have considered 
claims for those conditions under the cancer qualifying condition. Although AS didnt 
have arthritis in its name, the severity of his condition and the damage it caused 
more than met the definition for the higher lump sum. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully empathise with the way Mr H says AS affects him. Both he and the supporting medical 
evidence speak of the wide ranging impact AS has on him and his family, and as I set out in 
my provisional decision my findings were in no way intended to detract from that. That 
remains true with this final decision too. Notwithstanding that however, my role here isnt to make a medical finding about Mr Hs 
condition. It is to determine whether Unum settled his claim fairly and reasonably, and for the 
reasons I have given and will now give I still think it did.  
Mr H says a number of sources identify AS as a type of arthritis. I thank Mr H for providing 
the links to the sources he relied on, but think it important to highlight Unum had already 
acknowledged AS was an inflammatory rheumatological condition. It reviewed Mr Hs claim 
with that in mind and considered his claim under the policys listed qualifying condition of 
arthritis. 
Unum never declined Mr Hs claim either. When his claim was first made through the group 
policy it accepted he was incapacitated because of AS and went on to make continued 
benefit payments for two years. And when that period was up, it further accepted that his AS 
meant he was unable to perform not just his own occupation, but any other gainful 
occupation too, and paid a lump sum in view of that. 
In order to qualify for the higher lump sum however, Mr H would need to be suffering from an 
active and progressive form of inflammatory polyarthritis with widespread joint destruction 
with major clinical deformity of three or more joint areas.  
There is much evidence of Mr Hs ill health in this complaint  for example theres reference 
to many of his joints being affected by his condition, his pain being widespread, and his 
mobility being restricted. But, like the investigator before me also found, there is no 
reference to Mr H suffering from widespread joint destruction, so Im still not persuaded that 
the position Unum reached in relation to this was unreasonable. 
For the reasons given both here and within my provisional decision I still find that Unums 
decision to pay the 8% lump sum was reasonable. I appreciate Mr H will likely be further 
disappointed by this, but I will not be interfering with Unums position on this occasion. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman