DRN-3906615
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited treated her unfairly in response to 
a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In February 2022, Mrs L was unfortunately involved in a motor accident and made a claim on 
her policy. 
After accepting the claim, Admiral declared Mrs Ls car a total loss. They also cancelled her 
policy and offered her a cash settlement which they said fairly reflected the market value of 
her car. Mrs L was unhappy with the initial valuation, so they increased it twice. Their final 
valuation offer was £3,100.
Mrs L said Admirals valuation wasnt fair and by declaring the car a total loss and 
immediately cancelling the policy, she was prevented from arranging her own physical 
inspection of the car. She also complained about the customer service she received 
throughout the claim. 
In the final response, Admiral explained they'd calculated a fair market value by relying on 
the highest value suggested by the two motor trade guides they'd checked. They declared 
the car a total loss as they were entitled to rely on the expertise of their engineer, and they 
cancelled the policy accordingly. They didnt agree with all of Mrs Ls complaint points in 
terms of the customer service they provided. However, they did acknowledge some failings 
and paid her £175 to reflect the distress and inconvenience their actions caused her. This 
amount included £25 compensation for the delay in providing a final response. 
An investigator at this service then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said 
Admiral had acted fairly by declaring the car a total loss as they'd provided an engineers 
report which showed the cost of the repairs exceeded the value of the car. The 
compensation Admiral had paid Mrs L for the customer service issues was fair and based on 
the evidence hed considered, there were no grounds for asking Admiral to increase their 
valuation. As while Admiral had only relied on two motor trade guides, he checked two 
additional guides and £3,100 was the highest value suggested by all of them.
Mrs L then requested a final decision. She gave a variety of reasons for this including 
repeating her belief the valuation amount was unfair, and Admiral had stopped her getting 
her own independent inspection by cancelling the policy.
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure Admiral and Mrs L that although I have only summarised the 
background and arguments in the section above, I have read and considered everything 
provided about this complaint in its entirety. This includes all the points Mrs L raised during a 
call with the investigator on 11 January 2023. I have carefully reviewed each of these, but I 
wont address all of them in my decision. Ill focus on the points I think are central to the 
outcome of the complaint.
The starting position in complaints of this nature is the contract between Mrs L and Admiral  
the policy terms and conditions. In relation to settling a claim, page 20 of the policy wording 
explains: We are entitled to: 
conduct the investigation, defence and settlement of any claim on your behalf 
 inspect your vehicle at any reasonable time we ask 
stop cover immediately and cancel your policy if your vehicle is deemed a total loss 
or is stolen and unrecovered. Once the claim is settled your vehicle will become our 
property.
So, Im satisfied Admiral were entitled to settle Mrs Ls claim in the way they saw fit, provided 
they did so fairly.
Mrs L has questioned Admirals decision to declare her car a total loss and feels upset this 
was based on a desktop assessment rather than a physical inspection. Assessments of this 
nature arent unusual across the motor insurance industry as it provides an efficient way for 
insurers to progress a claim. In any event, Ive considered the photographs this assessment 
was based on and the engineers comments. Having done so, Im satisfied Admiral acted 
fairly by declaring the car a total loss, and concluding it was uneconomical to carry out the 
repairs. Mrs L has said other engineers may have thought differently, but I see no grounds 
for concluding Admiral acted unfairly by relying on the expertise of their own engineer.
The above policy wording explains, Admiral is entitled to cancel a policy immediately after  
declaring a car a total loss. So, while I appreciate Mrs L feels they did this too quickly, I dont 
agree they did anything wrong. I also note that Admiral have delayed the sale of the salvage 
at Mrs Ls request and she is currently storing the car on her driveway, pending the outcome 
of this complaint. As such, I dont agree she has been prevented from arranging her own 
independent inspection as she could have arranged for an inspection to take place at her 
property. 
The policy defines market value as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage 
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of 
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on 
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Assessing the value of a used car isnt an exact science. However, like most insurers our 
service often finds the motor trade guides persuasive. This is because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and they show likely selling prices at the month of loss. The 
guides also allow for the specifications of most cars to be taking into consideration including 
any extras. This is particularly helpful, as factors such as the age and mileage of a car can 
have a big impact on its value. If a guide price is significantly higher or lower than the others, 
we may think its reasonable to ignore it. This depends on the circumstances and the value 
of the car. We also think motor trade guides are generally more reliable than car adverts as 
asking prices in adverts allow room for downward negotiation.Admiral reached their final valuation by referring to two motor trade guides. As Admiral is 
aware, there are several motor trade guides insurers can use to reach a fair market value 
and we would generally expect them to consult more than two before reaching a decision. Its 
therefore unclear why Admiral didnt do so here. I can also understand why receiving three 
different valuations from Admiral within a few days of each other caused Mrs L to question 
Admirals process. However, after checking four guides including the two used by Admiral, 
Im satisfied Mrs L has been offered a fair market value for her car and Ill explain why.
The four motor trade guides valued Mrs Ls car as follows: £2,690, £2,878, £2,894, and 
£3,100. I can confirm all these values were based on the correct specification for Mrs Ls car 
and the correct month of loss. Wed usually expect an insurer to provide a value that falls 
within the range of values suggested by the guides. There is no requirement for them to offer 
the highest amount, however, Admiral have done this here by offering £3,100. Mrs L has 
seen car adverts that suggest a higher price, but as mentioned above, we tend to find the 
motor trade guides to be more accurate than adverts. And in this specific case, I see no 
reason for directing Admiral to disregard the highest value suggested by the guides in favour 
of adverts.
Mrs L has said shes been deprived of a working car since February 2022. However, during 
the same month, Admiral offered to settle her claim based on the above market value and 
explained that accepting their payment wouldnt prejudice her position. So, I would 
reasonably have expected her to have mitigated her loss, and accepted Admirals settlement 
offer on an interim basis. In which case, it would have been appropriate for her to have 
allowed Admirals agent to collect her car unless she purchased the salvage. If Mrs L would 
now like to settle her claim based on the above market value, she will need to contact 
Admiral directly to arrange this.
Admiral have paid Mrs L £175 compensation in total to reflect the customer service issues 
they detailed in their final response. Having carefully reviewed all of Mrs Ls concerns and 
the impact of Admirals actions, Im satisfied this amount is a fair reflection of the avoidable 
distress and inconvenience Admiral caused her, so I see no grounds for making a further 
award. However, if the payment cheque has expired Admiral should reissue it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman