DRN-2978142
The complaint
Mr K complains about Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) as he 
says he was prevented from trading his oversees holdings when using their platform.  
What happened
Mr K has an execution only account with HLAM. Mr K wanted to trade one of his holdings in 
January 2021 but says he was prevented from doing so because HLAMs platform was 
unable to provide live quotes. He said his experience trading with other firms at the time 
showed they were not having the same problems. He contacted HLAM to complain. He was 
concerned he had missed out on the gains from his overseas holdings. 
HLAM responded to the complaint in February 2021. They said there was unprecedented 
volumes dealing in a small number of overseas securities driven by some investors on social 
media. They went on to say fluctuations in the market meant live quotes werent available 
from market makers. They said Mr K could have placed a fill or kill order with a limit or 
contacted the dealing desk.
 
Mr K remained unhappy and asked our service to investigate. The Investigator issued a view 
explaining why she felt HLAM hadnt prevented Mr K from trading. 
Mr K didnt agree with the view and explained the reasons for this. For example, he said he 
had attempted to make a trade using HLs dealing desk and it wasnt possible. Also, the 
platform outage was over a long period. He doesnt agree with the explanation about the 
outage because he was trying to sell the shares and not purchase them. He understands the 
unusual market activity led to blocks on purchasing these overseas securities. And when he 
was eventually able to sell the shares, it was for a substantially reduced price. 
Therefore, the complaint has passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HLAM have accepted their online platform wasnt able to process overseas trades for a short 
period (of no more than an hour) on 27 January 2021. HLAM explained in their terms and 
conditions that they cant guarantee access to all their services at all times and they could be 
interrupted in certain circumstances. However, Id still expect HLAM to provide a reasonable 
explanation about the interruption here. 
In their final response to the complaint I can see they outlined the unprecedented market 
activity with some overseas securities. It had been driven by investors on social media and 
was widely reported at the time. Whilst I can appreciate the frustration caused, I accept that 
it wont always be possible to ensure all services work smoothly in the face of unpredictable 
and unprecedented volumes. Nevertheless, HLAM have confirmed their website was still 
available.
Also, HLAM have said Mr K could have used their dealing desk to call them and place trades 
or request information. Mr K said he did try and use the dealing desk, but it wasnt available. 
HLAM have said there were longer queues than usual as a result of the circumstances and 
the high volumes this caused. But theyve said it was available and there were no errors with 
the service. Ive not seen sufficient evidence which would persuade me that this wasnt the 
case and longer queues wouldnt be unusual in the circumstances. 
Mr K has said when he tried to place a trade, he received a message which said no live 
prices were available. Ive also seen the transaction history which shows me he was able to 
place trades. This tells me he was using the platform. Therefore, Im content the inability to 
process overseas trades over the platform was likely to only be for a short period and there 
were other means by which Mr K could have traded.
Mr K has said the outage was for a long period of time because a live quote was unavailable 
for some time. He experienced this problem throughout the day he was trying to trade and 
for some time after. However, Im content the availability of a live quote was not linked to an 
error in HLAMs systems. 
HLAM rely on information provided by market makers when giving a live quote. So, just 
because a live quote wasnt available, it doesnt mean HLAMs platform wasnt working. 
HLAM didnt receive a live quote to display from the market makers and this isnt uncommon 
in periods of market volatility. This was the case with certain overseas securities at the time. 
Ive seen a screenshot from the system which shows what Mr K is likely to have seen when 
live quotes werent available. I can see it provided the option of placing a fill or kill order to be 
dealt with manually. Therefore, there was still an option to place a trade. This was alongside 
the option of calling through to HLAMs dealing desk, although there were high volumes at 
the time. 
HLAM dont have the functionality to provide limit orders on US stocks. However, this is not 
the same as a fill or kill order which is available when there is no live quote. Ive seen a 
screenshot from the order screen, and I can see it allows users to enter a limit in dollars to 
mitigate the risk. So, Im content its likely to have been possible for Mr K to place an order on 
the platform without a live quote. 
Mr K has said a fill or kill order is cancelled where it is not filled immediately. This is also 
reflected in HLAMs terms and conditions. HLAM have said if a limit is set, they deal or kill the 
order as soon as practical after the limit is reached. They said if it cant be filled automatically 
then its placed into a queue to be dealt with manually. If the dealer cannot place the order, 
then it would be killed. 
I can see Mr K did try and place a fill or kill order which was killed on 28 January 2021 
because the quote received was outside of the limit price. And I do understand Mr Ks 
comments about the order type. However, there was no live quote available, so this was an 
alternative option. Also, it wont always be possible to execute a fill or kill order as it depends 
on whether the limit price is reached when put to the market makers. It is the market makers 
who decide whether theyre willing to fulfil an order.   
Mr K has said he did not have the same experience with other platforms he was using at the 
time. However, in light of the evidence Ive seen, this isnt sufficient for me to say HLAMs 
service was unreasonable. And as previously noted, the activity with these overseas 
securities was widely reported at the time.
 
Overall, Im not persuaded HLAM have done anything wrong here. I know my decision will 
be disappointing for Mr K who didnt receive the price for his stocks which he had hoped. However, HLAM rely on market makers to provide live quotes. Therefore, I cant hold HLAM 
responsible for them not being available at this time. Im satisfied they offered an alternative 
option in respect of a fill or kill order with a limit. Also, he could have used the dealing desk, 
although I do appreciate it was busy. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman