DRN-1955267
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that he was overcharged for a boiler repair, and John Lewis Financial 
Services Limited wont refund him.
 
What happened
In May 2019 Mr T was visited by a boiler engineer for a routine service. The engineer told 
him his boiler needed repairing, and that this would have to be done by another engineer on 
a second visit. He estimated it would take half an hour. Mr T paid £79 for the first visit.
When the second engineer attended, he said the repair would probably take two hours  not 
the half hour his predecessor had said  and would cost £199. Mr T signed an agreement on 
these terms, and paid with his John Lewis credit card. But the repair actually only took 55 
minutes. So the next day Mr T asked John Lewis for a full refund of £279, because he said 
he had been overcharged. He also said that he had only agreed to the second payment 
under duress, because the second engineer had intimidated him.
John Lewis declined to raise a chargeback for Mr Ts claim, and so Mr T brought this 
complaint to our Service. He also complained that he had sent some original paperwork to 
John Lewis, and that he had not received it back and that John Lewis had lost it. He said this 
would impede any court claim he tried to bring against the company that had sent the 
engineer.
John Lewis said that neither the chargeback rules, nor section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974, would cover a payment made under duress. It said that Mr T had received the 
service he had paid for, and the agreement hed signed had said that there could be no 
refund after the work had been completed. It said there was no evidence of what the 
engineers had said to Mr T, other than Mr Ts uncorroborated account. It had returned his 
original documents to him in the post, and it wasnt its fault if they were not delivered. It 
suggested that the gas company could supply Mr T with its own copies of the agreement and 
any other paperwork he might need. (John Lewis had scanned the documents before 
returning them and it provided our Service with the scans, including the agreement Mr T had 
signed.)
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint, because she accepted John Lewiss 
arguments. Mr T asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
 
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the Mastercard chargeback scheme rules. The rules must be strictly followed, 
and John Lewis has no scope to raise a chargeback dispute in a case where the rules do not 
provide for one.
In the claim form John Lewis asked Mr T to complete, he ticked the box which indicates that 
the service he paid for was not provided. That was clearly not the case, but the form does 
not provide for all of the possible chargeback reasons, so Mr T did not have the opportunity 
to raise a chargeback dispute for another reason. I think he probably felt forced to tick that 
box because none of the others were suitable. I dont think he should be prejudiced by that, 
so I have considered other chargeback reasons which could potentially be relevant to his 
case.
However, having done that, I dont think any of the chargeback reasons applied. There isnt 
one which corresponds to signing a contract under duress or under undue influence. The 
nearest one I could find was one for claiming that the charge was unreasonable, but one of 
the essential criteria for such a claim was not met  namely, that the cardholder was not told 
what the price would be before the work started.
I have seen a copy of the agreement Mr T signed, and the price is clearly and conspicuously 
stated on it. I have noted that when Mr T signed it, he wrote after his name under duress 
and under protest, but I dont think that is covered by any chargeback reason. It is also not 
covered by section 75, which is only about a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a person to enter into a 
contract when they would not have done so if they had known the truth. In those 
circumstances, section 75 would make John Lewis liable for what the second engineer did. 
So I have considered whether John Lewis should have upheld Mr Ts claim for a refund on 
this basis.
The agreement says that the work done was to replace the flow turbine. I have watched 
three different YouTube videos by different plumbers about how to do this, and it is very 
clear to me that this would certainly not have been a two-hour job. Half an hour is a much 
more realistic estimate. However, the agreement does not say how long the job took, or how 
long the engineer predicted it would take. It doesnt say that the rate is £100 per hour, for 
instance; it just says £199 for the whole job.
It is not my role to substitute my own opinion of Mr Ts veracity for John Lewiss, or to predict 
what a court might decide if this matter was dealt with in court. Rather, my role is to decide 
whether John Lewis acted reasonably in declining Mr Ts claim for a refund under section 75, 
in light of the evidence available to it at the time, as well as any new evidence that has come 
to light since. One of the reasons why John Lewis did not agree to give Mr T a refund was 
because there was no evidence to verify what hed said about what the engineers had told 
him. I think that was a decision John Lewis was entitled to make, and so for that reason I 
cannot say that John Lewis was wrong to decline to refund him under section 75.
Finally, I have seen John Lewiss copy of the covering letter it sent when it returned Mr Ts 
original documents to him, so I accept that they were sent. If the mail failed to deliver them, 
that is not John Lewiss fault, because I think that ordinary post was sufficient  it didnt have 
to send them by recorded delivery. So I dont uphold this part of this complaint. But the 
consequences of losing those documents are not as severe as Mr T thinks. A court will 
accept a copy of a document if the original has been lost, and so the scans John Lewis 
made will be admissible in court, if Mr T chooses to pursue that option. And the gas company will have its own copies, which the court can compel them to disclose to Mr T  
although it is likely that the gas company will provide them to Mr T voluntarily if he asks.
 
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Richard Wood
Ombudsman