DRN-3715609
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Openwork Limited trading as The Openwork Partnership (Openwork) 
gave her unsuitable advice when it recommended she switch to a new personal pension 
plan (PPP) and individual savings account (ISA) provider. 
What happened
Mrs B, who was an existing client of Openwork, had a meeting at her home with her 
Openwork adviser in July 2015. Mrs Bs husband was also at the meeting. A Fact Find was 
completed during the meeting. A Client Report, Retirement Account Illustration and 
Recommendation Report were also completed. 
In summary, Openwork recorded the following information about Mrs B: 
Mrs B was 44 years old and married with two financially dependent children. 
Mrs B was employed on a part time basis, earning a gross income of £2,500 per 
annum (p.a.). 
Mrs B and her husband had a joint net monthly income of £4,000 and total monthly 
expenses of £2,300.  
The value of Mrs Bs home, jointly owned with her husband, was £260,000. She and 
her husband had other property valued at £50,000, savings of just under £10,000 
and liabilities totalling £100,000. 
Mrs B took out an ISA in 2011, making a lump sum contribution of £5,000. In 2015 
this was valued at £6,112.07. Regular contributions were not being made. 
Mrs B had a PPP with a transfer value of £5,317.27. She made monthly contributions 
of £95.34. 
Mrs B was part of her employers defined occupational pension scheme. She was 
making regular contributions of £5.50 per month and the scheme retirement age was 
65. 
Mrs B indicated she wanted to retire at age 67.
Based on an Attitude to Risk and Investor Experience questionnaire, Mrs B was 
assessed as an inexperienced investor who relied on advice and recommendations. 
She was assessed as having a balanced attitude to risk. 
Mrs Bs objectives were listed as 1) to build up capital through regular monthly 
premiums, within her budget, 2) to save on charges, 3) to have access to a vast 
range of funds, 4) to put all assets in one place on a platform where her money could 
be managed in a tax efficient way, taking advice and using the new pension reform 
rules to her benefit, 5) to pay additional charges for the funds in anticipation of their 
growth, 6) to have investments auto-rebalanced. 
In recommending the transfer of the PPP and ISA to the Zurich platform, Openwork said the 
following: 
The existing fund range for the PPP and ISA did not meet Mrs Bs objectives. The 
recommended ISA offered 483 funds for switching purposes and the PPP offered 
362 funds. 
The existing PPP was a single manager fund that didnt auto-rebalance. While it had 
a diversified spread of assets, it didnt have a diversified spread in terms of multiple 
funds. 
Transferring the PPP would be more expensive by 0.82%. 
Mrs B had waiver of contribution benefit on her current PPP, at a cost of £2.38 per 
month, and this would be lost following the transfer. 
Transferring the ISA would be less expensive by 0.75%. 
Switching charges were free and unlimited, although the ISA provider reserved the 
right to charge if switching was excessive. 
Moving Mrs Bs investment portfolio to a platform would simplify the way her 
investments were administered and would have defined her investment strategy to 
help achieve future aims and objectives. 
The importance of having an ongoing service commitment was considered and this 
was an important factor for Mrs B in moving to the Platform. 
An ongoing advice fee of 1% pa, to be paid out of funds, for the servicing and 
managing of Mrs Bs assets was agreed. Cost comparisons between the existing and 
the proposed PPP and ISA excluded this ongoing service charge. 
There were no tax liabilities for transferring the PPP or ISA.   
Mrs B should make a monthly contribution of £95 (net) to her retirement account. 
The advisors initial fee of 4% would be deducted from the transfer monies. 
It was agreed that no changes would be made to Mrs Bs occupational pension.  
Mrs B accepted Openworks recommendation and later switched fund providers. 
Mrs B complained to Openwork in April 2021. She said she became concerned when the 
Openwork adviser said she would be charged a total of £900 for her to increase the monthly 
amount paid into her ISA by £150. She said this charge was ultimately reduced to zero, but 
she decided to seek independent advice. Following this advice Mrs B said she then had 
concerns about the recommendations made to her, and that fees and charges may have 
been unnecessary and excessive. Mrs B said she was not an experienced investor and 
when she met with the Openwork Adviser in 2015, she had no specific demands or requests, 
other than that her then holdings were reviewed. Mrs B thought the advice letter from 
July 2015 was difficult to follow and said she was not offered the opportunity to leave her 
funds where they were. 
Openwork responded to Mrs Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. It said it was satisfied Mrs B 
received not only suitable advice but continued advice and ongoing service. 
Mrs B remained unhappy and so brought her complaint to this Service. Mrs Bs husband 
also raised a complaint and this was dealt with separately. Mrs B reiterated what she said in 
the complaint to Openwork and asked for full repayment of all advisor charges paid to 
Openwork.
Our Investigator upheld Mrs Bs complaint and thought the recommendations made by 
Openwork were unsuitable and may have resulted in Mrs B being financially disadvantaged. 
Our Investigator said Openwork should take steps to calculate whether redress was owed to 
Mrs B. 
Openwork did not agree with what our Investigator said. It thought that it was not right that 
the cost of the ongoing advice was used as a factor to calculate that the recommended 
platform pension was more expensive than the transferring scheme. Openwork asked for the 
complaint to be escalated, so this came to me to review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
The Regulators position
At the time of Openworks advice, the Regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), set 
out the principles for assessing suitability. 
Specifically:
9A.2.1 of the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) says:
When providing investment advice or portfolio management a firm must:
(1) obtain the necessary information regarding the clients:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the 
specific type of financial instrument, insurance-based investment 
product or service;
(b) financial situation including his ability to bear losses; and
(c) investment objectives including his 
risk tolerance,
so as to comply with (2);
(2) only recommend investment services, financial instruments and insurance-
based investment products, as applicable, or take decisions to trade, which 
are suitable for the client and, in particular, in accordance with the clients risk 
tolerance and ability to bear losses.
And 9A.2.2 says:
Firms should undertake a suitability assessment not only when making a personal 
recommendation to buy a financial instrument or an insurance-based investment 
product but for all decisions whether to trade, including making any personal 
recommendations about whether or not to buy, hold or sell an investment.
Mrs Bs position at the time of the advice
At the time of the advice, Mrs B was 44 years old. In addition to her being part of her 
employers defined benefit pension scheme  which would have provided her with a pension 
of around £400 p.a.  and her state pension entitlement, Mrs Bs retirement provision 
comprised of one PPP and an ISA. Mrs Bs own pension provision was relatively modest and 
Im aware that her husbands pension benefits represented the largest proportion of their 
future retirement income.
Mrs B had two dependants, who she expected to be financially reliant on her and her 
husband until they reached 21 years of age. She jointly owned her own home, which I have assumed is mortgaged given her total liabilities of £100,000. She and her husband owned 
other property and savings totalling around £60,000. By all accounts, and taking into 
consideration the entire household income, Mrs B appeared to be in a relatively comfortable 
financial position. 
Mrs B was some years away from retiring, given that she expected to retire at the age of 67. 
So, one of her main objectives was to build up capital in her retirement fund, through making 
regular contributions, in the most tax efficient way. 
In deciding whether the advice given was suitable, I have to be satisfied that there were 
clear reasons why this move was more beneficial to Mrs B than her pension and ISA 
remaining where they were.
Financial Viability 
An important part of assessing the viability of financial advice is to look at whether the 
transfer put Mrs B in a better financial position than she would have been in if she had not 
followed the advisers recommendation. I take the view that there has to be a notable benefit 
to Mrs B in order for there to be a good reason to transfer the PPP and ISA. 
Ive considered that what Mrs B has complained about are the charges that have been levied 
by Openwork since the pension switch, that Mrs B considers made the switch too costly and 
the advice unsuitable. 
I can see from the Client Report drawn up by Openwork that the Reduction in Yield (RIY)  
the effect that charges have in reducing the growth of an investment over the term of the 
investment  meant that Mrs B would end up paying more in charges as a result of the PPP 
switch and ISA transfer. 
While the RIY has taken fund charges into account, it hasnt taken the 1% p.a ongoing 
service fee into consideration when calculating the cost of moving Mrs Bs pension funds. 
And I think this needs to be considered when looking at the overall cost to Mrs B. From what 
I can see, Mrs B would most likely not have opted to pay for this particular service had she 
not moved her funds onto one platform, as recommended. I see the ongoing service fee as 
part and parcel of the PPP switch and ISA transfer, and so I think its fair to consider it as a 
cost attached to that move. 
Two of Mrs Bs objectives were listed as building up capital through making monthly 
contributions and saving on charges. Given that the RIY shows Mrs B would have ended up 
paying more in charges as a result of following the advisers recommendations, and that the 
additional 1% ongoing service fee made the move even more costly, I cant see that the 
transfer in 2015 was in line with either of these two objectives. So, on the face of it, it would 
seem that the advice given to Mrs B to move her funds was unsuitable. 
Nonetheless, Ive considered Mrs Bs other objectives and whether there might be other 
considerations that mean a transfer was suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. 
Range of funds, flexibility and consolidation on one platform
Another of Mrs Bs objectives was for her to have access to a vast range of funds with 
experienced fund managers that have a long-term approach to investing in a broad range of 
asset classes. Openwork went on to say Mrs B did not want her investment to be held in 
single manager funds, as she wanted to invest in a diverse portfolio of funds to match her 
attitude to risk. Openwork felt Mrs Bs existing fund range didnt meet her objectives. But I can see that her 
PPP offered her almost the same fund range, in terms of the number of funds available for 
switching. And Openwork acknowledged her existing funds had a diversified spread of 
assets. 
Openwork noted that Mrs Bs existing funds were single manager funds and did not have the 
facility to automatically rebalance her funds, to ensure they remained aligned to her agreed 
risk profile. And this facility, and I agree this is likely to be beneficial, was available by 
moving her funds as recommended. 
Mrs Bs funds were moved to a single platform, which Openwork said allowed her to 
consolidate her investments and provided her with greater flexibility, specifically in relation to 
a built-in drawdown facility at retirement. 
So Ive looked at whether these additional considerations provided enough of a benefit to 
Mrs B that the recommendations to transfer her PPP and ISA were suitable, and I dont think 
they did. 
I think that Openworks recommendation put Mrs B in a position where her funds potentially 
had greater oversight and would be rebalanced on a six-monthly basis, and as I said, I think 
this was likely beneficial for her. 
I also think that while there might be some future benefit to moving her funds to a platform 
that allowed her greater flexibility at retirement, the fact is Mrs Bs retirement needs were not 
discussed during the meeting. Given that Mrs B was 44 years old at the time of the advice 
and her retirement was some years away, I think that it was premature to say that moving 
her funds in the way suggested by Openwork suited her needs in retirement. 
While I can see that the recommended transfer offered some benefits to Mrs B and satisfied 
some of the listed objectives, I dont think this meant the advice given was suitable, as I dont 
think these offered enough of a benefit to Mrs B to justify the transfer, given that the transfer 
wasnt financially viable as set out above. 
I think its clear Mrs Bs main objective, given her age and that she didnt expect to retire for 
some time, was to build up the capital in her retirement funds in the most tax efficient way. I 
think Openwork did not attach enough weight to this as her main objective. I cant see that 
the recommended transfer offered Mrs B more than she already had, if she had opted not to 
transfer the PPP and ISA. Im satisfied that the transfer recommended by Openwork didnt 
provide Mrs B with enough potential to be better off as a result of transferring her existing 
pension provision. 
So, Im satisfied that the advice given to Mrs B was unsuitable and Ive outlined below the 
steps Openwork should take to see whether it needs to take further action here. In addition, I 
think Openwork should pay Mrs B compensation of £200  Mrs B felt she had to take steps 
to have another adviser look again at the recommendations made for her and she found this 
experience stressful. I think its fair to ask Openwork to make a payment for the distress and 
inconvenience experienced.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs B should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs B would mostly likely have remained with her previous providers, 
however I cannot be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous pension plan and ISA would have been worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable, taking this into account and given Mrs B's circumstances and objectives when 
she invested.
What must Openwork do?
In relation to the PPP, to compensate Mrs B fairly, Openwork must:  
Compare the performance of Mrs B's pension with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Openwork should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Openwork should pay into Mrs B's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Openwork is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs B's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mrs B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mrs B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mrs B 
would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied 
to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
In relation to the ISA, to compensate Mrs B fairly, Openwork must: 
Compare the performance of Mrs B's ISA with the notional value if it had remained 
with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no 
compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there 
is a loss and compensation is payable. Openwork should pay Mrs B a lump sum for 
any loss identified. 
Openwork should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mrs B £200 for the reasons explained in my findings to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Openwork deducts income tax from the interest it should tell Mrs B how much has been taken off. Openwork should give Mrs B a 
tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs B asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
PPP and ISA Still exists 
and liquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providersDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mrs B's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Openwork should request that the previous providers calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the PPP and ISA should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the PPP and ISA should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Openwork totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous providers are unable to calculate a notional value, Openwork will need to 
determine a fair value for Mrs B's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the 
investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs B main objective was Capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
If the previous providers are unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mrs B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs B into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs B would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs B could have obtained from 
investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Openwork Limited trading as The Openwork Partnership 
to pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Openwork Limited trading as The Openwork Partnership should provide details of its 
calculation to Mrs B in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman