DRN-3686248
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with how theyve been treated by National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) after they applied for a re-mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L applied for a re-mortgage with NatWest in November 2021. The rate on their 
existing mortgage (with a different lender) was due to expire at the end of April 2022.
Mr and Mrs L applied for the mortgage on-line. The mortgage was agreed in principle subject 
to them providing certain information. After registering for the online portal, Mr L submitted 
the information for both himself and Mrs L and after receiving confirmation the information 
had been received, thought that everything was in hand. Mr L said he was told to look at an 
on-line mortgage tracker to check the progress of the application and that whenever he did 
this, the tracker indicated that NatWest wasnt waiting for any further information to be 
provided. 
In March 2022 Mr L contacted NatWest to check that everything was in order but was told 
that the mortgage application had in fact lapsed and that he and Mrs L would need to re-
apply. Mr L complained that this would put him out of pocket because interest rates had 
gone up. He asked that NatWest honour the rate they had applied for in November 2021 -  
on the basis they had thought everything was going through as it should and that they hadnt 
received any notification to the contrary. 
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said that it had contacted Mrs L using 
the contact details initially provided, to request that she independently submit the 
documentation requested from her. It said that this was a security measure to ensure that 
both parties are fully aware of the request. 
It said that it wouldnt be able to re-instate the original application and that Mr and Mrs L 
would need to submit a new application if they wanted to proceed. 
Mr L remained unhappy. He said that when both he and Mrs L independently logged in to 
the system, the tracker showed that no further information was required from either of them 
and that this was contrary to what NatWest had suggested. NatWest clarified that the tracker 
becomes active after the information requested has been received from both applicants and 
the application moves to the next stage of the process, involving underwriter review. It said 
that the application never got that far, because Mrs L hadnt independently submitted the 
required information, as had been requested. 
NatWest upheld the complaint in part on the basis that it had given Mr and Mrs L conflicting 
information about the mortgage tracker in the course of looking into their concerns and it 
said it paid Mr and Mrs L £100 to reflect this. However, NatWests decision remained 
unaltered on the substantive/original issue.    
With matters still not resolved to their satisfaction, Mr and Mrs L referred their concerns to 
this Service.
They said that none of the communications at outset involving the tracker explained that it 
would only apply / be accurate after a certain stage in the process. As such, Mr L (who had 
taken a lead on doing the application) had been relying on the fact that when it said no 
further information was required, this meant the application was progressing as it should. 
They said that when Mr L submitted Mrs Ls documents through his log-in, he hadnt 
received any notification to say this was incorrect. 
Mr and Mrs L said that on top of the stress of the situation, they were losing out financially. 
Because the interest rate theyd ended up with through a different lender, was higher than 
what they would have been paying had they been able to secure the product theyd applied 
for in November 2021  such that they would be around £7,000 worse off. 
To put things right, Mr and Mrs L ideally wanted NatWest to honour the rate applied for in 
November 2021 but if not then to provide compensation for the higher mortgage repayments 
they were needing to pay. 
An investigator here reached a view on the complaint. In summary, she said that she didnt 
think NatWest was solely to blame for the mortgage lapsing and that she couldnt be sure 
the mortgage wouldve been approved if the application had proceeded as intended. Whilst 
Mr and Mrs L had been told to use the mortgage tracker to track the progress of their 
application and that this suggested no information was outstanding, it was still the case that 
Mrs L hadnt provided information in the specific way in which it had been requested.
She also thought that Mr and Mrs L and left it quite a long time before contacting NatWest to 
find out what was happening and that, if theyd made contact sooner, this may have changed 
things. She said she thought the offer of £100 was reasonable to reflect the conflicting 
information Mr and Mrs L had been given by NatWest about the tracker, during the contact in 
March 2022. 
Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy. In summary, they said that the mortgage was applied for 
and expected to be managed on-line. The only way to track progress was through the 
tracker. Given this, and that the tracker indicated everything was okay, its unreasonable to 
say that Mr L ought to have made telephone contact before he did. Mr and Mrs L also said 
that they had a long track record of taking out mortgages, had never been denied one and 
both had high credit ratings. So the application would likely have been successful.
The investigator said that the lack of change in what the mortgage tracker was saying for a 
long period of time, ought to have prompted Mr and Mrs L to check what was happening 
before they did. And that it was their responsibility to provide the information requested in the 
way it was requested. She questioned whether any further communication from NatWest 
would have changed anything, given that Mrs L didnt respond to the request for information 
in the first place. But did say she agreed it was likely the application wouldve gone through if 
it had proceeded. 
Mr L still didnt accept that he ought to have made contact sooner than he did. And pointed 
to the fact he had secured a mortgage in time with another lender, to show he hadnt left 
things too late. He said that if NatWest had contacted him (as the lead applicant) to notify 
him there was something outstanding, he would certainly have made sure the information 
was provided.  
After asking NatWest for some further information to do with the process and Mr and Mrs Ls 
comments, the investigator issued another view. In summary, she said that while she stood 
by the crux of her earlier findings, she did think that the combination of NatWest not 
contacting Mr and Mrs L again to say it was still awaiting information and that it couldve 
been clearer at outset about when the tracker would apply, meant that it should pay another £100 to reflect its part in the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs L. 
NatWest accepted the investigators findings. Mr and Mrs L did not. They said that whilst 
they hadnt expected to receive what they considered to be their loss from the higher 
mortgage payments, they expected more than the £100 extra being suggested. They said 
that many questions remained unanswered about what had happened with regard to the 
application process and that they didnt see how a full and frank review can be said to have 
been carried out without receiving answers to the questions. 
So, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on 
what I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
And having done all of that, I think this complaint should be upheld in the same way as that 
suggested by the investigator, for largely the same reasons. I realise that this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs L. But I hope theyll understand why Ive come to the 
conclusion that I have.
Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Or to carry out an investigation in the way that either 
party thinks I should. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given the 
circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I think 
are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching them. 
But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in mind 
all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when doing 
that.
The key things I need to decide, are:
- To what extent (if at all) is NatWest responsible for the increased mortgage costs 
Mr and Mrs L say they will end up having to pay?
- What amount of compensation is appropriate to reflect the impact of NatWests 
contribution to the situation Mr and Mrs L found themselves in?
Is NatWest responsible for Mr and Mrs L paying increased mortgage costs?
In short, I find that NatWest doesnt have liability for any increased costs arising from the 
application lapsing. It isnt in dispute that NatWest notified Mrs L that she needed to 
independently provide the information requested after the application had been made. 
Ultimately, the reason the application lapsed is that the information requested wasnt 
provided by Mrs L in the way requested. And this is the key reason why Mr and Mrs L 
missed out on the particular mortgage they were seeking. 
I can understand Mr Ls point that he didnt receive any kind of notification (as lead applicant) 
to say that some of the information requested was outstanding and that, if not provided, the 
application was going to lapse. And that if he had received such a notification, he wouldve made sure the information was provided in time. It strikes me that such a notification 
wouldve represented good customer service. 
It seems that NatWest accepts that it could have been clearer at outset about when the 
mortgage tracker would apply. But this doesnt affect liability because, in the end, everything 
comes back to Mrs L not having provided the information requested in the way it was 
requested. 
What level of compensation is appropriate?
Whilst the fact the application didnt proceed was ultimately because Mrs L didnt provide the 
information requested in the manner requested, I accept that the news the mortgage had 
lapsed came as a surprise and disappointment to Mr and Mrs L. Although not ultimately 
responsible for the application lapsing, I do consider that NatWest contributed to the 
situation through the combination of not being clearer about what the tracker showed and 
doing nothing to notify Mr and Mrs L that the application was going to lapse.
For balance, I do also have to consider that Mr L didnt contact NatWest until March 2022  
over three months later. I understand Mr Ls point that it was meant to be an entirely on-line 
process and that he still had time to get another mortgage in place after he made contact in 
March. However even taking account of these things, I do think that Mr L ought reasonably 
to have considered asking for an update sooner  given that he says he was getting the 
same message on the tracker about having everything needed, but not hearing or receiving 
anything further.
 
Deciding what level of compensation is appropriate is subjective, but taking everything into 
account, I consider that £200 is reflective of NatWests contribution to the frustration caused 
by the situation Mr and Mrs L found themselves in and the conflicting information NatWest 
gave them about the tracker, in March 2022. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and direct National Westminster 
Bank Plc to pay them a total of £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman