DRN-3036703
The complaint
Ms E has complained that Zenith Insurance plc refused to pay a claim on her motor 
insurance policy and then cancelled it as if it hadn't existed (known as voidance).
In bringing this complaint Ms Es been helped by her son, but for ease of reading, except 
where its necessary to refer to his actions explicitly, Ill refer to all comments as being 
Ms Es. 
Reference to Zenith includes its agents.
What happened
Ms Es car was damaged in an accident and Zenith deemed it a total loss. It initially said it 
would pay her £5,000 for the market value of the car. But before settling the claim it learned 
that Ms E wasn't the cars registered keeper, her son was. It then told Ms E that it was 
refusing to pay her claim and voiding her policy.
Ms E brought her complaint about that to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She 
thought it was reasonable for Zenith to void Ms Es policy. But she thought it had made some 
mistakes. So she said it should refund Ms Es policy premium and pay her £100 
compensation. 
Neither Zenith nor Ms E agreed with our investigators assessment of the complaint so it's 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to partly uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Ms E has made a number of points. I've considered everything 
shes said carefully. But in this decision I don't intend to address each and every point raised 
and will instead focus on what I see as being the key outstanding issues at the heart of 
Ms Es complaint. 
Was it fair for Zenith to void Ms Es policy and keep her premium?
When Ms E took out her policy she was asked if she was the cars owner and registered 
keeper. That is a fairly standard question when consumers are looking for motor insurance 
policies. Thats because many insurers have strict underwriting criteria, which are the rules 
they follow when deciding whether to offer cover to individuals, and its fairly common for 
insurers to refuse to insure drivers if they or their spouse are not the owner or registered 
keeper of the car. And that's a decision which insurers are allowed to come to.
Ms E told Zenith that she was the cars registered keeper. But that wasn't right. I understand 
that Ms Es son acquired the car for her and Ms E had sole use of it. But her son remained 
the cars registered keeper. So, when she answered the question about whether or not she 
was the cars registered keeper she should have answered that she wasn't. Ms E explained 
to Zenith that, because the car was for her own use, she'd mistakenly said she was the 
cars owner and registered keeper, she added that this was a genuine mistake. In other 
words Ms E has acknowledged that she didn't give accurate information when answering the 
question about whether or not she was the cars registered keeper. 
Giving incorrect information when applying for a policy is known in the insurance industry as 
making a misrepresentation. And theres a specific law called the Consumer insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) which sets out what an insurer may do 
where a consumers made a misrepresentation. It says that where, but for that 
misrepresentation, an insurer wouldnt have entered into the contract, otherwise known as 
the policy, it may refuse any claim and void it.
In this case Zenith has shown us its relevant underwriting criteria. And those show that it 
won't offer policies to people who arent the registered keeper of the car in question. So, if 
Ms E had told Zenith that it was her son rather than herself who was the cars registered 
keeper, Zenith wouldn't ever have insured her. And in those circumstances CIDRA allows 
Zenith to void the policy. 
Ms E has suggested that Zenith should take some responsibility for validating the 
information she provided before deciding whether to offer her a policy or not. But I don't think 
thats reasonable. First of all I don't think details about whos registered as a cars keeper is 
information that would be instantly available to insurers when deciding when to offer a policy 
or not. But even if it is I don't think its Zeniths responsibility to check the details a 
policyholder provides at point of sale. Insurers make it clear both at point of sale and in their 
policy documents that its important for policyholders to provide them with accurate 
information and tell them if anything isn't right. And CIDRA requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, rather than requiring insurers to validate 
the information policyholders give. So it's not the insurers responsibility to check if the 
consumers made a misrepresentation at the point of sale. It follows that I don't think it would 
be fair to lay any blame for Ms Es mistake when applying for the policy at Zeniths door.
I understand that Ms E didn't deliberately give Zenith the wrong information. But I don't think 
that makes a difference here. As I've said above CIDRA requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation and it categorises misrepresentation as 
falling under one of two definitions: 
careless, or 
deliberate/reckless.
Zenith hasn't said that Ms Es misrepresentation was deliberate/reckless, but thinks it was 
careless. And I agree. But, in either situation CIDRA allows the insurer to void the policy. So 
I think it was reasonable for it to follow the remedy which CIDRA allows it and to void the 
policy in these circumstances. And that means it doesn't have to pay any of Ms Es claim.
But CIDRA also says that where a consumer makes a careless misrepresentation and the 
insurer voids the policy then the insurer must return the premiums paid. But in this instance 
Zenith hasn't returned Ms Es premium. Its told us it hasn't done so because its paid out for 
other costs, for example storage and recovery fees, as a result of Ms Es claim. So its 
retained her premium to cover those costs. But CIDRA says that, in Ms Es circumstances, 
Zenith must return her premium to her, it doesn't say it may keep some or all of her 
premium to cover any costs its incurred. So I think its fair that it refunds Ms Es premium 
payments now.Did Zenith provide Ms E with misleading information?
While looking into her complaint, on 5 February 2021, one of Zeniths engineers spoke with 
Ms E to give her a valuation for her car. But at that time, Zenith didn't know that Ms E wasn't 
registered as the cars keeper. Ms Es son then rang Zenith to discuss the engineers 
valuation. After speaking to Ms Es son, the engineer increased his valuation to £5,000, 
which Ms E accepted. And it was during that call that Ms Es son told Zenith that in fact he 
and not his mum was the owner and registered keeper of the car. 
The engineer clearly wasn't aware that the fact Ms E wasn't the owner of the car could affect 
any possible pay out. But, even if that wasn't the case, the engineer should have made it 
clear that his job was limited to valuing the car rather than settling the claim. So he should 
have explained that the claim pay-out was actually subject to further claim validation. But 
there's no evidence he did so.
Ms Es said that because she expected Zenith to pay her £5,000 she went out and bought 
another car. She said she wouldn't have done that if it wasn't for Zeniths poor advice. While 
I have some sympathy with Ms Es position, I note Zenith hadn't put anything in writing 
confirming an offer to settle the claim. And I don't think it was Zeniths fault that Ms E bought 
a car before it had actually settled her claim. Further, Ive noted that she added the new car 
to her policy on 2 March 2021. But her son had rung Zenith the day before and it had told 
him that the matter was still with its underwriters. In other words, it told Ms E (via her son) 
the day before she added the new car to her policy that her claim still hadn't been finalised. 
So Im not persuaded that Ms E is out of pocket because of any failure of Zeniths. 
That said, I understand it must have been frustrating for Ms E to think that Zenith were going 
to settle her claim, only to learn some weeks later that it wasn't going to. So to reflect the 
impact of that unnecessarily raised expectation I think it's fair that Zenith pays Ms E £100 
compensation.
Was it fair for Zenith to record the car as a total loss (also known as a write off)?
Ms E said it was unfair that Zenith had refused to pay her claim but had still recorded her car 
as a total loss on a shared database, which informs the DVLA. She said that action devalued 
the car unnecessarily. But while I can understand her point of view I don't think Zenith has 
done anything wrong. 
When assessing cars to establish if they are a total loss Zenith follows guidance from an 
industry wide code of practice. That code says that if Zenith (or any other insurer) deems a 
car to be a total loss then Zenith must enter the cars details onto the shared database as 
soon as reasonably practical after inspection. And thats what Zenith did in this case and as 
it was acting in line with industry best practice I think it did so fairly.    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Zenith Insurance plc 
to:
Refund the full policy premium which Ms E had paid to Zenith;
Pay her £100 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman