DRN-3450037
The complaint
Mr G complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) avoided his policy (treated it 
like it never existed) and declined his claim. Mr G wants his motor insurance policy 
reinstating and his claim paid.
There are several parties and representatives of Admiral involved throughout the claim but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Admiral.
What happened
Mr G took out a motor insurance policy with Admiral. He paid the annual premium in full.
In September 2019, after Mr G had taken out the policy, he had an accident. He made a 
claim on his car insurance policy with Admiral.
Whilst making the claim it was noticed that Mr G had not disclosed a motoring offence. He 
had disclosed one but there were two offences. This was checked with the DVLA. Mr G 
agreed this was an error on his behalf. 
During the call, Admiral told Mr G it would need to refer his claim to its underwriter to 
investigate. It also wrote to him on 15 October 2019 to inform him of the potential 
consequences of not disclosing the motoring offence and to give him the opportunity to 
explain why he had not told them of the missing offence. 
Mr G had a second accident on 20 October 2019. His car was badly damaged. He made a 
second claim on his policy with Admiral. Mr G said he had not received the letter of 15 
October 2019. 
Mr G said he had forgotten about the undisclosed offence as it had expired on his licence, 
and he had assumed Admiral had the details because he had provided his driving licence 
number when obtaining his quote.
Admiral confirmed to him on 29 October 2019 its decision to avoid his policy. Admiral said if 
it had been aware of this offence it wouldnt have offered him a policy as it did not insure 
motorists with this specific motoring offence. 
As Mr G was not happy with Admiral, he brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He looked into the case and didnt think 
Admiral had been unfair in avoiding Mr Gs policy. But he said Admiral should repay Mr Gs 
premium plus interest at 8% from the date of avoidance in accordance with the law. 
Admiral agreed to return the policy premium to Mr G after confirmation he accepted the 
investigators view. 
As Mr G is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What I have provisionally decided and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and 
insurer when entering into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty 
to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation (such as giving untrue or 
misleading answers). And sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the 
consumer failed to take reasonable care.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out that a qualifying misrepresentation can be careless, reckless, or deliberate. 
If found to be careless, the insurer can take action depending on what it would have done 
had it not been for the misrepresentation/non- disclosure. 
Admiral thinks Mr G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
failed to disclose all his motoring convictions on the application for his motor policy.
Policy
Ive looked into the detail in Mr Gs policy and the questions he was asked.
In the General Conditions section of Mr Gs car insurance guide it says;
You will be provided with the cover set out in this policy if:
 you or anyone else claiming cover under the policy has kept to all the terms and 
conditions of the policy
 the information confirmed on your Motor Proposal Confirmation or when registering a 
claim is true and complete
I checked the Motor Proposal Confirmation and I saw the section in which motoring offences 
are detailed. Here it clearly says, Motoring offence within the last 5 years. In Mr Gs 
proposals there was only one offence listed and not both. Therefore, it was not complete.
In the same document it says;
Declaration: It is an offence under the Road Traffic Act to make a false statement or 
withhold any information to gain the issue of a Motor Insurance Certificate. Any incorrect 
information could lead to us declaring your policy void and/or declining any claim.
We use all the information contained on this form to assess the risk we are undertaking. You 
should disclose this information accurately and you must contact us if any information is 
incorrect or has changed. A copy of this Motor Proposal Confirmation has been supplied for 
you to keep. If you give us any added information in writing you should make and keep a 
copy.
I have considered the documents that were sent to Mr G at the start of the policy and having 
done so I think that Admiral clearly defined what was required from the policyholder. And it 
was clear that Mr G was responsible for providing Admiral with the details of all his motoring 
offences in the past five years.Mr G received two versions of this proposal documentation. The first on 29 July 2019 when 
the policy first started and again on 1 August 2019 when he updated the number plate to his 
private registration. Therefore he had two opportunities to notice the missing motoring 
offence.
Mr G said that as he had provided his driving licence details when obtaining his quote all his 
motoring offences would have been highlighted to Admiral. However, I cannot accept that it 
was reasonable for him not to check his documents or notice that he had a motoring offence 
missing from the proposals sent to him. As a consequence I consider that Mr G has made a 
material misrepresentation to Admiral of his circumstances.
I have considered the background information and reasons Mr G was issued the undisclosed 
motoring offence.  I understand that he had some personal family issues to deal with during 
a similar time period, so I can appreciate this motoring offence will not have been the most 
important thing on his mind. 
However, as the policy holder it is Mr Gs responsibility to check all of his insurance policy 
documents. As I have said above, I believe the documents sent to him by Admiral were clear 
about disclosing motoring offences, what to do if they were incorrect on the policy 
documents and the potential consequences of his policy being avoided if they were not 
disclosed.
Admiral has provided evidence of its underwriting guidance that shows it does not offer 
motor insurance cover to motorists with Mr Gs conviction. I have seen this guidance and 
although I cant disclose this as its commercially sensitive, I can assure Mr G it supports 
Admirals position that it wouldnt have offered him cover. This means I am satisfied Mr Gs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Admiral thinks Mr G failed to take reasonable care, but it hasnt refunded his premium and 
so in effect has treated the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. Where an insurer 
reaches this view, it is a requirement that the insurer demonstrates the evidence in support 
of this.
I havent seen evidence that would indicate Mr G deliberately or recklessly failed to provide 
details of the offence. I dont believe that Mr Gs misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless and Im satisfied it should be treated as careless. Ive looked at the actions Admiral 
can take in accordance with CIDRA. Admiral can avoid the policy back to its start date. This 
means his policy can be treated as though it never existed. However, Admiral is required by 
CIDRA to reimburse Mr G for his policy premiums for the avoided period of his policy.
Claims 
The issue with undisclosed offences was identified when Mr G made his first claim on his 
insurance for damage caused by a third-party. 
Mr G said when the undisclosed motoring offence was discovered at the point he made the 
claim for this accident in September 2019, he was informed that he was still OK to use the 
car and was insured. He said on the date of the second accident in October 2019 as Admiral 
were aware of both his motoring offences it should accept this claim
I have listened to the calls between Mr G and Admiral on 20 September when he made the 
first claim and I did not find that Admiral had told Mr G he was still OK to drive. The question 
was not asked by Mr G and Admiral did not bring this up during the call. The Admiral call handler said she had now recorded the previously undisclosed offence and 
it was now all up to date. She also said that his claim will be passed to its underwriters and 
they would let him know if there were any changes at all.
Mr G said he had no reason to doubt his insurance was on hold or could be cancelled, He 
said he felt the Admiral call handler was actually very reassuring that everything with his 
claim was fine. He said if he had been informed that his insurance was on hold as he felt he 
should have been, then he would not have used the car. 
Mr G said after the call on 20 September 2019 he spent time obtaining quotes for repairs 
and no one told him there could be an issue with his insurance claim. He said this also led 
him to believe there was no issue with his claim 
I have looked at the correspondence that was all sent by email to Mr G on the 20 September 
2019 after he made the claim call to Admiral. There were three in total. One letter regarding 
approved repairs, one letter introducing Admiral Law, and one letter stating his claim had 
been passed to Admirals underwriting department and that it may not be able to deal with 
his claim. They were all sent on the same day.
 
On 15 October 2019, before the date of Mr Gs second accident, further correspondence 
was sent to Mr G in which Admiral confirm again his claim has been referred to an 
underwriter and this includes reference to its option to void an insurance policy where there 
has been a non-disclosure/misrepresentation. 
This letter also included the following paragraph This could mean that any claim against the 
policy would be refused and the policy cancelled in its entirety. I refer you to the section of 
your policy booklet entitled Keeping your policy up to date which outlines the importance of 
making sure your policy is accurate and correct.
Mr G said he was not sure if he received the email sent 15 October 2019. As it was sent to 
the same address as all other correspondence, I think Admiral made adequate written 
attempts to inform him there could be an issue with his cover. He had also previously been 
informed of the potential issue with his cover, in writing, on 20 September 2019. 
After considering the letters and phone calls together, although Admiral have not specifically 
said for Mr G not to drive his car, I think it was clear there may be an issue with the cover in 
place.  
When Mr G had a second accident and he made a claim on his car insurance on 20 October 
2019 he was told by the call handler he could not continue with the claim until the 
underwriting team had responded regarding the undisclosed motoring offence.
On 29 October 2019 Admiral confirmed to Mr G it had decided to exercise its option to 
declare all cover for him and his car, null and void from the policy start date. And confirmed 
as a result of this, it was unable to deal with his claims. 
Admiral did not refund the cost of the policy to Mr G. It did not offer any explanation why it 
did not. As Im satisfied Mr Gs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, under the 
terms of CIDRA this means it has to refund the cost of the policy to him. I intend to require 
Admiral to return the premium paid with interest added.
Admiral awarded Mr G £50 for the frustration and upset caused during the call on 20 
September 2019. It accepted its call handler should have placed him on notice that his cover 
may be affected. I believe the compensation of £50 paid to Mr G by Admiral for frustration and upset its 
actions caused by not being clear during the initial claim call was not adequate. I intend to 
require Admiral to increase its offer to £150.
I understand Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, but I think Admiral have acted in 
accordance with its underwriting criteria by avoiding his policy, due to his failure to disclose 
his motoring offences in full. 
Therefore, I intend to partially uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Admiral responded to say
Mr G did not provide his driving licence details at quotation as he said he did. The policy 
was accepted online based purely on the customers self declaration. It said had driving 
licence numbers been provided during the quotation he would have been redirected to 
Admirals call centre due to the mismatch between what the customer had declared and 
DVLA records.
It did not have the original quote log but new evidence was submitted from Admirals 
online system that showed the policy created from the quote did not include a driving 
licence number. Admiral said this showed Mr G did not provide his driving licence 
number when obtaining his quote. 
As it now appears Mr G provided misleading information about originally providing his 
driving licence number to support his dispute, it feels this strongly adds weight to its 
assessment of the misrepresentation being reckless. It said this indicates Mr G did not 
care about the accuracy of the information he provided. Admiral confirmed it assesses 
this misrepresentation as being reckless.
Mr G responded to say 
When he reported the first damage to his car, why did Admirals advisor not tell him his 
insurance was on hold and not to use his vehicle. And why did it take Admiral so long to 
void his insurance.
Why did Admiral not check his driving licence that he had submitted when requesting the 
on line quote. Why have Admiral not provided proof that his licence number was not 
input on its online system.
Why did Admiral not pay back his premium immediately if they recognised this as a 
mistake.
He realised he made a mistake but feels Admiral have done the same. He believes  
Admiral are equally to blame in misrepresentation and that a fair resolution would be for 
Admiral to settle half of the loss (£10,000).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Admirals comments
I accept that the new evidence provided shows that Mr Gs policy was offered without 
Admiral using his driving licence number. However I cannot say with 100% certainty this 
proves he did not provide it during his on line application, because Admiral have not 
been able to provide the original quote log.In response to Mr Gs comments
In my provisional decision I have already responded that Mr G was notified by Admiral 
that there could be an issue with his cover and it may not be able to deal with his claim. 
Mr G was given ten days from 15 October 2019 to give his reasons for non discosure of 
the offence and for them to be considered. The final decision to avoid his insurance was 
made by Admiral on 29 October 2019. I think this timescale is reasonable.
Admiral have now submitted new evidence that it says show Mr G did not submit his 
driving licence when he made his online application.
The premium was not paid back immediately as Admiral believe it is not liable to pay it 
back. Although it did not confirm its reason of reckless misrepresentation until now.
Mr G is responsible for the accuracy of the information supplied to Admiral and he was 
given enough opportunity to notice his mistake. Admiral cannot be held responsible for 
customer mistakes.
In this case we still have the situation that Mr G said he submitted his driving licence number 
and Admiral say he did not. There is no conclusive proof if he did or did not.
However there is no doubt there is evidence of a series of mistakes made by Mr G. Including 
inaccuracies when completing his application and not checking his policy paperwork after 
the policy started. 
I realise this matter has caused Mr G a great deal of distress and a significant financial loss. 
But based on the evidence and after considering everything again, I think that there is fair 
and reasonable argument to say the misrepresentation made by Mr G should be considered 
careless. I have reached this conclusion in part as it is Admirals responsibility to show it was 
reckless and I dont think it has done that.
As Im satisfied Mr Gs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, under the terms of 
CIDRA this means Admiral has to refund the cost of the policy to him. I require Admiral to 
return the premium paid with interest added.
I believe the compensation of £50 paid to Mr G by Admiral for frustration and upset its 
actions caused by not being clear during the initial claim call was not adequate for the impact 
of its poor service on Mr G. I require Admiral to increase its offer to £150.
Therefore I partially uphold Mr Gs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint in part.
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay the cost of the avoided policy premiums 
to Mr G within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr G accepts my final decision. It must 
also pay interest on the cost of the policy from the date Mr G paid for the policy to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr G compensation to the total of £150, 
less the £50 already paid. It must pay within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr G 
accepts my final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman