DRN-3290811
The complaint
Ms C has complained about how Astrenska Insurance Limited (Astrenska) dealt with issues 
with her boiler under her home emergency policy.
What happened
Ms C contacted Astrenska several times because of issues with her boiler. Astrenska sent 
engineers, but Ms C remained concerned that her boiler wasnt working and that this had 
been an issue for over a year.
Ms C complained to Astrenska about a number of issues. When Astrenska replied it didnt 
identify any issues with how it had handled the claims.
When Ms C complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said 
Astrenska had dealt with the claims appropriately. However, it hadnt properly assessed Ms 
Cs complaint and had missed some of the issues. He said Astrenska should pay £50 
compensation.
As Ms C didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. I will explain why.
Im aware that Ms C previously complained to this service about Astrenska not dealing with 
noises coming from her boiler. She also complained to this service about the policy 
premiums. However, both of those issues were different complaints and I wont be dealing 
with them here.
Ms C contacted Astrenska on several occasions because of issues with her boiler. Ive 
looked at Astrenskas records for each time Ms C requested an engineer. Ms Cs boiler 
seemed to have a pressure issue. An engineer visited and put some sealant in the system to 
try and fix any leaks. A few months later, another engineer visited because the boiler 
pressure had dropped again. He carried out a range of checks and topped up the boiler 
pressure. He then returned the next day and didnt find an issue with the pressure, although 
he did suggest a leak detection team might be required. He also offered Ms C a heater, 
which she declined.
From what Ive seen, there was then a gap of a few months before Ms C reported another 
issue with the boiler. When an engineer visited, he found that Ms C had turned the boiler off 
at the switch by mistake. When he switched it back on, the boiler started working again. Ms 
C then contacted Astrenska again a few months later because the boiler was making noises. 
However, the boiler noises dont form part of this complaint.
So, from what Ive seen, Astrenska sent engineers when Ms C reported issues with the 
pressure to her boiler. The engineers seem to have taken steps to try and find the source of 
any issues, including visiting again to check the pressure. I think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances
Ms C has explained that she was also concerned about the boiler because of her age and 
disability. From what Ive seen, Astrenska was aware Ms C was vulnerable and it tried to 
address her concerns. However, when Ms C complained about a range of issues, Astrenska 
didnt respond to all of her concerns about the boiler. I think this will have added to Ms Cs 
concerns about her boiler and whether she was receiving the appropriate level of service 
under the policy. As a result, I require Astrenska to pay Ms C £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her.
Putting things right
Astrenska should pay Ms C £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
her.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Astrenska Insurance Limited to pay Ms C £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman