DRN-2437531
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the service he received from Domestic & General Insurance 
Limited (D&G) when his fridge freezer needed to be replaced.
What happened
The background to this complaint is known to both parties and has been summarised by our 
investigator in his view of Mr Js complaint. I therefore wont repeat it here but instead Ill 
focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mr Js complaint and Ill explain why not.
When Mr Js fridge freezer developed a fault and couldnt be repaired because the 
necessary part was no longer available, Mr J was entitled to a replacement through his 
Smartcare policy with D&G. The relevant part of the policy states:
 In these circumstances, we will arrange to replace your appliance with one of a same or 
similar make and technical specification. 
The problem Mr J faced was that the new fridge freezer had to have very specific 
dimensions in order to neatly fit the space where the old one had been. Mr J had lengthy 
conversations with D&G to try to identify a make and model that would meet the size 
requirements. There were also a number of other limitations that he mentioned to D&G when 
it was trying to source a replacement for him, namely the colour, the way the doors opened, 
and that it didnt have a water dispenser. 
The only make and model that D&G was able to identify that met these various 
requirements, and which was available to it, was a more expensive model. Mr J had rejected 
a cheaper model of another brand as it had a water dispenser. Mr and Mrs J, who both 
spoke to D&Gs agent, were told that there would be an upgrade fee of £150 for this model. 
They were willing to pay this, and the order was placed.
In relation to this part of Mr Js complaint, and having listened to the relevant phone 
conversation, I dont consider that D&G has done anything wrong. In my view D&Gs agent 
was very helpful throughout, and clearly explained on a number of occasions that the 
replacement model was the only one he could identify that met all their requirements, but it 
would incur an upgrade fee of £150, which I dont consider is unreasonable for an upgraded 
model. Neither Mr nor Mrs J raised any problem with this, and paid it. 
Mr J has complained about the fact that when the replacement appliance was delivered, he 
was asked to pay a £12 charge to take his old appliance away. His complaint is that this 
wasnt made clear to him by D&G and he had to go to the inconvenience of phoning D&G 
again to make this payment.
He has also complained that he had to employ an electrician to install the replacement 
appliance as the old one had been hard wired and so the replacement couldnt be connected 
on delivery.
 
Ive looked at Mr Js policy and it states very clearly under the heading What is not covered 
a number of things including installation and disposal charges. The policy also states more 
fully:
Disposal, delivery, installation and other costs
1. 
2. If your appliance is replaced, you will need to arrange the disposal of the 
replaced appliance. We will dispose of the replaced appliance if it is in our 
possession.
3.In all cases you will be responsible for installing the new appliance and paying 
any related costs.
I therefore think its clear that the additional charges that Mr J has complained about are for 
services that the policy specifically excludes, so I dont think its unreasonable that Mr J be 
required to pay these.
I appreciate Mr Js point that D&Gs agent didnt ask him if he wanted it to remove his old 
appliance, and tell him that if he did, there would be a charge for this. It wouldve been 
helpful if the agent had asked him this, although this wouldnt have avoided the charge.
I dont think it was unreasonable of D&G not to have asked how Mr Js old appliance was 
wired in case this might require something more than the replacement appliance simply 
being plugged in, as most appliances are. How his old machine was wired was only 
something Mr J knew, and he couldve asked for clarification as to whether D&G could 
provide this service.
In the circumstances, whilst I accept the Mr J feels he was inconvenienced in having to 
contact D&G again to pay the disposal charge, I dont consider that this reaches the level of 
inconvenience where this service would consider awarding compensation. In all other 
respects, D&G acted in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. So Im not 
upholding Mr Js complaint and Im not going to ask D&G to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman