DRN-1635659
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC has handled a chargeback claim he made 
for a refund of a payment to purchase a car.  
What happened
Mr C made a payment of £1,435 in November 2018 using his Barclays debit card. This was 
to purchase a car for his daughter.
The car broke down a couple of months later. It transpired that it needed extensive repairs. 
Mr C tried to resolve matters with the seller  he requested a full refund as he felt it had 
withheld information about the cars condition that, had he been aware of, wouldve meant he 
wouldnt have bought the car. So, he now wished to reject it as unsuitable.
The seller declined to provide a refund, so in February 2019 Mr C requested that Barclays 
help him get a refund by carrying out a chargeback. Barclays raised a claim under the 
relevant card scheme rules and temporarily credited £1,435 to Mr Cs account. It confirmed 
this to Mr C, including that the refund was temporary, in writing on 26 February 2019
The seller disputed the claim. Barclays wrote to Mr C on 26 March 2019 asking for his 
further comments within ten days.
Mr C responded in time, but Barclays did not review the response or take the claim further. 
As a result, the chargeback claim was closed, and the temporary credit removed from Mr Cs 
account. 
Mr C complained to Barclays. Barclays said that under the card scheme rules it was unable 
to log this claim again. It apologised for not actioning the response Mr C had sent and paid 
him £230 for the inconvenience caused by this. But it didnt feel it was responsible for 
refunding the amount of the original transaction as it thought the chargeback was unlikely to 
have succeeded even if it had acted differently.
Mr C asked our service to investigate his complaint. He says that he no longer has the car, 
so he has paid for something he doesnt have. He feels Barclays should not have returned 
the money to the seller and thinks Barclays should refund him the £1,435.
 
 
 
 
An investigator looked into the complaint but felt that Barclays offer was fair. He said that 
Barclays had initiated a chargeback as requested which was defended. The only remaining 
step available was arbitration by the card scheme. Barclays error meant that didnt happen. 
But it was not compulsory that Barclays had to send the matter to arbitration. If it felt the matter was unlikely to succeed it could decline to do so  which Barclays has indicated it 
wouldve done here. So even if Barclays had reviewed Mr Cs further submission it may have 
chosen not to take the matter to arbitration. And even if the matter had gone to arbitration, 
there was no guarantee it wouldve been successful. So, given all of this he didnt feel 
Barclays could reasonably be required to pay the initial sum that was in dispute. 
Mr C disagreed. He felt he had been let down by Barclays and was now left in a position of 
having paid for something he no longer has. He reiterated the events between himself and 
the seller in detail and why he felt the seller was at fault. He said that he felt Barclays was 
endorsing the actions of the seller, so he would have difficulty taking this matter further. As 
Mr C did not agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr C feels strongly about this, particularly about the way the seller has acted. Ive 
read what he has said about what has happened since the initial dispute and no longer 
having the vehicle he has paid for. And in turn that to also not have received the refund has 
left him out of pocket. But this all stems from the original dispute  which is with the seller. 
And I think it is important to remember that Im looking at how Barclays has acted in 
assisting Mr C with that dispute and obtaining a refund, whether it has made an error and 
what should be done to address this.  
The payment to the seller of the vehicle was made by debit card. So, the way that Barclays 
could help with a dispute was by raising a chargeback.
Chargeback is a process where, under certain circumstances, consumers can ask their card 
issuer (in this case Barclays) to reverse payments made on their card. The process is 
voluntary and is run by the card scheme, which also sets the rules around when 
chargebacks are allowed, and the various requirements of the parties involved. The 
chargeback process involves the card issuer requesting a refund on the card holders behalf, 
through the card scheme. They will often temporarily credit the card holder with the disputed 
amount while the claim is ongoing. The merchant then has the opportunity to give a defence 
within a certain time frame. If it does, the card issuer then has to decide whether to continue 
with the claim on the card holders behalf or end matters there. If it decides to continue with 
the claim for the cardholder it then needs to send the matter to arbitration. The card scheme 
will ultimately decide whether a refund should be processed. Importantly though, 
chargebacks are decided based on the scheme rules on disputes and whether these are 
valid in line with the scheme requirements. This is not necessarily based on the relative 
merits of a dispute between a cardholder and the merchant theyve paid. Having a valid 
reason for potentially instigating a chargeback does not mean it is definitely going to 
succeed. 
Here Barclays felt, based on what Mr C said, that it had reason to request a chargeback, so 
did so on his behalf, using the evidence he had provided. It didnt receive a refund from the 
merchant that it subsequently returned. It provided a temporary credit to Mr C while it 
awaited a refund through the card scheme.
The merchant had a set period of time to defend this claim. The scheme rules set out what 
was required as part of the defence. The merchant provided the relevant information within 
the required time.So as the claim had been defended the only option available for Barclays to continue to 
assist Mr C was to potentially escalate the chargeback claim to arbitration. But it was up to 
Barclays to decide if it thought this was appropriate. Cases where a merchant defends a 
claim are not automatically progressed to arbitration.
Barclays asked Mr C for additional information to decide if it felt it should continue to support 
the claim. It asked that he respond within ten days as it had limited time to decide if the 
matter should be taken further and, if appropriate, request that. So up to the point Barclays 
wrote to Mr C on 26 March 2019, I dont think it had done anything wrong.
Mr C sent a response to Barclays. Ive seen a copy of that response and evidence that it was 
provided in the timeframe requested. What shouldve happened next is Barclays shouldve 
reviewed this information and decided if it would continue to support the claim. But Barclays 
failed to review this, and the chargeback was not taken further. It has acknowledged that its 
failure to review this information was an error and I agree. What I need to decide is what the 
fair way to address this error is and whether it meant that Mr C lost out on a refund he would 
otherwise have received.
Barclays not considering the response meant that the chargeback ended at the stage it had 
reached and did not go to arbitration. Mr C has said that Barclays actions took away his right 
for the matter to go to arbitration. But as I mentioned previously the chargeback process is 
voluntary. It is down to the card issuer to decide whether to proceed with a claim on a card 
holders behalf  so its not something Mr C had a right to or couldve made Barclays do at 
this stage, if Barclays didnt think it was appropriate. We would expect Barclays to decide 
fairly based on the information available if it thought the claim would succeed and progress 
this if appropriate.
Barclays didnt review the information at the time. But it has done so as part of this 
complaint. Barclays has said that it thinks, based on the information provided by both 
parties, the chargeback was unlikely to be successful.
Barclays has said this was based on the description of the car within the sales invoice and 
the faults Mr C has listed not coming to light until a couple of months after the car was 
purchased. I know Mr C disputes if the car shouldve been described in the terms it was, and 
the legality of this, and feels that the faults were due to the existing condition of the car. But 
Barclays isnt required to decide the legal merits of any dispute Mr C had with the merchant. 
It simply needed to establish if, based on its experience and knowledge of the chargeback 
process, it felt that the case would succeed if it went to arbitration. And it felt here that it 
would be difficult to prove the position at the time the car was purchased  as this dispute is 
largely based on contrasting opinions of the facts. And as a result, it didnt think the 
chargeback was likely to succeed. So, it says that even if it had reviewed the response it has 
said it wouldnt have put the claim forward for arbitration. 
As Ive said Barclays feels the claim was unlikely to succeed at arbitration because it was 
difficult to evidence the position at the point of sale. And, while both Mr C and the merchant 
have provided their recollections, the other evidence from the point of sale is limited. So 
overall, I dont think Barclays conclusion  that this would be difficult to prove and therefore 
in its opinion was unlikely to succeed  is unreasonable. 
 
And even if the matter had gone to arbitration for much the same reason, given the 
conflicting testimonies and the limited other information, I cant reasonably say on balance 
that the claim wouldve succeeded. So, even if I disagreed with Barclays and felt in the 
circumstances it shouldve put the matter forward for arbitration, which for the avoidance of doubt I do not, I dont think I can reasonably say that this wouldve resulted in Mr C getting 
his money back.
So in summary, I dont think the error by Barclays of failing to review the letter Mr C sent it 
the start of April 2019 can be said to have caused him not to receive a refund of the £1,435 
that he otherwise wouldve received. This is because on balance I think Barclays wouldve 
elected not to put the matter to arbitration even if it had reviewed the submissions. So, I cant 
reasonably ask Barclays to cover that loss.
The error made by Barclays has understandably caused Mr C some upset  particularly 
because he thought hed missed out on the opportunity to claim a full refund. But while I 
know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr C, I think the £230 already paid by 
Barclays is a fair way to address this. So, I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman