DRN-3843002
The complaint
Mr C has complained that when he makes a payment to his credit card from his current 
account, the money is taken from his current account immediately, but it doesnt show up as 
paid on his credit card until a day or so later.
Mr C is unhappy with the response that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax has 
provided.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he was unable to see that Halifax had 
done anything wrong or had acted incorrectly, so didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything that has been provided, Im unable to say that Halifax has 
acted unfairly. I will explain why.
Halifax has explained that when Mr C makes a payment to his credit card, although the 
money is actually transferred fairly quickly, it has explained that there is a lag between the 
money reaching the credit card account, and the payment appearing on the credit card 
transaction list. I understand it is this delay specifically that Mr C is unhappy with. 
However, as explained by the adjudicator, our service is not the regulator. Because of this 
Im unable to instruct Halifax to change or improve its systems. As such, whilst I recognise 
that Mr C wants the transaction list to be updated as soon as his money has reached his 
credit card account, I am unable to instruct Halifax to change its systems to achieve this. All I 
can do is consider whether Halifax has dealt with his credit card payments fairly and in line 
with the account terms and conditions.
The credit card terms and conditions say that when a payment (to the Halifax credit card) is 
made via online banking, it will be credited to the credit card account within two hours, and at 
the latest by the close of the next working day. Halifax has also provided further information 
to show that, if the payment qualifies as a Faster Payment transaction, the money is 
transferred to the credit card account within two hours if the payment is made before 10pm, 
and within four hours if the payment is made between 10pm and midnight.
Based on everything I have seen, Im satisfied that the payments Mr C makes towards his 
credit card are being credited to his account correctly and in the timescales allowed under 
the terms and conditions of his account. So, whilst I appreciate that Mr C wants the 
transaction list updated in real time, Im satisfied that Mr C has not lost out by the lag in 
payments appearing on the transaction list.
Turning now to how quickly transactions appear on the transaction list, Halifax has said that 
the delay in the payment appearing occurs simply because that is how its system has been 
designed to operate. It said that, if the payment is made before 6pm, then the transaction 
should show up on the credit card transaction list within 24 hours. But if made after 6pm (or 
on a weekend) it can take up to 48 hours for the payment to appear.
Ultimately, if Mr C is unhappy with the lag in payments to his credit card showing up on the 
transaction list, he is of course free to change credit card provider. But I cant say that 
Halifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably because of this. Afterall, the delay is not 
unreasonable, and more importantly, it does not actually affect (or reflect) how quickly the 
money is being transferred to the credit card account. 
I appreciate that Mr C will be disappointed by this decision. Particularly as he wants a very 
detailed explanation as to why Halifax has designed its systems in a way that doesnt update 
the transaction list on his credit card in real time. But ultimately, it is beyond the remit of this 
service to instruct Halifax how it should update the transaction list on its credit cards.   
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, Im unable to say that Halifax has done anything wrong 
or acted unfairly. I therefore am unable to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman