DRN-1209141
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in July 2004 in connection with an unsecured personal loan. Mr and Mrs B say 
Nationwide Building Society mis-sold the policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a loan for £8,000 with Nationwide in July 2004. At the same time they 
purchased a PPI policy that covered Mr B in the event that he wasn't working due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagree so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided to reject this complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide says that all its PPI sales were non-advised - it says it didnt provide advice or a 
recommendation; it sold the PPI policy on an information only basis. And in the absence of 
any testimony from Mr and Mrs B on this subject, Ive determined this complaint on the basis 
that Nationwide didnt provide advice.
This means that Nationwide didnt need to ensure that the policy was suitable for them, but it 
did need to provide clear information so they could make an informed choice about what 
they were buying. If adequate information was provided, it was Mr and Mrs Bs responsibility 
to assess whether or not the cover met their needs, taking into account any benefits or 
policies that they already had, before making the decision to purchase the policy. If adequate 
information wasnt provided, I need to decide whether this information would have influenced 
their decision to take the policy.
Mr and Mrs B took out an unsecured personal loan of £8,000. At the same time a PPI policy 
covering Mr B was purchased that provided accident and sickness cover for the term of the 
loan and also 12 months cover in the event of unemployment. It also provided life cover.
Was the PPI policy optional?
Nationwide says that the documentation from the time of the sale shows that the PPI policy 
was optional.I dont know what Nationwides representative said during the telephone discussion on that 
day in 2004. And without a recording of the discussion its much harder to come to a clear 
view on exactly what was said during that conversation that took place more than 15 years 
ago. I have taken into account Mr and Mrs Bs recollections, but Im mindful of the fact the 
passage of time is likely to create difficulties in recalling exactly what was said during a 
telephone call which took place all those years ago.
Ive considered this matter carefully, but based on the documentary evidence Ive seen, I 
dont think theres sufficient evidence for me to say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional and that Mr and Mrs B had a choice about buying it.
The loan agreement that they signed in July 2004 details the costs of the policy under a 
heading Optional Credit Insurance. And based on my knowledge of Nationwides loan 
documentation from this time, the Loan Agreement Terms and Conditions also stated, You 
understand that the credit insurance is Optional. And I understand that a personal loan 
welcome booklet would also have been issued to Mr and Mrs B and that this makes 
reference to the optional nature of the insurance.
Ive noted that the loan agreement is pre-populated and Ive considered this carefully. But on 
the basis that this sale took place on the telephone, and the fact that the loan details and 
Mr and Mrs Bs personal details are typed, I think that the sales representative simply 
completed the paperwork on-screen to reflect the conversation before posting it to them to 
sign.
So while I accept its possible they were told they had to have PPI, I am not persuaded there 
is sufficient weight of evidence for me to conclude that this was more likely. I consider it just 
as likely that the policy was presented as being optional and that they chose to take it out as 
they had some interest in protecting their loan payments.
Did Nationwide give clear, fair and not misleading information?
At the time of the sale Mr B was working, resident in the UK and in good health. So he was 
eligible for the cover. Mr B told us he was employed and in good health - so he wasnt 
caught by any of the significant limitations and exclusions on the cover relating to health or 
unusual employment circumstances.
Information about the costs was provided on the loan agreement. It set out the separate cost 
of the loan and the PPI, what interest was applicable to each element and the monthly 
repayment that applied respectively. So I think that the cost of the policy was made clear. I 
also note the policy provided a pro-rata rebate of the single premium amount upon 
cancellation. So Mr and Mrs B were not disadvantaged if they wanted to repay the loan early 
or cancel the PPI policy. Furthermore, the term of the policy (and the protection offered) 
matched the term of the loan so the policy was flexible to meet their changing needs and 
circumstances.
I accept its possible Mr and Mrs B may feel their information needs may not have been 
properly met, but Im not persuaded that they were disadvantaged to the extent that they 
would most likely have acted differently and declined the cover had they been more fully 
informed about it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman