DRN-3930410
The complaint
Mr L complains QIC Europe Ltd has unfairly declined his Buildings Insurance claim.
Mr L is being represented in his complaint by Ms B.
All references to QIC also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy defines a storm as having minimum wind speeds of 55mph. From 
reviewing weather reports at the time, I cant see storm conditions were met.
Ms B said weather stations are not an exact indicator of the wind speed at the 
property. Shes provided an article showing a tree that collapsed in the area around 
the time of the incident. 
While theyre not in the exact location of the property, I find the weather reports to be 
a fairly accurate representation of the weather conditions around the time. And 
looking at the approximate location of the tree, while I can see it is closer than the 
nearest weather station, it is still around 3 miles from Mr Ls property. So, Im not 
persuaded this meant storm conditions were present.
However, as the damage reported could be caused by a storm, Ive also thought 
about whether the damage reported is the dominant cause of the damage. 
QIC said the dominant cause of the damage was poor fixing of the fascia  due to 
rotted timbers. Rot is something that generally occurs gradually, which is excluded 
from cover under the terms of the policy. QIC have relied on this to decline the claim.
Mr L has provided a quote from a roofer which says the damage is due a storm. But 
this is a quote, not a report. And doesnt provide any further detail on the damage.
Ive also considered the mortgage report provided by Mr L. It comments on the 
general condition of the front of the home and highlights areas requiring attention. 
But doesnt offer any specific information about the damaged areas. So I dont think 
this is relevant here.
QIC provided several photos showing the condition of the whole roof. I can see there 
are several timbers in poor condition, with splitting and signs of rot, consistent with 
what QIC has said. 
Mr L has said the rot could have occurred due the timbers being exposed following 
the damage. But considering the photos  and the consistency of the condition 
throughout the roof, Im more persuaded the damage has happened in the way QIC 
has described. 
I appreciate Ms B feels as the damage happened at the time of the storm it means 
the storm must have been the dominant cause of the damage. But, at this service 
were interested in the underlying cause of the damage. And for the reasons Ive set 
out, Im persuaded this is gradual wear and tear as set out by QIC. The storm didnt 
cause wear and tear but has just served to highlight it.  And, if the wear and tear 
wasnt present, I dont think the weather conditions recorded wouldve caused the 
type of damage. 
I appreciate Mr L is unhappy about QICs concerns about whether he was residing at 
the property. Im aware these concerns have now been resolved, but from reviewing 
the information available to me, I dont think QIC have acted unreasonably here, and 
I cant see he has been treated any differently from any other consumer.
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman