DRN-4349798
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Monzo Bank Ltd.
She says that Monzo didnt do enough to protect her when she became the victim of a scam 
and would like Monzo to refund her the money she has lost.
What happened
Mrs Ss husband was approached via WhatsApp by a supposed recruitment company 
offering employment in the form of task-based marketing.
Mrs Ss husband checked the company online and it appeared to be a legitimate recruitment 
agency  whereas in fact it was using a very similar name to an actual recruitment agency in 
an attempt to appear genuine.
Mrs S and her husband were persuaded to pay money, via cryptocurrency, to the 
recruitment agency in order to buy tasks to complete and then earn commission. They were 
given access to a professional looking portal, and Mrs Ss husband began with a small 
payment.
Mrs Ss husband was first to pay the scammer and was paid out some commission (a 
common tactic used by scammers to reassure and persuade victims to part with more 
money).
As they were satisfied with the legitimacy of the company, Mrs S then paid the scammers 
one payment of £10,000 to access the higher levels of commission available. 
However, once this payment was made, and Mrs S completed the tasks, she was unable to 
access her supposed commission, but was being pressured to part with more money.  
Mrs S then realised they had been scammed and complained to Monzo.
Monzo didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint, so she brought the complaint to this Service. Our 
Investigator looked into things and thought that the complaint should be upheld. However, 
they also said that Mrs S hadnt taken enough care, and so liability should be split between 
Mrs S and Monzo,
Mrs S accepted this, but Monzo did not, so the complaint had been passed to me to make a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
Investigator.  Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute here that Mrs S has been the victim of a scam and has lost money as a 
result. However, even when it is clear that a scam has taken place, and an individual has 
been tricked out of their money, it doesnt necessarily follow that a business will need to 
refund the money that has been lost.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I 
have taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs S when she authorised payment from her account or whether it could and should have 
done more before processing the payment. 
Did Monzo act fairly and reasonably in Mrs Ss case?
Ive considered Mrs Ss transactions in the lead up to the scam taking place and similar to 
our Investigator I think that the payment of £10,000 was significantly out of character 
considering the way she usually used her account. 
With this in mind, Monzo should reasonably have contacted Mrs S to establish whether the 
transaction posed any possibility of placing her in financial harm before processing it. But it 
did not do so. Had Monzo contacted Mrs S, I wouldve expected it to have questioned her 
about the payment  including what she was making the payment for and surrounding 
context and to proceed accordingly. The intention being to disrupt or uncover a potential 
fraud or scam.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs S was coached by the scammer or provided with 
a cover story as to what she was doing  so I think that she would have explained to Monzo 
that that she was making the payment as part of her employment to purchase tasks and 
receive commission.This alone shouldve been a red flag to Monzo  and I think its likely that it would have 
immediately recognised this as a scam and provided Mrs S with a meaningful warning that 
what she had told it had all the hallmarks of a scam. 
Had it done so, I dont think that Mrs S would have ignored such a warning  and I dont 
think that she would have continued with the payment she was making. 
So, I think that Monzo missed an opportunity to prevent Mrs Ss loss from the outset. 
However, while I do consider that Monzo could have prevented the payment had it acted like 
I would expect, I do also need to consider if Mrs S should bear some responsibility for the 
loss here too, by way of contributory negligence.
I understand that Mrs S and her husband were taken in by the scammer, and they thought 
they had been given an employment contract via WhatsApp. Mrs S has explained they were 
unfamiliar with UK employment practices and that as her husband had been paid 
commission, they thought that they were dealing with a legitimate company.
While I do understand that Mrs S may not be completely aware of UK employment practices, 
I think Mrs S and her husband could have done more due diligence than they did. They were 
contacted out of the blue offering employment when they werent actively seeking work  
and the amount of money Mrs S was asked to pay in order to purchase tasks should also 
have been a further red flag, I know that they did check the name of the scammer which was 
similar to that of a legitimate company, but had they taken time to conduct more thorough 
checks they would have seen that this was an attempt to clone a legitimate company  - and 
that task based scams such as the one they fell victim to are very common. 
So, I think it is fair that responsibility for the loss be shared between Mrs S and Monzo. 
Putting things right
Monzo Bank Ltd should pay Mrs S 50% of the payment she made to the scam. 
I calculate this to be £5,000.
On top of this, Monzo Bank Ltd should pay Mrs S 8% interest on this amount from the date 
of payment until settlement is made (minus any lawfully deductible tax). 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman