DRN-2858211
The complaint
Mr A complains about advice provided by St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc 
(SJP) to invest £40,000 into an EIS.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A had previously taken advice from SJP. In September 2014, further advice was 
sought about the proceeds from the sale of an investment property. Mr A says that ethical 
investments were important to him and he was looking to invest for capital growth. The tax 
benefits were not a concern at the time. The adviser did not make it clear that the capital 
was at risk and did not explain the risk of funds being tied in beyond three years. Mr A 
maintains that the investment was mis-sold. It is now valued around £1,000. Mr A also raised 
concerns about the service provided by the adviser after he had invested.
SJP say that the recommendation was suitable for Mr A as inheritance tax planning and tax 
relief had been important to him. They rely upon the notes from the time and the suitability 
letter, which say that Mr A was willing to take more risk with this investment to achieve tax 
advantages. SJP also point to the information memorandum from the EIS provider that was 
given to Mr A at the time, which also explained that EIS are high risk. Whilst the underlying 
investment hadnt performed as hoped, Mr A had received significant tax advantages with 
over £23,000 having been saved. SJP offered £250 for the trouble and upset caused by the 
delay in responding to Mr As complaint. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She thought Mr A had wanted tax relief and the 
investment formed part of his inheritance tax planning. Our investigator thought that Mr A 
had indicated a higher tolerance for risk for this particular product and that was expressly 
recorded in the suitability letter. An investment of £40,000 was around 10% of Mr As assets 
and it wasnt unreasonable to invest that to offset his tax liabilities. Overall, she didnt think 
SJP had done anything wrong. 
Mr A disagrees with the view. He says the investment did not reflect his investment priorities 
at the time and the documentation did not adequately represent the verbal advice he was 
given. He raises concern that the adviser refused to engage in any discussion about the 
advice. Mr A says the offer of £250 in compensation is an insult.
The matter has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont underestimate Mr As strength of feeling about this matter, given the extent of capital 
losses sustained and I understand the situation will have caused a great deal of distress. It 
isnt fair and reasonable to make an assessment with the benefit of hindsight, so I have 
focused on the documents and the parties recollection of events from the time, in order to 
reach a decision. Given that the advice took place almost seven years ago, Ive borne in 
mind that memories can fade with time.
Its common ground that Mr A was retired at the time and held joint assets of £1,120,299 
with Mrs A. Mr and Mrs A held an investment bond of around £60,000 and each had ISAs. 
Advice was sought following the sale of an investment property, which had realised 
£450,000. Mr A says his main objective was capital growth in an ethical investment. Tax was 
not an important feature for him. He recalled the adviser spoke about tax benefits but this 
was not something he had asked for. He maintains that he had a low to medium attitude to 
risk.
Ive also considered the confidential financial review which includes records of meeting notes 
from September 2014 and October 2014 made by the adviser at the time and the content of 
the suitability letter. 
Attitude to risk
The meeting notes from September 2014 record that Mr A had a medium attitude to risk but 
he was willing to accept a higher degree of risk for this investment. The suitability letter also 
expressly records Mr A as being a medium risk investor on SJPs risk spectrum, defined as:
You want your capital to keep pace with inflation and are investing for at least five years. 
You are comfortable with the cost of your capital being invested in equities and property, 
some of it overseas. You realise that there may be significant falls in the value of your 
investments and that accepting this risk gives you the potential to achieve better long-term 
returns.
I dont think thats inconsistent with Mr As experience of investing in international bonds and 
ISAs. The adviser acknowledged that Mr As attitude to risk was high for the EIS investment, 
which differed from the above. It was recorded that there had been a detailed discussion 
about the change in attitude to risk which was driven by Mr As desire to diversify and invest 
in higher risk funds with this £40,000.
Theres nothing to show that Mr A disagreed with this assessment at the time and it is 
consistent with the meeting notes prior to the letter having been written. Mr A was also 
provided with the information memorandum from the EIS, which expressly stated that 
investment should only be made if the risk of losing the entire investment could be borne by 
the investor. So, I consider that it is more likely than not that Mr A was willing to take a 
higher risk at the time.
Suitability
The meeting notes refer to the sale of an investment property and record that Mr and Mrs 
were looking to hold over some of their capital gains. The overall objectives were to reduce 
inheritance tax liability, preserve capital (looking for capital growth over the longer term) and 
to mitigate as much income tax as possible. Energy efficiency appealed to Mr A and he was 
keen to diversify his portfolio. He planned to exit after approximately three years.The client review showed a history of regular gifting to the children, as part of Mr and Mrs As 
inheritance tax planning. They had also taken advice previously to set up an international 
regular investment bond in trust to benefit their children and grandchildren in the future, 
again so as to mitigate inheritance tax. This was in addition to taking advice about an 
investment bond for themselves and individual ISA investments. In my view, taking advice 
about an EIS scheme was consistent with inheritance tax being an ongoing consideration for 
Mr A. 
The suitability letter also focused on income tax mitigation and reduction of inheritance tax, 
providing figures for that tax relief. Other types of tax advantage schemes were considered 
and discounted with reasons. The adviser highlighted that Mr A felt strongly about the 
renewable energy sector and wished to invest 100% into it, despite the adviser explaining 
that he would usually recommend no more than 5% in any one sector. The desire to invest in 
this sector is consistent with Mr As recollection that an ethical investment had been very 
important to him at the time. I think this also shows that he was involved in the decision-
making process.
Further, the notes from October 2014 (after the suitability letter was written but before the 
investment was made) show that consideration was also given to the benefits of deferring 
capital gains tax (said to be in the region of £81,000 from the sale of the property) by utilising 
an EIS with possible further, rolling investment. The two-year timeframe for inheritance tax 
was also addressed. Again the investment structure was said to meet Mr As investment 
ideology.
In light of the totality of this evidence, I consider that it is more likely than not that inheritance 
tax and tax mitigation were important factors for Mr A. If this had not been the case, I would 
have expected Mr A to have raised this matter with the adviser once the suitability letter was 
received. 
Ive also seen that Mr A was looking for capital growth over the medium term. The 
investment strategy was participation in asset-based infrastructure investments in the 
renewable energy field. The investment timeline was likely to be closer to four years 
(information memorandum). So, there was potential for growth over the medium term, but 
that was subject to this type of investment (EIS) being high risk. As addressed above, the 
balance of evidence shows that this was a risk Mr A was willing to take for this particular 
investment. Ive seen that Mr A also signed an EIS-Client Declaration, which said EIS were 
high risk and were only suitable for clients who could afford to lose money.
Mr A held joint accessible funds of £408,600 in addition to his pension income and assets 
held in the investment bond and ISA. The adviser gave consideration to Mr As capacity for 
loss, with the suitability letter recording that a fall in the value of the EIS investment would 
not have a significant impact on his standard of living.
Mr A was looking to invest for the medium term (5-10 years) and whilst the adviser explained 
that the investment would be for around 3 years, it was stated in the suitability letter that 
there could be delays investing the funds and delays in selling the investment. So, I cant 
see that SJP made any guarantees that the capital investment would be returned at the 
three-year point. This was confirmed in the information memorandum, which stated that the 
timing of any exit could not be guaranteed. On balance, Im satisfied that Mr A understood 
that capital would only be returned once the underlying investments had been sold. Thats 
supported by the EIS Declaration he signed, which highlighted that EIS are illiquid and might 
not be able to be sold at the point an investor wished.
Looking at all these factors in the round, I do not consider that the recommendation was 
unsuitable for Mr A. Mr A invested around 9% of his investable funds and had the capacity to lose this capital. The investment met his objectives of tax mitigation with the potential for 
growth. Overall, I dont think it exposed him to more risk than he was willing to take.
SJP have confirmed that Mr As adviser retired and Mr A was provided with another adviser, 
who later resigned. I dont doubt this caused distress, but theres nothing to show that SJP 
did anything wrong. Ive also noted that Mr A did not have an ongoing advisory agreement in 
place. So I cant reasonably say he has been treated unfairly. SJP have acknowledged 
delays in responding to the complaint and have offered £250 in compensation.
Ive thought carefully about this matter, but given the above, I cant fairly say that SJP has 
done anything wrong. Its now for Mr A to decide whether or not to accept £250 offered by 
SJP. As our investigator has explained, Mr A may wish to consider any entitlement to loss 
relief.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but for the reasons given, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman