DRN-3476038
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund payments made 
towards what they say is an investment scam. 
Although the loss comes from a joint account, for ease of reading and as hes done most of 
the correspondence, Ill mostly only refer to Mr R where I mean both him and Mrs R. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2017 Mr R says he was the victim of an 
investment scam. He made payments to a firm Ill refer to as G. Im aware that payments 
were also made from other accounts Mr R holds, but this complaint is solely about the debit 
card payments from his joint NatWest account. 
The payments relevant to this complaint are two debit card payments totalling £6,000 which 
were made in December 2017. And in January 2018 there was a credit back into Mr Rs 
account from G for £2,010.26. 
Mr R says when he had problems making withdrawals, he concluded that G were operating 
a scam and he asked NatWest to help him get his money back. He also says that NatWest 
should have pursued a chargeback as G could never have provided the trading services 
they purported to as they werent regulated to do so.
 
Ultimately NatWest declined to offer any refund. In summary they said Mr R didnt have the 
required evidence for a successful chargeback. Mr R complained and the matter was later 
referred to our service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should 
be upheld. He broadly supported NatWests position. Mr R disagreed and asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
In May 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not intending to 
uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for Mr R, so Ill explain why.
In his most recent submissions to our service Mr R has suggested that the payments 
relevant to this complaint were unauthorised. Hes explained that he installed software on his 
computer which allowed the agents from G to access it. So the first thing I need to establish 
is whether its more likely than not that the payments were authorised or unauthorised. 
Under the relevant regulations, for a payment to be authorised there must be both 
authentication and consent. Im satisfied that the payments were authenticated (that is they 
were processed by using the card details). But I also need to think about whether Mr R 
consented to the payments on his card. There is no requirement that the payments went 
where Mr R was expecting or that the amounts involved matched. If Mr R knew payments 
were occurring that is sufficient for consent. 
Overall, I think these were authorised payments. I say this for the following reasons:
In his letter of complaint to NatWest Mr R said I authorised the transactions yet the 
merchant never did nor could have done what was described on their website.
The focus of the majority of Mr Rs complaint was initially the chargeback process, 
had the payments been unauthorised or unrecognised I think he would have made 
more of this at the time.
Mr R has referenced being tricked into making the payments, this would indicate that 
he knew they were happening.
A third-party having access to Mr Rs computer and online banking doesnt 
necessarily assist with making debit card transactions (which would generally need 
the card information unlike a faster payment or bank transfer which would normally 
be done through online banking.)
Mr R also says that NatWest should have intervened in his debit card spending and that they 
didnt do enough to protect him. Ive considered this, but Im not persuaded that NatWest 
were wrong to process the payments at the times they were made. Whilst this was more 
than Mr R typically spent on his debit card  I dont think the payments were so unusual that 
its reasonable to have expected NatWest to have intervened. I also have to keep in mind 
that these transactions took place in 2017. And whilst NatWest have long standing 
obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, it also 
wouldnt be fair to retrospectively apply standards that have since become more common. 
That being said, it isnt unusual for there to be occasional spending of larger than usual 
amounts for one off items or investments.
Im aware that in 2018 there were warnings about G published by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA- UK Regulator) and on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International 
Organisation of Securities Commissions. But as this information was published after Mr Rs 
payments had already been made, I dont think NatWest reasonably could have known of 
potential problems with payments to G at the time. Overall, I dont think NatWest should 
have done more at the time the payments were made. 
Given the payments were made on a debit card, the only potential option for a refund was 
the chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme and whilst there is no right to a 
chargeback, I generally think it is good practice that one is raised if it has a reasonable 
chance of succeeding. 
NatWest are bound by the card providers scheme rules which in this case is Visa. Being the 
victim of a scam doesnt automatically entitle the cardholder to a refund. Under the most 
applicable chargeback rule Mr R would have needed to have provided dated evidence of 
withdrawal requests from G alongside evidence of an available balance greater than or 
equal to the withdrawal requested (on the same date). I appreciate there are often difficulties 
in obtaining such evidence as systems can be manipulated and access can be withdrawn by 
the merchant. But this doesnt change the requirements of the Visa scheme rules. And as 
Mr R didnt have the required evidence, I think NatWest declining to raise a chargeback was 
a reasonable exercise of their discretion in these circumstances. 
Im of course sorry to hear Mr R lost such a significant amount. Im pleased he was able to 
receive some redress from a building society from which hed made payments to G. But that 
doesnt mean that NatWest too are obliged to provide a refund. 
Neither Mr R nor NatWest responded to my provisional decision. Now both parties have had 
an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman