DRN-4243282
The complaint
Miss H complains that Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market (Quid Market) gave 
her loans which werent affordable for her.
What happened
Miss H took two loans from Quid Market and Ive outlined a summary of her borrowing 
below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountdate loan 
was fundedrepayment 
dateterm 
(months)monthly 
repayment
1 £300.00 11/02/2020 30/04/2020 3 £139.77
gap in lending 
2 £350.00 15/07/2021 30/11/2021 5 £118.65
Following Miss Hs complaint, Quid Market issued its final response letter (FRL). In 
summary, it said it had carried out proportionate checks which showed these loans were 
affordable. Although, Quid Market didnt uphold the complaint, as a gesture of goodwill it 
offered to remove these loans from Miss Hs credit file.
Miss H didnt agree and instead referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who partly upheld it. He didnt think
Quid Market had made an error when loan two was provided. But he upheld Miss Hs
complaint about loan one because the credit search results showed Quid Market she
was having problem managing her money as there was evidence that Miss H had been a 
regular user of payday loans in the months leading up to loan one being granted.
Quid Market disagreed with the adjudicators findings about loan one. It said, Miss H had 
repaid the loan without any issue, and it directed the adjudicator back to the credit check 
summary that was provided in the final response letter.
The adjudicator responded to Quid Market explaining why its comments hadnt changed his
mind. Quid Market said that while Miss H did have other borrowing that alone isnt enough to
say these small loans were irresponsibly provided.
As no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me for a decision. I then issued 
a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to ask Quid Market to do 
no more than it had already offered to do in its final response letter. 
Both parties were asked to provide any further submissions as soon as possible, but in any 
event no later than 11 July 2023.
Neither Miss H nor Quid Market responded to the provisional decision. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quid Market had to assess the lending to check if Miss H could afford to pay back the
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Quid Markets checks could have taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Miss Hs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quid Market should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss H. These factors include:
Miss H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss H.
Quid Market was required to establish whether Miss H could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss H was able to repay
her loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Hs complaint.
Loan 1
Quid Market has shown, as part of the affordability assessment it asked Miss H for details
of her income and expenditure. Miss Hs income has been according to Quid Market
electronically verified and has been recorded as £2,000 each month.
Miss H also declared her monthly outgoings were £945. This left disposable income of around
£1,055 per month. However, following further checks (including a credit search which
I comment on below) Quid Market decreased Miss Hs monthly disposable income to £513.
Even with this smaller disposable income figure there was sufficient disposable income for
Quid Market to believe Miss H could afford the largest planned repayment of around £140.The loan looked affordable.
Before this loan was approved Quid Market also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of the results it received from the credit
reference agency. I want to add that although Quid Market carried out a credit search there
wasnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what
Quid Market couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the
information it received  if necessary.
Quid Market was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit reference
agency. So, Ive looked at the results to see whether there was anything contained
within it that wouldve either prompted Quid Market to have carried out further checks or
possibly have declined Miss Hs application.
From the credit check results provided by Quid Market I can see that Miss H had 17 active
credit accounts, owing these providers just over £8,000 (excluding the mortgage) and Miss H
was utilising 70% of her available revolving credit limits.
Quid Market was given information which showed Miss H had defaulted on at least seven
credit accounts, but these had been recorded as being in default between 2014 and 2017,
which I think was too long before this loan was approved to have given Quid Market cause
for concern.
However, it knew that Miss H had at least a few Home Credit loan accounts outstanding as
well as one unsecured loan, one loan marked as an advance against income (so a payday
loan) and two other loans recorded as being from a Finance House. The repayment
towards these loans each month was likely to be around £479. On top of this, Miss H had one
credit card on which she owed around £1,100 but this was well within the credit limit.
So, its likely, that some of Miss Hs current outstanding loans were payday loans  which
could indicate there was a problem in Miss H being able to repay credit without the need to
borrow further. Further concerns ought to have been realised when looking at the closed
accounts, it seems that Miss H had been a regular user of payday loans for the previous six
months with around three such accounts being repaid in that time.
Ive carefully considered the adjudicators reasoning as to why the complaint about loan one
ought to be upheld. And having considered the results in the round, I dont think this
wouldve prompted Quid Market to have declined the application. I say this because while
there was a history of Miss H had repaid loans without any obvious problems. I also have to
consider that this was a relatively small loan, over a short period of time and Miss H was a
new customer of Quid Market.
But I do think the results ought to have put Quid Market on alert, that perhaps Miss Hs
finances werent in a great position, after all it knew she was a regular user of payday loans
and had payday, unsecured loans and home credit loans outstanding at the time when she
applied for loan one. So, I do think, this ought to have led Quid Market to have carried out
further checks.
Therefore, I think it needed to gain a fuller understanding of Miss Hs current financial position
and the reasons why she was returning for further borrowing. In order to make sure this loan
was affordable and sustainable.
This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for evidence of her outgoings,
looking at bank statements and/or collecting any other documentation it felt it needed to
obtain to have satisfied itself the loan was affordable and sustainable for Miss H. This mightve
helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other information
that Quid Market mightve needed to consider about Miss Hs financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loan, I have to be
satisfied that had Quid Market carried out what further checks it wouldve likely discoveredthat Miss H couldnt afford it, or Quid Market was given evidence that indicated the loan was
unsustainable for her in some other way.
Miss H hasnt provided a copy of her credit file, bank statements or any other documentation
covering the period leading up to the loan being advanced. Without anything further, I cant
be sure what Quid Market may have seen had it carried out better checks. So, I cant fairly
uphold the complaint about the loan.
Im therefore intending not to uphold Miss Hs complaint about loan one.
Loan 2
Its worth saying here that there was a significant break of around 14 months between Miss H
repaying loan one and returning for loan two. Given this significant gap, it was reasonable for
Quid Market to have treated Miss Hs application afresh and if she were a new customer. So,
while this was the second loan Miss H had taken, in was, in effect loan one in a new chain of
lending and Ive kept that in mind while thinking about the checks Quid Market carried out.
The same checks were carried out before this loan was approved, as Quid Market had
carried out for loan one. Miss H declared the same income of £2,000 per month and she
declared total outgoings of £1,030. This left £970 per month in disposable income.
As before, Quid Market carried out further checks and this time it decreased Miss Hs
disposable income to £245. This was because it had increased the amount of credit
commitments and to take account of a joint mortgage Miss H had. Miss H had declared credit
commitments of £50 whereas Quid Market had calculated them to be £264.
Based solely on the income and expenditure information Quid Market couldve been
confident that Miss H would be in a position to afford her repayments.
A credit search was also carried out, this time Miss Hs overall debt had decreased to around
£7,000. This time she had 16 active accounts and no new defaulted accounts. Miss H was
also utilising a smaller percentage of her revolving credit balance at 53%.
This time, there was only one outstanding loan costing Miss H £20 per month. She had
recently opened a couple of credit card accounts and a new mail order account. Miss H had
also, since loan one taken on a car lease costing £200 per month. Overall, there wasnt
anything in my view that wouldve led Quid Market to think that she was having difficulties
managing her money or taking out new loans shortly after previous ones had been repaid.
These accounts had also been well maintained.
Overall, for this loan, as a new loan in a new lending chain, Quid Market carried out
proportionate checks which showed it that Miss H could afford to make her loan repayments.
So, I do not uphold her complaint about loan two.
In saying that, Quid Market has made an offer in the final response letter to remove these
loans from Miss Hs credit file. So, on the basis that the offer may still be available
(Quid Market can confirm) then the offer is fair and reasonable in resolution to the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further submissions, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I made in the provisional decision. 
I still think, Quid Market ought to have carried out further checks before loan one was 
approved, but I cant what it may have seen had better checks been carried out. I also do not uphold the complaint about loan two because proportionate checks were 
carried out which showed Quid Market that Miss H would be able to afford her repayments. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, I do no uphold Miss Hs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman