DRN-3188110
The complaint
Mr D is complaining about advice given to him by True Bearing Ltd in 2010 in connection 
with his self invested personal pension (SIPP). 
What happened
Mr D was advised in June 2010 to switch his existing personal pensions to a SIPP. The 
suitability report said Mr Ds main objective was achieving financial independence by
age 55. It was anticipated this would be achieved through the sale of his business within the 
next five years. The report said that Mr D had been unhappy with the volatility and 
performance of his existing pension plans and wanted to have more control over investment 
decisions. Mr D was described as having a cautious attitude to investment risk, although at 
later points of advice hed been assessed as having a 6 or 7 out of 10 (medium - high) 
attitude to investment risk. 
The investments recommended for Mr Ds SIPP included unregulated collective investment 
schemes (UCIS). £25,000 was invested in the Brandeaux Student Accommodation Fund 
and £20,000 in the New Earth Solutions Recycling Fund. 
 
In April 2011 a True Bearing UCIS client review was completed. It detailed that Mr D had 
approximately 25% of his SIPP portfolio in UCIS and under 15% of his overall investible 
wealth in UCIS. On the same day Mr D signed self certified sophisticated investor and high 
net worth individual statements. 
Over the following years, several recommendations were provided for Mr Ds SIPP. Further 
funds were also added to the pension over time. 
The New Earth Fund failed and the SIPP provider also entered administration. Those issues 
triggered Mr Ds complaints about the advice hed been given and what he considered were 
poor returns.  
True Bearing didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. And it said that some parts of the complaint 
had been made too late  more than six years after the advice had been given. 
Our investigator didnt agree. He said we could consider all of Mr Ds complaint. Mr D was
complaining about advice given in 2010. Hed complained in June 2019, more than six years
later. But the investigator thought Mr D had complained within three years of when he ought
reasonably to have become aware he had cause for complaint.
The complaint was referred to me to decide if we could investigate it. I issued a provisional 
jurisdiction decision on 17 August 2021 and a jurisdiction decision on 6 October 2021. For 
the reasons I set out I thought we could consider all aspects of Mr Ds complaint. 
The investigator issued his view about the merits of the complaint on 12 November 2021. He 
upheld the complaint. In summary he said: 
A SIPP wasnt unsuitable for Mr D. He had a preference for structured products and 
he wanted a pension that provided the flexibility to incorporate such investments in 
his pension portfolio. 
The issue was whether the investment recommendations were suitable. Wed look at 
the suitability of the overall portfolio rather than focusing on individual funds. 
Mr Ds SIPP held more UCIS that wed expect to see. Especially if he was a cautious 
investor. But even if his attitude to risk was on the higher side of medium, that 
wouldnt justify a recommendation to include up to a quarter of his SIPP portfolio in 
UCIS. 
The meeting in 2011 was a retrospective assessment, including the completion of the 
two statements. That should have been dealt with before the advice was given and 
not a year later. 
The SIPP portfolio overall was adventurous or high risk. It wasnt suitable for Mr Ds 
circumstances. 
There was an expectation that Mr D would realise a substantial sum from the sale of 
his business in around five years time. But there was uncertainty and risk and until 
the sale had been realised Mr D hadnt got that money. The sale might be derailed. 
Given the inherent risks in selling a private business, it wasnt appropriate to take a 
high level of risk with Mr Ds pension fund as well. 
The investment recommendation, particularly given the high concentration of UCIS, 
was unsuitable. Although the value of Mr Ds pension fund increased over time, that 
didnt rectify the unsuitability of the original recommendation which included high risk 
and illiquid UCIS  including the New Earth Fund which had failed. 
The investigator set out how True Bearing should calculate if Mr D had suffered any 
loss and, if so, pay redress. In addition True Bearing should pay Mr D £300 for the 
upset hed been caused by the unsuitable investment advice.  
True Bearing didnt agree with the investigators findings. It asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. It didnt make any further comments but it referred to is previous submissions and, 
in particular to what it had said on 4 November 2021.
In response to the investigators view, Mr D said hed transferred £175,000 to the SIPP and 
a total of £486,000 was paid in over an eight year period. As at February 2019 his SIPP fund 
was worth £543,000, a gain of £57,000. Based on yields achieved by his new adviser over 
that period, Mr D had calculated that his fund wouldve been worth £828,000, a gain of 
£342,000. Taking into account the gain of £57,000 hed lost out by £285,000. Mr D said he 
understood that wasnt central to our process but hed wanted to share just how badly his 
SIPP fund had performed and how he felt hed been let down by True Bearings adviser. 
The investigator explained that hed set out in his view a methodology for carrying out a loss 
assessment. He didnt know what the result of the calculation would be. If an ombudsman 
upheld the complaint there were limits on how much the ombudsman could award. If a final 
decision was issued upholding the complaint and if fair compensation was more than we 
have power to award, it would be up to the business whether or not it paid anything over that 
amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said above, Ive considered jurisdiction before. But were required to keep jurisdiction 
under review throughout our consideration of a complaint, up to and until we issue a final decision. I note that True Bearing in its letter of 4 November 2011 said it continued to 
disagree with my conclusion that the complaint had been referred in time. 
Ive looked again at what I said in my jurisdiction decision. But I dont see any reason to 
depart from the views Ive expressed previously. Id correct a typing error I made in my 
jurisdiction decision dated 6 October 2021. I said (in the penultimate paragraph on page 7) 
that, if Mr Ds complaint about the New Earth Fund was made in March 2016, the June 2016 
update was irrelevant for the purposes of deciding if Mr Ds complaint had been made within 
three years of when he became (or reasonably ought to have become) aware he had cause 
for complaint. The March 2016 date shouldve read March 2019.
Ive gone on to consider the merits of the complaint. Having done so, I agree with the views 
expressed by the investigator and the reasons he gave as to why Mr Ds complaint should 
be upheld. 
In reaching my decision, Ive considered very carefully all True Bearing has said, including 
the points it made in its letter of 4 November 2021.  
True Bearing noted that Mr D had said, about the New Earth Fund, that it was unsuitable 
because it was an unregulated investment, which he hadnt understood at the time. Ive seen 
that, having recommended the New Earth Fund in 2010, True Bearing took steps the 
following year to draw to Mr Ds attention that it was a UCIS and what that meant. And Mr D 
signed self certified sophisticated investor and high net worth individual statements. 
I agree with the investigator that those steps shouldve been taken in 2010 and so True 
Bearing could be sure, before recommending the New Earth Fund (and the other UCIS) to 
Mr D, that he was an investor to whom UCIS could lawfully be promoted. But, and 
regardless of what Mr D knew about the Fund, including the risks, it was still up to True 
Bearing to ensure that its recommendations were suitable for him. 
I think, in considering suitability, the approach taken by the investigator  to consider the 
SIPP portfolio as a whole  is correct. And its consistent with what True Bearing said in its 
recommendation letter  that there might be times when an individual fund or funds had a 
higher risk rating that Mr Ds overall stated attitude to risk. But the overall risk rating applied 
to all of the combined funds being recommended was still designed to meet the stated 
tolerance. So I agree that the recommendation to invest in the New Earth Fund has to be 
looked at in the context of the overall portfolio and not in isolation. True Bearing says the 
overall portfolio was suitable. 
Mr D had apparently been assessed as having a cautious attitude to risk in respect of his 
pension funds, although later advice indicates that his attitude to risk was somewhat higher. 
In 2010 about £164,000 (after the SIPP set up fee and the charge for True Bearings advice 
had been taken) was to be transferred to the SIPP. True Bearing says that Mr D was happy 
for the New Earth Fund to be included as one relatively modest aspect of his portfolio. 
£20,000 was invested in the New Earth Fund. I think that was a significant amount  about 
12% of Mr Ds SIPP fund. And it wasnt the only UCIS. The original recommendation was 
that £20,000 was invested in the Brandeaux Student Accommodation Fund. But that was 
later revised to £25,000 with a further £20,000 in the New Earth Fund, another UCIS. I dont 
think investing that much of Mr Ds SIPP fund in UCIS was suitable. 
Regardless of any indication Mr D may have given about being comfortable with the 
weighting of the UCIS investments in his SIPP portfolio, and even if True Bearing had given 
risk warnings, it was still up to True Bearing to give Mr D suitable advice. Mr D may also have had strong views of his own as to how his portfolio should be invested 
and a wish that it delivered positive returns regardless of stock market conditions. But it was 
up to True Bearing to make sure that its advice took into account the level of risk Mr D had 
said he was prepared to take and his capacity for loss.  It seems from what True Bearing has 
said that its adviser refused to recommend further UCIS and/or structured products. But 
theres still a problem for True Bearing if what it did recommend was unsuitable. 
I dont think the portfolio was suitable for Mr D. The overall level of risk was higher than hed 
indicated he was prepared to take. Thats especially the case if he was a cautious investor. 
But, even if his attitude to risk was above medium, I think the portfolio still represented too 
much risk. 
I note that the suitability report records that Mr D was on track to reach financial 
independence by age 55 (he was 52 at the time of the advice) and that he didnt need to 
take unnecessary risk with his capital. I think True Bearing shouldve recommended a lower 
risk portfolio of funds. I dont see any reason to think that Mr D wouldnt have accepted that 
advice. Particularly if, as it seems, he did accept advice later on from True Bearing as to why 
further UCIS investment couldnt be recommended. 
I also agree with how the investigator said about how True Bearing needs to redress Mr D. 
Its in line with the approach wed usually take in a case such as this and where we dont 
know exactly how Mr Ds SIPP portfolio wouldve been invested instead and had suitable 
advice been given. 
I dont agree that redress should be limited to a comparison of the performance of the New 
Earth Fund against a suitable benchmark from the date of the initial investment in that Fund 
to the date of the UCIS review meeting. True Bearing didnt tell Mr D in 2011 that investment 
(and Mr Ds portfolio generally) was too high risk and unsuitable or say that he should sell 
his holding in the Fund. 
Ive repeated here the redress suggested by the investigator. Its a formulaic award. We 
havent carried out any calculations. I dont know what, if any, loss Mr D has sustained. But 
in view of what hes suggested his losses might be Ive included a recommendation that if his 
losses exceed the maximum amount of compensation that I can award, True Bearing Ltd 
should pay the balance. But any recommendation wont be binding on True Bearing.
Putting things right  fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr D as close as possible to 
the position hed probably now be in if hed been given suitable advice. I think hed have 
invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what hed have done but Im satisfied 
that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ds circumstances and 
objectives when he invested.
What should True Bearing Ltd do?
To compensate Mr D fairly True Bearing Ltd should:
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, theres a loss and
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no
compensation is payable.
True Bearing Limited should also pay any interest set out below.If there is a loss, True Bearing Ltd should pay into Mr Ds pension plan, to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If True Bearing Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ds pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided 
a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ds actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer 
at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if he wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, True Bearing Ltd should pay Mr D £300 for the upset caused by the unsuitable
investment advice. 
True Bearing Ltd should also provide the details of the calculation to Mr D in a clear, simple 
format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If True Bearing considers that it is required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how 
much it has taken off. It should also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
GPC SIPP mixedFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlementnot applicable
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value
should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. True Bearing Ltd should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension 
provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as 
above.
If True Bearing Ltd is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. True Bearing Ltd may wish to require that 
Mr D provides an undertaking to pay True Bearing Ltd any amount he may receive from the 
investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be 
incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. True Bearing Ltd will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking.Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if True Bearing Limited totals all those payments and deducts 
that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison
given Mr D's circumstances and risk attitude.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000 (in a case such as this which concerns an act or omission before 
1 April 2019 and the complaint was referred to us on or after 1 April 2019), plus any interest 
and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is 
more than £160,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as Ive set out above. My decision is that True Bearing Ltd should pay Mr D the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000. 
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000 I recommend that True Bearing Ltd pays Mr D the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. True Bearing Ltd doesnt 
have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr D can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to get independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint. True Bearing Ltd must redress Mr D as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Lesley SteadOmbudsman