DRN-3654238
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about TSB Bank plc.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr R has explained he discussions with TSB in March and April 2022 and on the 
basis of this opened a TSB ISA account in April 2022. The interest rate was set out to 
him at that time. Mr R he says he asked whether the interest rate would increase if 
the Bank of England Base Rate increased and was told it would. Unfortunately, there 
is no record of this discussion. I have seen the email chain between Mr R and TSB 
with questions about setting up the ISA and these do not raise the issue of a change 
in the Base Rate. Without further evidence, I cannot confirm if Mr R was told that his 
ISA interest rate would increase with any Base Rate increase.
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs ISA account do not state that the interest rate is 
linked to the Base Rate. The terms do say that the interest rate is variable and can 
go up and down. The terms set out the notice provided in the event of a change in 
interest rate.
As the interest rate on Mr Rs ISA isnt linked to the Bank of England Base Rate, I 
cannot say that when this changed, TSB was required to adjust the interest paid. 
Instead any change to the interest rate is a business decision. In this case, TSB has 
explained that it increased the rate of interest on ISAs opened on or after 14 June 
2022. As Mr Rs ISA was opened before this date the interest increase didnt apply. 
While this is disappointing for him, as the same approach has been taken to all ISAs 
opened before 14 June 2022, I cannot say he has been treated unfairly.
Mr R says that TSB admitted he was given the wrong advice. I note the comment in 
TSBs final response letter which says that it is likely Mr R was told the interest rate 
was variable. This is correct. It then says the adviser may not have been clear that 
the rate change is a business decision and not automatically linked to a change in 
the Bank of England Base Rate. Without further evidence of what was said I cannot 
confirm that Mr R was given incorrect advice and while I appreciate there was a 
misunderstanding, I cannot confirm how this arose. 
Mr R says he had multiple calls with TSB and that he was put on hold for long 
periods and didnt receive call backs. TSB has searched its database of calls and 
identified calls taking place in 21 and 30 June. Having listened to these the advisers 
did try to assist Mr R. 
On the call on 30 June, Mr R sets out his concerns about the advice he was given, 
the lack of a call recording at the time he discussed the ISA, and also that the 
response to his complaint suggested the TSB had called him when this hadnt 
happened. While I appreciate Mr R is upset by the service he was provided and 
wants to be compensated I do not require this in this case. I say this because on the 
call the issues were discussed, and the adviser tried to assist Mr R. I have dealt with 
the issue of the comments in the final response letter about the clarity of advice 
above and as I do not have further evidence that Mr R was misadvised, I do not find I 
can award compensation for this. In regard to the comment about Mr R being called, 
this was in regard to giving the complaint outcome and as a letter was also sent, I do 
not think this caused Mr R any material disadvantage or delay. 
While I understand this isnt the outcome Mr R will want, for the reasons set out above, I do 
not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman