DRN-3355234
The complaint
Mrs and Mr L have complained about the advice they were given by Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited (Aviva) to take out two decreasing term assurance policies. They have said they 
were pressured into taking policies that they didnt need. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and were set out in my 
provisional decision, so I am not going to describe them again here.
My provisional decision
My role is to decide if Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably in any way in recommending 
a policy that it shouldnt have. And I dont believe it has done so.
From the information recorded at the time of the 2001 sale I can see that following the 
further advance, Mrs and Mr L had borrowings of approximately £61,000 and the cover 
matched this as well as the term remaining on the borrowing.  In most situations where 
protection for borrowing and critical illness cover is needed, I would expect the advisor to 
recommend a policy that provided the life and critical illness cover for the full liability on a 
decreasing basis. Which is what Mrs and Mr L had. So, I cant that that this recommendation 
was unsuitable. 
I have reservations as to whether Mrs and Mr L should have been recommended to take out 
a whole new policy, rather than a top-up to their existing cover. Aviva have said that this was 
the choice of Mrs and Mr L to have one policy rather than two. However, I am not sure they 
would have chosen that if two policies were cheaper and they were made aware. However, 
due to the time that has passed I cant be sure what Mrs and Mr Ls original policy was 
costing them and they arent able to tell me. Therefore, I cant conclude that they ended up 
paying more to have one standalone policy. 
Mrs and Mr L have said they were pressured into taking the policy out and felt that they 
needed it to obtain the borrowing. But I wasnt at the sales meeting so I cant say with any 
certainty what was discussed and how the policy was presented to them. So, whilst I am 
certainly not disputing what Mrs and Mr L have said, without the evidence to support this 
point I cant uphold this part of the complaint. 
I also have found nothing to confirm Mrs and Mr L were told they had to take the policy as 
part of the lending criteria for the borrowing. Aviva have said it was not a condition of the 
mortgage and I also know from my experience in these products that at this point in time it 
wasnt usual for such policies to be a condition of residential mortgages. So again, in regard 
to this point I cant uphold the complaint either.
Its also worth noting that its not unusual for life and critical illness protection policies to be 
recommended when a large borrowing such as mortgage was being taken out. So, this isnt 
unusual and is seen as a prudent decision given the types of policies in question provide a 
means to pay that borrowing off in one lump sum upon the death or critical illness of the 
policy holder/s, as mentioned above.
Mrs and Mr L have also said that they didnt need this or the later policy as they already had 
protection in place through their employment. However, its important to note that employee 
benefits are not always guaranteed to remain in place if the employment changes. I also 
dont think its unsuitable advice to recommend new cover for a new liability. 
Mrs and Mr L borrowed again in 2003 and from what I can see, had liabilities of £93,000 and 
the decreasing term assurance sold matched this and the term remaining on the borrowing. 
Aviva have said this policy was taken out at the request of Mrs and Mr L and no advice was 
given. However, I am not persuaded that was the case. Although we have limited information 
due to the time that has passed, Mrs and Mr L have said that they were under the 
impression they were being advised as they were in 2001. Aviva have said there was no 
remuneration but havent been able to show they made Mrs and Mr L aware they werent 
advising them. 
However, as for the reasons above and because the cover matched the borrowing, I cant 
say it wasnt a suitable recommendation. It matched the liability and I am not persuaded they 
were pressured into taking it out or that it wasnt needed due to the cover they had through 
their employment. 
Mrs and Mr L have been paid £100 for the time it took Aviva to respond to their complaint. 
Considering this, the length of the delay and Mrs and Mr Ls circumstances at the time, I 
think this amount fairly compensated them for the inconvenience this caused. 
In conclusion, whilst I think it is more likely than not that the 2003 policy was sold with advice 
much like the 2001 policy, I havent seen enough to suggest that either policies were 
unsuitable for Mrs and Mr Ls circumstances at the time. There isnt enough to show they 
were pressured into taking them and I dont think it was enough to say that they already had 
life cover in place through their employment. 
Aviva responded to say that they accepted the findings of the provisional decision and had 
nothing further to add. 
Mrs and Mr L responded to say that they were definitely of the opinion that the 2003 policy 
was an advised sale. They provided a copy of post-sale information which they say 
supported this. 
Mrs and Mr L also provided details of the 2003 further advance and what they say shows 
that life assurance was a condition of this extra borrowing. They stated how it showed life 
assurance was required but not critical illness cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs and Mr L providing further information in response to my provisional decision. However, whilst it supports my finding that the 2003 sale was an advised sale, it 
doesnt change my opinion that neither the 2001 or 2003 policies were mis-sold. 
Mr L has maintained that the borrowing was conditional on the life cover being taken out. 
However, I am not satisfied from the evidence available that this was the case. Mr L has 
pointed to wording such as life cover being required. However, I believe this refers to a 
recommendation and it doesnt mean that Mrs and Mr L had to take the policy out. 
Having said that, as I explained in my provisional decision, lenders do sometimes make life 
cover a requirement and I wouldnt always conclude that was unfair. Customers would be 
able to reject the condition and go elsewhere for the lending. 
Mr L has also said that whilst the lending was conditional on the cover, it wasnt made clear. 
However, as I havent concluded that it was conditional, I dont agree with this point. 
Mrs and Mr L maintain that they didnt need the policies. However, my position remains as 
outlined in my provisional decision. I cant conclude either was unnecessary. There was a 
new liability to protect and the policies matched the outstanding borrowing at the time.
I also dont agree with Mrs and Mr L that they had enough cover through their employment. 
This was new borrowing and it is right to recommend new cover to match it. Their existing 
cover wasnt guaranteed to remain in place if they left their employment. Meaning they would 
have been older and with unprotected borrowing, would have found it harder and more 
expensive to find cover.  
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman