DRN-4314412
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont reimburse £799 that he was deceived 
into paying to a scammer.
What happened
Mr M received a call from a person (the scammer) who claimed to be calling from an online 
business with whom Mr M held an account. The scammer explained that an unknown party 
was trying to fraudulently use his account and explained that Mr M needed to take steps to 
prevent this from happening. 
The scammer told Mr M to download an app onto his phone, which Mr M did, and then 
instructed Mr M to take a series of steps which would protect his account. These steps 
included inputting a verification code of 799, which Mr M did. However, by inputting this 
number, Mr M was in fact authorising a transfer of £799 from his Barclays account to the 
scammer. After the payment was completed, the scammer tried to instruct Mr M to complete 
the steps again, at which time Mr M realised he was in the process of being scammed and 
ended the call.
Mr M contacted Barclays and asked them to recover the £799 hed lost. Barclays provided a 
temporary credit of £799 to Mr M while they investigated his claim. But Barclays concluded 
that Mr M had authorised the payment to the scammer and didnt feel that there was any 
action that they should have reasonably taken which might have prevented the scam from 
happening. Barclays also didnt feel it was possible to recover Mr Ms money for him as he 
would like. Because of this, Barclays declined Mr Ms claim and withdrew the temporary 
credit of £799 from his account. Mr M wasnt happy about this, and so he raised a complaint. 
Barclays responded to Mr M and reiterated that they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by 
processing the £799 transfer as per Mr Ms instruction to do so. And Barclays also confirmed 
that because Mr M had transferred the money to a well-known money transfer company  
from where it had been moved onwards to the scammer  that there werent any avenues 
available to them to recover the £799. Mr M wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems clear to me that Mr M has been the victim of a scam here and has lost £799 as a 
result. And I can appreciate why Mr M would like Barclays to reimburse this £799 to him. 
However, I would only consider instructing Barclays to reimburse that money if I felt Barclays 
could and should acted differently regarding the £799 payment that Mr M instructed. And if I 
felt that any alternative action that Barclays should have taken would, in all likelihood, have 
led to Mr M realising that he was being scammed so that he didnt instruct the payment.
One of this services first considerations in any complaint involving payments being made to 
a scammer is whether the person complaining about the scam authorised the payments that 
were being made. Mr M has said that he wasnt aware that he was making a payment and 
believed that he was inputting verification codes when in fact he was, unbeknownst to him, 
instructing a payment to the scammer.
But when Mr M spoke with our investigator about what happened, he explained that he was 
aware that what he was being asked to do seemed like a payment instruction. And in 
another call with our investigator, Mr M said that he was asked by the scammer to enter 
recipient account details for a payment, but that he wasnt told that any money would be 
leaving his account. Additionally, its notable that Mr M questioned the scammer directly 
about the instructions he was receiving on several occasions, but then proceeded having 
received reassurance from the scammer that he wasnt being scammed.
In consideration of all these points, Im not convinced that Mr M wasnt aware that he was 
instructing a payment as he contends here. And I also feel that Mr M reasonably should 
have been aware that he was instructing a payment, based on what he was being told to do 
and his own clear misgivings about the instructions he received from the scammer.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
that a customer authorises  which as explained above I feel that Mr M did here. This is in 
accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. However, where the customer made the payment because of the 
actions of a fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the 
customer even though they authorised the payment.
For instance, banks have an obligation to have systems in place to monitor instructed 
transactions for instances of potential fraud. Such fraud prevention systems are used by all 
financial institutions, including Barclays, to flag account activity that may be of concern and 
to prevent further usage of an account where its felt that there is a possibility that fraud may 
be potentially occurring. And so, Ive thought about whether there was anything in the nature 
of the £799 payment instruction itself that should reasonably have alerted Barclays to the 
possibility that Mr M might have been in the process of being scammed.
There are several features of scams that are relatively common. These include that an 
unusually large amount of money is being sent to a potentially suspicious recipient, which 
can often empty the victims account, leaving little or no money remaining in it.
In this instance, while the £799 payment was the largest payment from Mr Ms bank account 
in the twelve months immediately preceding the payment, the payment was made to a well-
known money transfer company. And given that its not unusual for relatively large amounts 
of money to be sent to money transfer companies, I dont feel that Barclays should have 
considered the recipient of the payment to have been of concern. 
Additionally, the £799 payment didnt completely empty Mr Ms account, which had over 
£1,200 remaining in it after the payment was made. And taking all these factors into 
consideration, I dont feel it was unreasonable for Barclays to have processed the £799 
payment as per Mr Ms instruction. 
Barclays also looked at whether they could recovery Mr Ms money via a chargeback claim. 
But for a chargeback claim to be successful, certain conditions as per the relevant 
chargeback scheme rules need to be met. And because the payment was deemed to have 
been made to a legitimate company (the money transfer company) which provided the service requested of it, this meant the payment wouldnt qualify for a reimbursement under 
the relevant chargeback scheme rules. This seems reasonable to me, and I also dont feel 
that a chargeback claim for the £799 would have been successful as per the scheme rules.
Finally, I also feel that Mr M reasonably could and should have acted differently to how he 
did act here. This includes that Mr M could have ended the call and telephoned the company 
the scammer said they were calling from himself, using a phone number taken from that 
companys website, to confirm that the call was legitimate before making the payment. And I 
feel that this is especially the case given that Mr M has confirmed that he felt he might have 
been in the process of being scammed at several points during the call with the scammer.
Ultimately, for the reasons given above, I dont feel that Barclays did anything wrong or 
acted unfairly by processing the payment to the money transfer company as per the 
instruction they received from Mr M to do so. And it follows from this that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any action here.
This isnt to say that I dont sympathise with Mr M, and I hope that hes able to recover the 
money hes lost from those who took it from him. But it is to say that I dont feel that Barclays 
should fairly be considered accountable for Mr M losing the £799, and so shouldnt fairly be 
instructed to reimburse that money to him.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr M was wanting. But I hope that hell understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman