DRN-2075861
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC placed late payment markers on his credit file over 
some years, for an account he thought was closed. Mr D told us about the effect this had on 
his ability to borrow money, and the impact that in turn had on his life.
What happened
Mr D left the country in 2012, to spend some time abroad. Before he left, he made a 
payment to his Lloyds account to clear his overdraft. For reasons that have never been 
explained, Mr Ds faster payment didnt credit his Lloyds account until several days later. The 
end result was that Mr Ds account was left very slightly overdrawn. Mr D had moved, so he 
didnt get any post telling him this, and he didnt check his account online, because he 
thought it was closed. 
Lloyds recorded late payment markers on his credit file from the time Mr D thought hed 
closed the account, until 2015 when it wrote off the debt and closed the account. It didnt 
apply a default, but Mr Ds credit file was still affected by years of late payment markers.
Mr D returned in 2015. He applied for an overdraft, and was rejected. He then discovered 
what had happened to his credit file. I February 2016 he asked Lloyds to remove the 
markers, and it agreed to do this, but it only removed one marker, out of dozens. Lloyds told 
him in 2017 that he would have to write if he wanted the markers removed. It then 
overlooked Mr Ds letter, which he said he wrote in May 2018, asking for the same thing. Mr 
D attempted to rebuild his credit score, by borrowing small amounts and repaying them. But 
Mr D was turned down for a mortgage. 
in December 2019 he contacted Lloyds again, and it finally removed the late payment 
markers from Mr Ds credit file. 
Lloyds has said its sorry that it made so many mistakes, and its offered £1,500 in 
compensation. Mr D is seeking a great deal more. He said hed split up with his partner, in 
part because he couldnt get a mortgage. And he said that friends had got on the property 
ladder at the time that hed applied for a mortgage. They had built up equity in their 
properties, and had houses which had increased in value, while he was still renting. He said 
this had significantly affected him. 
Our investigator said that Lloyds hadnt been able to explain why the faster payment Mr D 
made didnt credit his account until 12 days after it was made. Faster payments should credit 
an account very significantly quicker than this. 
Our investigator thought that this issue had affected Mr Ds credit file since 2015, when he 
was turned down for an overdraft, and hed told us it had stopped him from obtaining a 
mortgage. But our investigator said that he thought that Lloyds offer of £1,500 was fair, and 
perhaps more than he wouldve awarded if Lloyds hadnt already offered this. There had 
been periods of time when Mr D didnt appear to be chasing up this issue. And our 
investigator said that we couldnt base compensation on the difference in house prices 
between 2016 and now.
Mr D initially accepted this, and the case was closed, but then he said he hadnt received the 
payment. Lloyds said sorry, and paid. But Mr D said he was very unhappy with the delay, 
and he had changed his mind. He now wanted the complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. So it was passed to me for a final decision. Mr D has also said he wants to 
complain about the delay in payment. I understand Lloyds is responding on this separately. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Lloyds has apologised for putting all the late payment markers on Mr Ds credit file. Its clear 
that this was an error. So what I have to think about is whether Lloyds has now done enough 
to make up for that. 
Mr D has said the late payment markers had a very significant effect on his life. But in that 
case, I wouldve expected Mr D to follow up urgently with Lloyds when it didnt take the steps 
that it agreed to take, to clear his credit file. It had agreed to clear his file in 2015. I know that 
Mr D shouldnt have to chase this. But Im also aware that if he had done so, the problem 
wouldve been likely to be resolved much earlier than it has been. There are then some quite 
long gaps between the times that Mr D followed this up with Lloyds. I cant ignore those 
when I think about compensation.
Bearing this in mind, but also the circumstances Mr D has described, and the effect this has 
had on him, I do think that a payment of £1,500 is enough to provide a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. I dont think that Lloyds has to pay Mr D £5,000 or contribute to 
lost equity in a home he may otherwise have purchased. I know Mr D will be disappointed, 
but because Lloyds has already offered to do enough to provide what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman