DRN-2915806
The complaint
Mrs O complains that CB Payments Ltd (CB) caused a data breach on her Coinbase 
account.
What happened
Mrs O opened an Coinbase account with CB on 23 September 2020. She verified her date 
of birth and address by using her driving licence. She made several GBP deposits into the 
account. 
On 21 November 2020, she became locked out of her account and needed to re-verify her 
details again to have the account reactivated. She used her driving licence again for that 
purpose. But then, on 24 November 2020, before the account recovery process was 
completed, a passport belonging to her 12-year-old son was uploaded to Mrs Os account, 
along with a photo of him. CB then suspended Mrs Os account as their terms and conditions 
didnt allow a minor to have an account. Mrs O then withdrew her funds from CB.
Mrs O complained. She said she had no idea how the name of her son had become 
associated to her CB account. She said that somehow there had been a data breach and CB 
must have added her sons name and his details to her account  without her agreement. 
Because of this, she became concerned  and withdrew all her funds from CB  she said the 
value of the profit on the funds was £7,000. She said the funds were sold after the market 
had fallen by 20%, so she lost out as a result. She wants an explanation of what happened, 
compensation and the losses repaid to her. 
In their final response, CB said that an identity verification from an underage user (her son) 
was submitted on 24 November 2020. As account holder must be over 18, they restricted 
her account. 
Mrs O wasnt satisfied and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said that CB had 
acted reasonably. He said that CB didnt need to do anymore.
Mrs O didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I want to apologise to Mrs O for the time it has taken to come to a decision on 
her complaint. I must say that I found what happened to look strange, and therefore we 
asked CB many questions about what happened  because we wanted to be certain of this 
before issuing a decision. And this has taken some time. But I want to assure Mrs O that we 
have gone into this with CB in depth and are confident that we have the right information on 
which to base our decision.
And having said that  my decision is that CB acted fairly and reasonably here. I know from 
the case file that Mrs O will be disappointed by this and I will set out our findings and why 
thats my decision.
Mrs O opened an account with CB on 23 September 2020. She input her address and date 
of birth. She used her driving licence as identification and address verification (ID&V). But 
the name of her son was added to her account as the account holder. This was done by 
someone with access to Mrs Os account. Ive seen the document in CBs records which 
show this. The account still had Mrs Os date of birth (DOB) and address. The account 
passed CBs ID&V checks  as these relied on the address and DOB. So - the account was 
opened. CB explained to us that in this case, the ID&V document (the driving licence) was 
used as the primary source of information, and so the account was opened in Mrs Os name 
(and not in the name of her son). I could see this to be the case, and the account statements 
from then on all show that account was in Mrs Os name. No documents were taken from 
Mrs Os son. To help Mrs O see what happened at the account opening, we will send to her 
separately the document which was produced from CBs records.
Mrs O then became locked out of her CB account and on 21 November 2020 - had to re-
verify herself to unlock it. This is where Mrs O came across information that she found 
disturbing. As part of the recovery process, Mrs O was required to upload her ID&V 
documents again. Firstly, she used her foreign passport. This was rejected as not being 
acceptable, and she then used her driving licence as shed used when first opening the 
account in September 2020. She then received a message from CB which said Coinbase 
account recovery.we couldnt verify your IDthe name on the document (Mrs O) doesnt 
match (name of Mrs Os son). Please try again. So, I can appreciate that at this stage, 
Mrs O thought that there was a problem  as the account appeared to be in the name of her 
son. This was even though the account recovery document showed Mrs O as the account 
holder. CB explained to us that this was because they run two systems, one for ID&V 
verification, and one to maintain accounts. And because the name of Mrs Os son had been 
added as part of the original ID&V process in September 2020, the ID&V system expected to 
see a match with the name of Mrs Os son (even though the account was in the name of Mrs 
O). To help Mrs O see what happened at this stage, we will send her the document.
This issue was probably made worse by the fact that CB wrote an email on 22 November 
2020 addressed to Mrs Os son. This was in response to an email that Mrs O sent to CB 
about the message shed received about the account recovery.  We asked CB about this  
and they told us this was a clerical error. But I can see why Mrs O became concerned  as it 
looked like the account was in the name of her son.
What happened then  was that before the account recovery process was completed, on 24 
November 2020, Mrs O (or someone with access to her CB account) uploaded a copy of her 
sons passport, along with a photo of him, sitting at a desk. But - Ive seen in CBs records 
that this happened and have seen a copy of the document and photo that was uploaded. It 
showed Mrs Os son to be 12 years old, and because he was an underage person, CB 
suspended the account. To show Mrs O what happened, we will send to her the copy 
passport and photo that were uploaded. 
And so, what happened was a result of firstly  someone with access to Mrs Os account 
adding the name of her son in September 2020 during the ID&V process. And secondly  in 
November 2020 as part of the account recovery process -  someone with access to Mrs Os 
account uploading her sons passport and photo.Because Mrs O became nervous about what happened  she withdrew the funds from the 
account. She says this was because her account had been compromised in some way by 
CB and they were therefore responsible for her losses  she said the market had dropped. 
But I can only make an award here if I believe that CB made errors or acted unreasonably. 
And I dont think they did, for the reasons Ive described. It was Mrs Os decision to withdraw 
the funds. CB paid Mrs O £50 as a gesture of goodwill for the service Mrs O received. And I 
think that, given what happened, thats sufficient, and I wont be asking them to do anymore.
I know Mrs O will be disappointed by my decision, especially in view of the time weve taken 
here. But again, I want to assure Mrs O that weve been into what happened in detail and 
are confident about the facts here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman