DRN-2336883
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs E says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs E took out on a store card account in July 2002. It 
was added to her account when she applied for the card in store.
Mrs E says AXA mis-sold the policy to her. She says through her representative that she 
had sick pay and a life insurance policy so wouldnt have needed the cover provided from 
the PPI policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es complaint and Ill explain why.
I think AXA made Mrs E aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose 
to take it. I say this because AXA has given us a copy of the store card application form from 
the time of sale. This shows there was a separate section for PPI. This separate section has 
been signed by Mrs E. She has then signed the application form to say she consented to the 
information contained in it. So, I think this reflected what she wanted. Had Mrs E not wanted 
the PPI she could have completed the application and not signed in the separate box for PPI.
So, on balance, I think Mrs E was aware the policy was optional, and she agreed to take it 
out, knowing it was something she could say no to.
This application was made by Mrs E completing an application in a store. So, because of 
this, I dont think a recommendation was made by AXA. So, AXA didnt have to check if the 
policy was suitable for her. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mrs E enough information 
to make an informed choice whether the policy was right for her, taking into account her 
personal circumstances.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. So, I need to consider if Mrs E would have acted differently and not bought the policy, 
if better information had been provided. And on balance I dont think better information 
wouldve led her to act differently.
Mrs E has told us through her representative that she would have had 6 months full and 6 
months half sick pay if needed. She also says she had a life insurance policy although this 
would have provided a different type of cover (it didnt cover her against accidents, sickness 
or unemployment), so I have not placed weight on this. The policy would have paid out in 
addition to the sick pay Mrs E would have received. So, based on what I do know, I think the 
PPI could have been useful to her in that her store card payments would be met. It also 
would have provided additional cover if Mrs E was unable to work. I also couldnt see any 
significant or limiting terms that would have affected Mrs Es decision to take the policy out 
either.
Im not sure AXA gave clear information on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think this 
would have affected Mrs Es decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. 
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Es comments, but for the reasons mentioned above, these 
points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman