DRN-1485409
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, have rejected a claim he made 
to them under section 75 of the Consumer credit Act 1974 (section 75). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. I know that will 
disappoint Mr P so please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr P made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
I dont think theres sufficient evidence of either a breach of contract or a misrepresentation 
here as, although Mr P asserts that the hotel was offered with air conditioning, the hotel and 
Halifax dispute this. The hotel website has now changed as they are in new hands, so its 
not possible to consider what was advertised at the time Mr P booked his holiday.
I think its quite likely that the hotel would advertise seasonal air conditioning as 
temperatures in May, when Mr P and his party vacationed, would inevitably be a lot cooler 
than in the summer months and properties would not want the cost of running air 
conditioning. 
So, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to suggest Halifax were wrong not to 
uphold Mr Ps claim and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman