DRN-3073519
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires 
(BM) managed their requests for payment holidays on their buy to let mortgages. Mr and 
Mrs M say that its BMs fault that they failed to make the payments after the payment 
holiday ended. They would like BM to issue a Notice of Correction to the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs) to remove the non-payment information.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had three relevant buy to let mortgages with BM with accounts ending in 033, 
268 and 764. At the start of the Coronavirus pandemic they applied for payment holidays on 
the three accounts. The application for account ending 033 was processed successfully in 
April 2020 and on 6 July Mr and Mrs G got a letter on this account saying that as they pay by 
direct debit after the payment holiday, the further payments would be collected from their 
account by this method. This is what happened and there was no further issue with this 
account
Mr M phoned BM on 27 April 2020 about whether the applications had been successful for 
the payment holidays and was told that whereas account ending 033 had been processed 
and was successful, the other accounts hadnt yet been processed. Mr M said that he was 
facing financial difficulties and the agent suggested she cancel  the direct debit on the other 
two accounts to avoid further money going out pending the processing of the applications 
and that there would be letters confirming that the payment holiday was in place and when it 
would end so that they could reinstate the direct debit.
Mr and Mrs M got letters for both those accounts dated 28 May telling them that they had got 
a payment holiday for June and July. Those letters contained information about payment by 
direct debit which was advice not to cancel them as it would mean that BM couldnt collect 
the payments and so the accounts could fall into arrears, although by that stage the direct 
debits had been cancelled. At the end of July as the payment holidays were coming to an 
end and the accounts needed recalculated, BM sent letters headed Your payment holiday 
has ended containing a summary sheet with the recalculations on each account. Those 
letters also distinguished between the account where the direct debit was in place and the 
accounts where it was not. For those accounts where direct debits were not in place BM 
stated that the customers needed to set up the payments again and warned that failure to 
restart the monthly payments could lead to the accounts falling into arrears.
Direct debits werent in place for accounts ending 268 and 764 for the payments in August 
and Mr and Mrs M didnt make the payments by any other means. BM reported the missed 
payment on account ending 764 to the CRAs. In September Mr and Mrs M tried to do a 
product transfer which then showed up this issue. BM allowed the product transfer to 
proceed but says that the information it reported to the CRAs was correct. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she didnt think that that BM had 
done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a preliminary issue I wanted to clarify why a missing payment on only one account was 
reported on to the CRAs. There appear to be two accounts on which payment was not made 
in August but Ive only evidence of the reporting of a missed payment on one account which 
is the account ending 764 but not the account ending 268. I understand that there was 
different timing between when the payments fell due and different reporting dates to the 
CRAs. BM then, but not now, also operated a period of grace of 14 days before reporting a 
missed payment to the CRAs. The effect of this was that payment to account ending 764 
which was due in early August and wasnt paid was reported as unpaid to the CRAs at the 
end of August, after allowing for the 14-day grace period. 
A payment on account ending 268 which was also due in August and was unpaid but was 
due at a later date in August. Because of that and the operation of the concessionary 14-day 
grace period the missed payment for August on account 268 wasnt to be reported to the 
CRAs until September by which time payment had been made and so wasnt reported as a 
missed payment. Although there is a degree of complexity about this, as it resulted in one of 
the missed payments not being reported to the CRAs, it doesnt appear to have worked to 
Mr and Mrs Ms disadvantage. 
Mr and Mrs M had several buy to let properties. They had difficulties during the Coronavirus 
pandemic in making the monthly payments on some of the properties. Mr M had suffered a 
spinal injury and was unable to work as he was self-employed, and some tenants were 
unable to pay their rent. So, they looked to BM for assistance by way of payment holidays on 
some of the accounts. Not surprisingly, when Mr and Mrs M made their application, there 
were many other similar applications and there were some delays in processing the 
applications and all was not smooth. But, given the situation at that time, this was 
understandable. The problem was that when the payment holiday ended, Mr and Mrs M 
didnt make the payments for August on two accounts. This caused BM to inform the CRAs 
of a missed payment. 
If payments are missed BM is under an obligation through its arrangement with the CRAs to 
report those missed payments which it did. The reporting is simply a factual record of missed 
payments. As I understand it, Mr and Mrs M are saying that they didnt make the payments 
in August because when setting up the payment holiday, BM had cancelled the direct debit. 
It does seem that in the call of 27 April that the BM agent did that but with the knowledge of 
Mr and Mrs M and with advice that they should re-instate the direct debit when the payment 
holiday came to an end. The cancellation of the direct debits was done for Mr and Mrs Ms 
benefit to avoid calling money from Mr and Mrs Ms account pending the confirmation of the 
payment holiday. Also, in advance of the payment holidays ending, BM wrote to Mr and Mrs 
M to say that to avoid going into arrears that they should reinstate the direct debit. Mr and 
Mrs M didnt do that and didnt make the payment by any other means, so BM recorded 
these as missed payments.
My role is to decide whether BM was at fault. My view is that it wasnt. Mr and Mrs M were 
made aware that, for their benefit, the direct debit was being cancelled They were then 
advised to reinstate the direct debit after the payment holiday ended and were written to 
advising them how to avoid going into arrears. Mr and Mrs M say they failed to read those 
letters but thats hardly BMs fault. Those letters in July, besides telling them about the direct 
debit, also told them what the amended payments would be which was clearly relevant to 
them in managing their buy to let business and which they would reasonably be expected to have read. The letters werent simply repetitive but contained information relevant to each 
account.
So, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. I note that there is an issue of the date of one of the 
missed payments recorded by a CRA, but BM seems to have supplied the correct 
information about when the payment was missed to the CRA.  Mr and Mrs M have asked BM 
to issue a Notice of Correction. BM were simply recording the factual situation that a 
payment hadnt been made. That was correct and I dont accept that BM did anything wrong, 
So, I wont be requiring it to amend the information held by the CRAs. But my understanding 
is that Mr and Mrs M can lodge their own Notice of Correction with CRAs which they may 
wish to consider doing.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman