DRN-2785404
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) reduced his 
credit card limit from £6,900 to £350 without providing any notice.
What happened
Mr J has a credit card account with Tesco. The limit on the account was £6,900. In May 
2020, he received a letter from Tesco informing him that his credit limit had been reduced to 
£350. 
Mr J contacted Tesco to complain. He told them that he wasnt happy with the limit reduction 
and that no advance notice had been provided about the change. He wanted Tesco to 
reinstate his limit.
Tesco replied to Mr J in writing. They explained that they regularly carry out reviews to 
ensure that the credit limits provided to their customers remain suitable. They said that they 
use information across all Tesco products that their customers use, together with data 
provided by credit reference agencies in order to reach a decision. In Mr Js case they 
decided that the limit reduction was appropriate. They also said that no advance notification 
is provided.
Mr J was unhappy with Tescos response, so he decided to refer his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators has looked into the circumstances of Mr Js complaint. He 
didnt think that Tesco had done anything wrong here.
Mr J didnt agree with our investigators view. So, he asked that his complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that Mr J was upset and disappointed that Tesco decided to reduce his 
credit card limit by the amount that they did. Particularly as they didnt provide any advance 
notice to him. Mr J believes that Tesco should reinstate the limit of £6,900 and also pay 
compensation to him of £500.
Mr J has told us that Tesco had recently agreed to provide him with a loan over five years. 
He said that theyd agreed the loan with their lowest available interest rate. So, he doesnt 
understand why Tesco then decided to reduce his credit card limit by such a large amount. 
He also said that his credit score, with the credit reference agencies, had remained at a 
relatively good and consistent level for the six months up to the point when Tesco reduced 
his limit. Hes provided copies of his credit report and I agree that this appears to be the 
case.
Mr J also pointed out that Tesco emailed him in April 2020 highlighting new Balance and 
Money Transfer rates available to him. He believes this contradicts Tescos decision to 
reduce his credit limit. Ive seen this email. It appears to be a general email offer 
personalised to Mr J. The email pre-dates the limit reduction letter and I think its reasonable 
to conclude that it also pre-dates any credit limit review completed by Tesco here.
I believe its important to make clear our position in these circumstances. Its not the role of 
this service to direct a business as to what its lending criteria is or should be. In just the 
same way that a customer may choose which business they wish to deal with, so a business 
is entitled to determine if its prepared to lend to any individual and if so, how much. That is 
their choice. But they must be able to demonstrate that any amount lent has been 
considered and agreed in a proportionate and responsible way.
Tesco have confirmed that they did write to Mr J in May 2020 to tell him theyd reduced his 
credit card limit. They said that no advance notification was required and that theyd let him 
know they could do this within their Terms and Conditions. Ive read these and they say, Its 
worth noting that we can change this limit from time to time, but well tell you when we do 
this. I agree that Tesco doesnt have to give notice to Mr J about decreasing his available 
credit limit. Ultimately, this is a business decision and not one this service would look to 
overturn.
Where Tesco decide to reduce Mr Js credit limit, I would expect them to ensure that this 
doesnt have a negative impact upon his overall ability to manage his finances. I think that 
Tesco did that here, and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Mr Js credit card statements for the 6 months prior to the limit reduction. 
During that period, the card hadnt been used to make any purchases. The balance owed 
was consistently above £6,000. The statements show that Mr J was only making the 
minimum payments by direct debit. In April 2020, Mr J made a balance transfer to the 
account increasing the amount owed close to the limit. The outstanding balance was then 
repaid in full. The fact that the card hadnt been used for any purchases during this period 
reasonably suggests that Mr J wasnt reliant upon it for any regular outgoings or expenses.
Tesco have confirmed that in April 2020, they accepted an application from Mr J for a debt 
consolidation loan of £20,000. It was this that led to the repayment of the outstanding 
balance on Mr Js credit card with Tesco. So, it appears that rather than Tesco actually 
reducing how much Mr J owed to them, they had in fact increased it. Its also relevant that 
Mr J also still owed the amount that had been cleared from his credit card. It had merely 
been transferred to the loan with repayments at a level that both Mr J and Tesco agreed he 
could afford.  
Tesco have confirmed that Mr Js credit card limit was later reviewed and reduced in May 
2020. They looked at his circumstances at the time. This included information from credit 
reference agencies together with existing details they held and other products and 
borrowings he had with them. They decided that the limit reduction was appropriate after this 
review. To confirm, its not this services role to question Tescos own lending policies.
So, I believe its reasonable to conclude that Tesco had fully explored Mr Js circumstances 
properly to ensure that their decision was appropriate and there was no negative impact 
upon Mr Js ability to manage his finances. I do realise that Mr J will be disappointed by my 
decision, but I cant reasonably conclude that Tesco have done anything wrong here. So, I 
will not be asking them to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman