DRN-2201729
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Unum Ltds decision to terminate his claim under his employers 
group income protection insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr K, who was employed in a sedentary role, was a member of his employers group income 
protection insurance policy which was held with Unum. The policy, after a deferred period of 
26 weeks, would pay a regular benefit for a duration of up to five years in the event that Mr K 
was unable to perform his occupation due to illness or injury. Mr Ks cover under the policy 
would end in February 2022 when he reached the age of 65.
In July 2017, Mr K stopped working due to cervicalgia which resulted in symptoms of pain in 
his neck, arm and shoulder. He made a claim under the policy which Unum accepted. It 
began paying benefit from the end of the deferred period in January 2018.
In 2019, with Mr K still off work, Unum reviewed the claim. It arranged for Mr K in June 2019 
to undergo a functional capacity assessment (FCA) by a physiotherapist (who Ill call Mr H). 
Based on Mr Hs findings, Unum concluded that provided his employer made reasonable 
workplace adjustments Mr K was capable of making a gradual return to work. It therefore 
advised his employer in July 2019 that it would be terminating the claim with effect from the 
end of August 2019.
Mr K appealed against Unums decision and provided some further medical evidence in 
support of his case. Unum, however, wouldnt change its decision. Mr K therefore referred 
his complaint to us.
In June 2020, while his complaint was under investigation by this service, Mr K was 
dismissed by his employer on the grounds of his inability to perform his occupation.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
The policy will pay benefit if Mr K is unable, by reason of illness or injury, to perform the 
material and substantial duties of his occupation.
When Mr K stopped working in 2017, he reported to Unum that within 30 minutes of sitting 
down and working on his laptop computer he would develop numbness and pain in his neck 
and right shoulder/arm due to his cervicalgia. He said this prevented him from doing his job, 
which required him to spend most of his time working on a computer. He said he was 
undergoing physiotherapy for his condition.
Unum accepted the claim. It concluded there was objective evidence of the reported 
condition and that Mr Ks symptoms meant he was unable to sit and type for prolonged 
periods which was a necessary requirement of his occupation.
Unum spoke to Mr K in May 2019. He reported that, despite the physiotherapy, his condition 
had not improved. He was no longer receiving any treatment or being prescribed medication. 
He had been advised by his consultant that the only treatment which was likely to make a 
difference was surgical intervention. However, given the associated risks, and the fact that 
his condition did not significantly affect most of his day to day activities, he was reluctant to 
undergo this. He said if he sat down to use his laptop, his symptoms would be brought on 
after about ten minutes. He said that he had previously tried a sit/stand work desk but this 
hadnt helped because he still needed to look down to operate the keyboard and this 
aggravated his symptoms.
Mr K attended the FCA in June 2019. Mr H noted that Mr Ks symptoms were brought on by 
sustained neck flexion and accepted that prolonged laptop use would clearly have the 
potential to cause aggravation. However, Mr H considered that Mr K nonetheless had 
adequate functional capability to carry out his occupation. He recommended that Mr K 
should be provided with a specialist ergonomic workstation assessment. He anticipated that 
such an assessment would result in Mr K switching from using a laptop to using an optimally 
adjusted desktop computer. He thought that with this input, it would be reasonable to expect 
Mr K to complete a gradual return to work over a period of six weeks.
Mr K didnt attempt a gradual return to work. He disputed aspects of Mr Hs report, including 
that he had been able to sit continuously for a period of just over an hour. He said that he 
had previously tried using an ergonomically designed desk which allowed him to sit or stand, 
and he had also used desktop PCs, but these had not alleviated his symptoms. He provided 
an email dated August 2019 from his treating neurological consultant in which the consultant 
said that the installation of a more ergonomic desk so that he didnt have to look down was 
unlikely to make a difference to Mr Ks pain. Mr K thought returning to work was likely to 
aggravate his clinical condition and waste his employers time and resources.
Unum issued its final response letter in October 2019. It didnt change its position. It 
considered that Mr Ks condition had demonstrably improved since the time hed stopped 
working. It addressed Mr Ks criticisms of Mr Hs report and said that Mr Ks consultant had 
provided no explanation of why he thought the installation of a more ergonomic desk was 
unlikely to make a difference.
Mr K still didnt attempt a return to work. In November 2019, his employers occupational 
health adviser considered that he was unable to do so due to his symptoms and that there 
were no modifications or adjustments which would allow this.
I note that Mr K disputed certain aspects of Mr Hs report. In particular, he disputed that he 
remained sitting continuously for over an hour during the FCA. However, Mr H stands by his 
report. Mr H is a trained professional. I consider it likely that he observed and recorded 
matters correctly during the assessment.
However, Im not sure why Unum said Mr Ks condition had demonstrably improved while 
hed been off work. I can find little evidence to support this. Unum noted that Mr K was 
relatively unrestricted in many of his day to day activities but this had always been the case. 
It was sitting down to work on his laptop which would trigger his symptoms and I cant see 
that anything had changed in this respect.
Mr H concluded that Mr K was able to return to work with a suitably designed work station. 
Mr K disputed this and said he previously worked at a desk at which he could sit or stand, 
and had previously used a PC instead of a laptop, but these hadnt made a difference.
Mr K also provided a letter from his treating consultant saying that the installation of a more 
ergonomic desk which removed the need for him to look down was unlikely to make a difference to his pain. Unum noted that he consultant didnt provide a rationale for this 
opinion which is true. But Unum didnt seek to make further enquiries with the consultant to 
find out why he held that view; it simply dismissed his opinion and wrote to him for 
information only to confirm it was terminating Mr Ks claim.
Mr Ks consultant has confirmed that it is only surgery which is likely to improve Mr Ks 
condition. Mr K is reluctant to undergo this because of the associated risks. I consider this is 
a reasonable position for him to take and I dont consider that this should count against him 
in the assessment of his claim.
Overall, while I acknowledge the opinion of Mr H concerning Mr Ks ability to return to work, 
I consider there is significant evidence to counter this including Mr Ks testimony that he has 
previously used an ergonomic desk and it didnt alleviate his symptoms, the opinion of an 
occupational health specialist and, in particular, the opinion of his treating consultant. I can 
understand Mr Ks reluctance to attempt a return to work if he felt that this would simply 
exacerbate his symptoms which in turn could lead to him needing further treatment. On 
balance, I consider Unum didnt do enough to show that it was possible for Mr K to return to 
work and it was therefore unfair for it to terminate the claim when it did.
The investigator recommended that Unum should reinstate the claim. Mr K, however, has 
confirmed that following Unums termination of his claim he was dismissed by his employer 
on 14 May 2020 on the grounds he was medically unable to perform his occupation. Unums 
liability under the policy ends when Mr Ks employment ends. However, it seems likely to me 
that the employer would not have dismissed Mr K had his claim still been in payment as it 
should have been. I therefore consider it is unfair for Mr K to stop receiving benefit at the 
time he was dismissed. Unum should therefore pay compensation directly to Mr K from this 
point, equivalent to the amount of benefit he would have received under the policy had his 
claim still been in payment.
The investigator also thought Unum should be allowed to organise a specialist ergonomic 
assessment to see whether Mr K might be able to return to his occupation. This has now 
been made difficult because, due to Unums decision to terminate the claim, Mr K has no job 
to which he can return in the unlikely event that his condition improves to the extent that 
such a return could have been possible. I note that the claim could only have ever run until 
February 2022, some nine months from now, because Mr K would then reach the age of 65 
and his cover under the policy would end. Mr K has provided evidence to show that he has 
been granted an early pension from a previous employment after a review by an 
occupational health consultant concluded that he was unlikely to be able to return to work 
before the age of 65. I consider the fairest and most pragmatic outcome is that Unum pays 
compensation to Mr K equivalent to the benefit he would otherwise have received under the 
policy until his 65th birthday.
I invited both parties to comment on my provisional decision.
Mr K responded to say his condition had not improved since hed stopped work and, if 
anything, had worsened. He said my proposed award would compensate him for his lost 
earnings but didnt compensate him for the stress and anxiety hed suffered due to Unums 
actions. He said Unums termination of his claim had also affected his ability to maintain 
contributions to his pension scheme which meant his pension payments would be lower for 
the rest of his life. He asked that Unum make its backdated payments to him in such a way 
that he paid no more tax than he would have done if hed received the benefit payments at 
the proper time.
Unum proposed that, in line with the terms of the policy, it would pay benefit to Mr Ks former 
employer (which was the policyholder) up to the time that Mr Ks employment was terminated, so that the employer could deduct the appropriate amounts for tax and national 
insurance. It proposed that for benefit payments from that date onwards, it would make 
these directly to Mr K but with the appropriate tax deducted, rather than treat them as 
compensation.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unum accepted my decision but suggested that payments after Mr Ks employment was 
terminated, because they related to income replacement, should be treated as benefit 
payments from which appropriate tax needs to be deducted rather than as compensation 
payments which would circumvent tax. I consider this is a reasonable suggestion.
I acknowledge Mr K may have suffered some stress and anxiety due to Unums termination 
of the claim. I also acknowledge that he may have had difficulty in maintaining his pension 
payments following this. However, taking everything into account, I consider that asking 
Unum to pay benefit directly to Mr K until his 65th birthday, without the ability to conduct any 
further review of the claim, is adequate compensation. I dont therefore propose to add 
anything more to the award.
Mr K has asked that Unum structure his benefit payments so that he ends up paying no 
more tax than he would have done had the payments been made at the appropriate time. 
I understand Mr Ks concern that he should not suffer a tax loss due to Unum unfairly 
terminating his claim. However, I consider that the tax issue is too complex for me to 
satisfactorily address through my award on this complaint, particularly as I dont yet know 
whether Mr K will end up being adversely affected. I therefore suggest that Mr K explains 
directly to Unum how his accountant has suggested the payments should be structured. If 
Unum is unable or unwilling to abide by the accountants recommendation, and Mr K incurs 
an additional tax cost as a result, he should subsequently raise this with Unum as a new 
complaint. If he is not satisfied with its response and any offer of compensation, he may 
again refer the complaint to us.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Unum Ltd to do the following:
reinstate Mr Ks claim and pay benefit to Mr Ks former employer up to the date he was 
dismissed;
pay benefit directly to Mr K, with appropriate tax deducted, from the date he was 
dismissed until the date of his 65th birthday; and
add interest to the outstanding benefit payments at the annual simple rate of 8%, 
calculated from the date each benefit payment was due to be made until the date of 
settlement.*
* If Unum considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that
interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr K a certificate showing this if
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021. 
David PoleyOmbudsman