DRN-1513014
The complaint
Miss A complains that she was mis-sold a Gold Added Value Account (GAVA) by Lloyds 
Bank PLC (Lloyds). 
What happened
Miss A held a bank account with Lloyds from before 2001. Her first accounts did not have a 
fee.
She took out a Select Added Value Account (SAVA) in November 2006 which incurred a 
monthly fee.
Miss A upgraded to a Gold Added Value Account (GAVA) in December 2006 which also 
incurred a monthly fee.
Lloyds has said that the SAVA was mis-sold and paid Miss A redress as a result. But Lloyds 
has said that the GAVA was not mis-sold.
Our adjudicator investigated Miss As complaint and decided that Lloyds response was fair 
and reasonable. Miss A disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss As complaint.
Miss A says the GAVA was mis-sold in June 2010. In my view, I dont agree, and Ill explain 
why.
I think its more likely than not that Miss A was aware she could have an account with no fee 
at any time as shed had one without a fee for many years, and such accounts have always 
been openly available from many banks and financial institutions. 
In June 2010, Miss A had had a SAVA for several years so she was familiar with fee paying 
accounts, the type of benefits they offered and how much they might cost.
So, I think Miss A knew the GAVA was optional and she chose to take out the GAVA based 
on Lloyds advice and information.
As Lloyds advised Miss A to take out the GAVA it needed to not only provide her with 
enough information about the GAVA to make an informed choice. It also needed to take 
adequate steps to ensure that the GAVA was a reasonable fit for Miss As circumstances.
The GAVA cost £12 a month and provided a range of benefits including worldwide travel 
insurance, AA breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance, sentinel card protection, and a 
free overdraft of up to £100. 
I dont know what Lloyds said or what information it gave Miss A, but I think it its more likely 
than not that it gave her a detailed explanation. I say this because Lloyds was trying to sell 
Miss A the account and it has also provided a record of detailed elements of that discussion. 
I think Miss A would have been interested in and eligible for the benefits, and that the 
account was suitable for her. I say this because she says she travelled regularly, the car 
breakdown cover benefited her even if she wasnt the driver or owner of the broken-down 
car and Lloyds has provided evidence that a mobile phone was registered for insurance 
cover.
Miss A says that the travel insurance didnt cover her due to medical conditions. But Lloyds 
has a record that her medical conditions were discussed during the sale. And, based on the 
information Miss A gave Lloyds at the time, it rang the insurance company and confirmed on 
the phone that she was covered.
Miss A could also have closed the GAVA at any time, but she didnt for many years. And the 
fact that she didnt use all the benefits was a matter of choice for her.
So, in my view Lloyds advice to Miss A to take out the GAVA was suitable. And there was 
no information that she didnt receive that would likely have put her off it. So, I dont think 
Miss A lost out by taking out the GAVA or through anything Lloyds may have done wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman