DRN-3334977
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wouldnt let him make a cash 
withdrawal. He would like compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
..
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate it must have been embarrassing for Mr S to have had his request to 
make a large cash withdrawal turned down in branch. And that it took some time  to 
deal with this on the day along with several phone calls prior to the branch visit.
I have seen NatWests terms and conditions which allow it to refuse customers 
instructions  to protect NatWest or the consumer from crime. It also has a duty of 
care to protect both the bank and its customers.
Mr S wanted to withdraw a significant sum in cash. His reasons for wanting the 
money  to put it under a mattress or to use in a casino when casinos were closed 
due to the  pandemic  concerned NatWest and  were, I believe,  sufficient for it to be 
think this was an unusual transaction  potentially a scam.  I dont think NatWest 
were then wrong to initiate the banking protocol by contacting the police.
I have listened to the recording of conversation between Mr S and the police. I accept 
Mr Ss point that the policeman says, at one point that, he has no concerns. But its 
also made clear that its a bank decision to allow the withdrawal or not. .
I dont think it was unreasonable for NatWest to refuse the transaction given the large 
sum involved and implausible explanations for wanting such a sum. I believe 
NatWest acted in Mr Ss best interests and correctly followed its processes. For the 
same reasons whilst I appreciate the time taken and embarrassment caused,  I dont 
feel its appropriate to ask NatWest to compensate Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
