DRN-4081805
The complaint
Ms S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund transactions she didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Ms S lives abroad but maintains a bank account with Barclays. Ms S has said she tried to 
use her card at an automated teller machine (ATM) but no funds were dispensed. She tried 
a second time, again, without success.
A few days later, Ms S tried a different ATM and successfully withdrew funds. Ms S checked 
her statements and noticed that the funds had been debited from her account that related to 
her earlier (unsuccessful) attempts to withdraw cash. She also noticed several other 
unrecognised transactions going back a few years and contacted Barclays about them. Ms S 
didnt believe that certain withdrawals had been made by her and didnt recognise the name 
of one of the ATMs listed on her statement.
Barclays looked into the situation and temporarily refunded the amounts. They asked Ms S 
for more information in a letter they sent which took some time to arrive, probably due to the 
distance the letter needed to travel. Unfortunately, the delay in receiving the letter caused 
the dispute raised with Barclays to be closed because no response had been received in the 
timeframe explained in the letter. Barclays also took back the temporary refund.
Some months later, Ms S got back in touch with Barclays about the situation and the issue 
was reopened and a complaint lodged. Barclays relooked at what had happened and didnt 
think there was an error. They understood that Ms S hadnt lost her card or given her 
personal identification number (PIN) out and as she lived alone it seemed unlikely that the 
withdrawals could have been made by anyone else. They did accept that they could have 
handled Ms Ss issue better and paid her £75 for the poor service she received.
Ms S remained unhappy and still believed shed lost a large sum of money due to several 
unrecognised transactions. Ms S brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for an independent review where it was looked into by one of our investigators.
Both parties were asked about the complaint and supplied information. Ms S believed that 
one of the ATMs had an unusual name and that some of the payments werent registering 
on a statement she held with another bank (who also operated the ATMs she generally 
used). 
Barclays provided details about the complaint and audit data about most of the disputed 
transactions. That data showed the withdrawals had been made over slightly different dates 
to some of those referred to by Ms S. It also showed that they were authorised using the PIN 
and the debit cards chip had been read by the ATM. This meant that it was the genuine 
debit card issued to Ms S that was used at the ATM.
After considering the information, the investigator concluded that the withdrawals had been 
authorised because Ms S still had her card and no one else had access to it. He also 
referred to a difference in dates between the statements and Ms Ss recollection. He 
remarked that the statements for her other bank account wouldnt show withdrawals made 
with her Barclays debit card. It was also confirmed that the name of the ATM was a genuine 
one which was located at the shopping centre usually used by Ms S.
Ms S disagreed and continued to believe she was out of pocket due to the unrecognised 
transactions. She didnt think that Barclays information concerning some of the dates of the 
withdrawals was correct.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Barclays can hold Ms S liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Barclays can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Ms S authorised 
the transactions, but Barclays cannot say that the use of the card and PIN conclusively 
proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Barclays can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Ms Ss account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Ms S. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Ms S responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
I can appreciate here that the great distance between Ms S and her bank doesnt always 
make managing her account easy. Ms S has said shes had some trouble getting all her 
bank statements over the recent years. 
Ms S said she noticed the problem when shed made two attempts to get funds from an ATM 
on the same day, but these later appeared as debits on her statement. Ive attempted to 
acquire the records of the ATM, but this has proven difficult. So, Ive been unable to see 
what actually happened based on the ATM records. What I have seen is that Barclays data 
shows when those withdrawals were made which differs from Ms Ss recollection.
This type of data is collected whenever a transaction is made and generally can be relied 
upon to be accurate. Whilst it doesnt show failed attempts to use the ATM, the information 
does show that the withdrawals Ms S said she attempted on the same day were in fact made 
some days apart. Its possible of course that the ATM was having a problem on the day Ms 
S has referred to and didnt dispense funds to her. But, she believes that the dates Barclays 
have said is wrong and that the exact amounts she tried resulted in two withdrawals which 
she never received.
The evidence shows that two withdrawals were made at the ATM on different days and 
based on the fact that Ms S hadnt lost her card and lives alone, it doesnt seem likely they 
could have been made by anyone else. These types of transactions also use a debit card 
with a chip embedded in it along with a PIN to authorise the withdrawal. Were not aware of any successful attempt to clone a chip-based card, so its reasonable to assume that those 
withdrawals used the genuine card issued to Ms S. It follows that I think the other disputed 
transactions were also carried out in the same way.
Ive considered her belief that the name of the ATM is unusual, but that information would be 
supplied by the operator of the ATM and not Barclays. So, its not likely that the name has 
any relevance to whether the transactions were authorised. 
Ms S also referred to her other bank statement during the complaint. When she uses her 
Barclays debit card to make withdrawals, they wont show on the account she holds with 
another bank, even if that bank operate the ATM she was using at the time. I hope that 
clarifies some of the concerns Ms S has about these withdrawals.
I did consider whether it was likely an unauthorised third party was responsible and I just 
dont think its likely based on the living arrangements of Ms S and that she keeps her PIN 
details secret. Its not plausible to think that someone could regularly access her home, take 
her card and obtain the PIN and return it without Ms Ss knowledge.
I understand this will be disappointing news for Ms S, but based on the available evidence, I 
think its more likely than not that Ms S was responsible for making these withdrawals and it 
was reasonable for Barclays to hold her liable for them.
Ms S was principally concerned with the transactions she didnt recognise when she asked 
for a further review, so I havent gone on to consider the customer service payment that 
Barclays paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman