DRN-3657279
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Highworth Insurance Limited (Highworth) arranged inadequate
cover when they took out their home contents insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs O are represented by a solicitor. I will refer to Mr and Mrs O in my decision for
ease of reading.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O arranged their home contents insurance through Highworth acting as their 
broker. When on holiday in August 2020 two diamond rings and a gold watch were stolen 
from their accommodation. Their insurer offered £2,000 for their loss, when the actual 
value of the items was much higher. Mr and Mrs O believe Highworth is responsible for the 
inadequate insurance cover they had in place.
Mr and Mrs O want Highworth to pay the full value of the loss they incurred, which 
amounts to £12,068.27, plus interest. In addition, they are seeking a contribution toward 
their legal fees amounting to £2,500 plus vat. As well as a refund of the insurance premium 
they paid and the commission Highworth received.
Highworth says it arranged cover based on the information provided by Mr and Mrs O. It 
had arranged insurance for them in previous years and sent renewal documents for them 
to review at the beginning of May 2020. It says they were instructed to ensure the cover 
still met their needs and to contact it if not. As no contact was made the policy renewed 
based on this information.
Highworth says contents cover was arranged for Mr and Mrs Os valuables. The policy had 
a total contents sum insured of £60,573. With a sum insured for personal possessions and 
valuables of £29,918. It says their loss claim was limited to £2,000 by the insurer as the 
terms say this is the limit for theft of jewellery from a hotel room. Highworth didnt think it 
had done anything wrong. So, it didnt agree to cover Mr and Mrs Os loss, their legal fees 
or to refund the cost of their premium plus its commission.
Mr and Mrs O didnt think this was fair and referred their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold their complaint, She thought the terms were set out clearly in the 
policy documents. She said Highworth had made it clear they should review this 
information to ensure suitable cover was in place. She didnt think it had mis-sold the policy 
and so didnt think it was fair for Highworth to have to cover Mr and Mrs Os loss or refund 
the premium along with its commission payment.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs O were required to appoint legal representation in 
order to complain to Highworth or to use our service. And she didnt think it was reasonable 
that it should pay these costs.
Mr and Mrs O disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review their 
complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr and 
Mrs Os complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs O say Highworth arranged inadequate cover because although it covers theft of 
valuables anywhere in the world, any claim involving theft from a hotel is limited to £2,000. 
They say they relied on Highworth to give them appropriate advice and had used its 
services to arrange insurance since around 2013. They say they trusted it to have a good 
understanding of their insurance needs, but it failed to ensure adequate cover was 
provided.
Ive read the policy schedule, statement of fact and terms and conditions relating to Mr and 
Mrs Os policy to understand what information Highworth was given and the cover provided 
by the policy. The loss claim was made in August 2020, so its the policy year that runs 
from May 2020 to May 2021 that is relevant here.
The policy schedule details the Standard contents sum insured is £60,573. A sum insured 
of £29,918 is detailed under, Personal Possessions and Valuables. In this section there 
are specified items of jewellery and one specified item described as, Personal Effects.
Highworths statement of fact includes a section on contents cover. It has a section 
entitled, Specified Items (Away From Home). This sets out several items including the 
diamond rings and gold watch included in the theft claim. The total value of the specified 
items also comes to £29,918.
Mr and Mrs Os understanding is that they were covered in full for the loss of their items. 
But the policy terms set out further conditions relating to the circumstances of their loss. 
The terms under section three, Personal Possessions and Valuables say:
What your policy does not cover:
more than £2,000 in respect of theft or disappearance of jewellery from hotel or other 
temporary accommodation during Your absence from such rooms
I have thought about Mr and Mrs Os view that this policy term wasnt brought to their 
attention. As well as their view that it was clear by including specified items with valuations, 
that this was the level of cover the insurance policy was intended to provide.
When Highworth sent Mr and Mrs Os renewal invitation in May 2020 it included a document 
entitled, Terms of Business/Customer Charter  Advised Sale. This sets out the following:
Awareness of policy terms. When a policy is issued, you are strongly advised to read it 
carefully, as it is that document, the schedule and any certificate of insurance that is the 
basis of the insurance contract you have purchased. If you are in doubt over any of the 
policy terms and conditions, please seek our advice promptly.
Having read the policy terms, these do limit cover to £2,000 for loss or theft from a hotel 
room. However, this term isnt mentioned until page 32 of the 46-page policy document. Highworth infers its reasonable that Mr and Mrs O should have identified this term 
themselves.
The statement of fact provided by Highworth shows the items claimed for were listed 
under the heading, Specified Items (Away from Home). Mr and Mrs Os understanding 
was that this meant their items were covered whilst they were on holiday abroad.
Highworth says its reasonable for Mr and Mrs O to have noticed the term on page 32 of the 
policy terms and conditions and contacted it if they had concerns. But I dont agree that this 
was reasonable. This was an advised sale, meaning Highworth recommended to Mr and 
Mrs O that they should buy this policy. In doing so it had a duty to ensure it recommended 
cover suitable for their needs.
The statement of fact confirms Mr and Mrs O wanted cover for their items whilst they were 
away from home. I think a reasonable person would expect this to provide cover whilst 
they were on holiday. Mr and Mrs Os policy did provide this cover but only for a fraction of 
the value of the items they had specified in the statement of fact.
Given the restrictive nature of this term, I think Highworth shouldve clearly highlighted it to 
Mr and Mrs O. I cant see that this was done. The term significantly limits the cover 
provided for their specified items and so required a greater emphasis than inclusion on 
page 32 of the policy booklet. Particularly when considering Mr and Mrs O had specified 
items approaching £30,000 for away from home cover  when in reality the policy limits 
this cover to £2,000.
Highworth says it relies on the consumer to disclose their intentions in order to ensure 
adequate cover is provided. It says it wasnt approached in relation to Mr and Mrs Os 
travel plans and as such it wasnt a stated demand or need. It says Mr and Mrs O didnt 
specify taking a large sum of jewellery on holiday and leaving it unattended as a need. 
Had this been specified it says an alternative insurance solution wouldve been sourced. 
Highworth says the policy wording is written in as simple language as possible to ensure it 
is understood by anyone who reads it.
Mr and Mrs O say they relied on Highworth in previous years and it had provided 
adequate cover. They say they werent notified that the 2020 policy would provide 
substantially different terms to previous policies they had that were suitable.
We asked Highworth for its comments. It says it doesnt believe the level of cover has 
been reduced. It says its arguable the cover has increased as the 2020 policy covered the 
theft event even though there were no signs of forcible entry. It says its interpretation is 
the loss wouldnt have been covered under Mr and Mrs Os previous policy for this reason.
Highworth says Mr and Mrs O refer to a previous policy that would have provided a higher 
level of cover for the same items when away from home. It says this requires reading the 
policy documentation. But it points out that they have said it wasnt reasonable to expect 
them to read the terms for the 2020 policy, which is why they say they werent aware of 
the £2,000 limit for items stolen from a hotel room.
I acknowledge Highworths comments about the previous cover, the policy information it 
provided, and its view Mr and Mrs O hadnt made their intentions known to take a large 
sum of jewellery on holiday with them. But its clear Mr and Mrs O had told it cover was 
needed away from home. Cover was provided within the policy for their loss from the theft 
whilst abroad. But Highworth didnt clearly highlight the restrictive term on page 32 of the 
policy booklet limiting cover to £2,000.I cant see that this term was detailed anywhere else. Because of this I dont think Mr and 
Mrs O were in an informed position when agreeing to buy this policy. Highworth should 
have made sure to emphasise this term and what it meant for cover away from home, 
which it didnt do.
Having considered all of this, I dont think Highworth treated Mr and Mrs O fairly by not 
clearly highlighting the term limiting cover to £2,000. Because of this it should cover the 
remaining sum from the loss they incurred.
I have thought about Mr and Mrs Os view that Highworth should cover their legal costs in 
bringing this claim. As well as a refund of premiums and the commission the business 
received from selling their policy.
There is no requirement for legal representation to pursue a complaint with Highworth or 
when referring a complaint to our service. I acknowledge Mr and Mrs O have incurred 
costs from instructing a solicitor. But I dont think its fair that Highworth should pay these 
costs. The premium was paid to the insurer for the cover provided. Mr and Mrs O 
benefitted from the cover in place and Highworth arranged this. So, although I understand 
they are unhappy with the outcome of this claim, I dont think its reasonable for Highworth 
to refund the premium or its commission.
In summary I dont think Highworth treated Mr and Mrs O fairly. It should provide a 
payment to cover the remaining part of their loss plus 8% simple interest from the date of 
the loss until payment is provided.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint and Highworth Insurance Limited 
should:
Make a payment to Mr and Mrs O to cover the remaining part of their loss from the
theft claim, plus 8% simple interest from the date of the loss until payment is
provided. *If Highworth considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs O how much its taken
off. It should also give Mr and Mrs O a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Highworth responded to say it is disappointed that my provisional decision reverses the 
decision made by our investigator. It also highlights the time taken to reach this decision.
With reference to the items Mr and Mrs O claimed for, Highworth says that a requirement or 
limit relating to unattended items is not unusual or onerous. And highlights a safe clause 
relating to theft from home and a reasonable precautions clause. Highworth also points to 
the policy information it provided that set out the clause limiting a loss to £2,000. And says 
the documentation instructed them to review this information.
Highworth queries the point of sending information to a customer and asking them to review 
it - if they do not do so. It says the policy term was clearly explained and highlighted in the 
documentation Mr and Mrs O received. 
Highworth also comments on the time taken for our service to reach this decision. It says the 
interest payment it is being asked to pay is for a longer period because of delays created by 
this service. It also says that 8% is very high bearing in mind interest rates over the period in 
question.Mr and Mrs O responded to say they are relieved that my provisional decision upheld their 
complaint. But they still feel its fair that Highworth contributes to the fees they paid to be 
represented by a solicitor in this matter. They say representation was essential given the 
obstructive conduct demonstrated by Highworth in addressing their complaint. Mr and Mrs O 
say they were unaware of the process and didnt feel confident navigating it themselves 
without this support. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Highworths disappointment with my findings and that this is different to our 
investigators view. However, our process gives the opportunity for either party to request an 
ombudsmans review if they do not accept our investigators findings. My provisional decision 
was based on careful consideration of all the evidence and testimony. Both parties were 
given the opportunity to comment and provide further information, which I have now 
considered. Although I understand Highworths disappointment  our process has been 
followed correctly.
In my provisional decision I said the policy term Highworth relied on to limit the claim to 
£2,000 was restrictive. This was an advised sale and Highworth had recommended this 
cover to Mr and Mrs O. In doing so it had a duty to ensure it recommended cover suitable for 
their needs. The statement of fact it provided included the items claimed for under the 
heading Specified Items (Away from Home) and set out the value of these items. I said a 
reasonable person would expect the policy to provide cover for these items whilst on holiday. 
I didnt think the clause on page 32 of the 46-page policy document sufficiently highlighted 
that the cover only provided for a fraction of the loss Mr and Mrs O would go on to incur.
I note Highworths reference to terms relating to cover provided at home. But I dont think 
this is of relevance here. If specific requirements were intended to apply away from home, 
this should be clearly set out in the policy documentation. I dont think it was.
I acknowledge Highworths point about a policyholder being sent information and being 
expected to read it. I dont dispute this point. But if Highworth recommends a policy to a 
customer, which includes a term significantly limiting the cover provided, it should ensure 
this term is made very clear to the customer upfront. Mr and Mrs O wanted their valuables to 
be covered by the policy. The policy documentation confirmed the full value of these items 
and that they were covered away from home. I dont think by relying solely on the term on 
page 32 of the policy terms and conditions  that Highworth sufficiently highlighted upfront 
the significant limitation this would have on a loss away from home. 
Highworth comments on the interest payment it is being asked to pay, which it thinks is high. 
The interest payment set out in my provisional decision is to reflect the cost to Mr and Mrs O 
of being without a significant sum of money because of Highworths failure to highlight the 
term limiting cover to £2,000. Our service expects that for most individuals a rate at 8% 
simple interest per year is appropriate to reflect the cost of being deprived of a sum of 
money. It is a rate we commonly apply in circumstances such as this, which I think is fair 
here. 
I note Highworths view that delays caused by our service mean it is paying interest for a 
longer period. I acknowledge the point it is making, but the key point here is that it is 
responsible for Mr and Mrs Os claim not being paid at the time it was reported. So, 
Highworth is responsible for the claim not being paid and the associated costs.In my provisional decision I said that there is no requirement to appoint a solicitor when 
pursuing a complaint against Highworth or referring a complaint to our service. I 
acknowledge Mr and Mrs Os point about not being familiar with the process and the 
obstructive conduct from Highworth. But Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs O couldnt have 
referred their complaint to our service unaided. So, I dont think its reasonable for Highworth 
to pay their solicitors fees.  
Having considered all of this Im not persuaded that a change to my decision is required. So, 
my provisional decision now becomes my final decision for the reasons I have explained.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs 
Os complaint. Highworth Insurance Limited should:
make a payment to Mr and Mrs O to cover the remaining part of their loss from the
theft claim, plus 8% simple interest from the date of the loss until payment is
provided. *If Highworth considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs O how much its taken
off. It should also give Mr and Mrs O a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman