DRN-1895141
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Bamboo Limited acted irresponsibly when it accepted her as 
guarantor for a loan it gave to her former partner. She says the loan was not affordable and 
she thinks its unfair that Bamboo wont now remove her as guarantor.
What happened
Ms B entered into a guarantee and indemnity agreement in respect of a £5,000 loan that 
Bamboo provided to her former partner, Mr W, in May 2019. The loan was due to be repaid 
in 18 monthly instalments of £243.18. The total amount payable including interest was about 
£8,765. 
Bamboo says it has received some loan repayments, but the last time it was in touch with 
the borrower Mr W was in July 2019. Ms B has been asked to meet the loan repayments as 
guarantor. She says the loan was unaffordable and that she was pressured into acting as 
guarantor by her former partner Mr W. She says she wasnt informed that the original loan 
application for £6,000 had been cancelled and replaced by a loan for £5,000, and she was 
not given a cooling off period. Ms B wants Bamboo to release her as guarantor. She says 
she cannot afford the repayments and she is no longer in touch with Mr W. Bamboo has 
offered to remove Ms B as guarantor once the principal amount of £5,000 is repaid. But Ms 
B has complained that Bamboo hasnt done enough to support her and that the repayment 
plan put forward by Bamboo is unaffordable.
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Bs complaint. She didn't think that Bamboo had 
been wrong to accept Ms B as guarantor for the loan and that its offer to remove her as 
guarantor once the principal loan sum has been repaid was fair.
Ms B didnt agree with this assessment and asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans 
 including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Bamboo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't act irresponsibly when it 
accepted Ms B as a guarantor for Mr Ws loan application. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what it means for Ms Bs complaint. In doing so, I have asked three key questions:
Did Bamboo obtain Ms Bs properly informed consent to become guarantor for the 
loan?
Did Bamboo carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms B 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower did 
not? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the 
time?
Has Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Bamboo obtain Ms Bs properly informed consent to become guarantor for the loan?
Bamboo says it had several telephone calls with Ms B to discuss her becoming guarantor for 
Mr Ws loan - as well as contact through email and via its website. Ms B had to take steps 
during the process to actively confirm that she was willing to act as loan guarantor. From 
what Ive seen, I think Ms B did agree to guarantee Mr Ws loan and I think its likely that she 
understood that she might be called upon to repay the loan, if Mr W didnt meet the loan 
repayments himself. Ms B has complained that she wasnt fully informed that the amount 
being lent had changed from £6,000 to £5,000. But overall, I think its likely she was aware of 
this reduction. Ms B has also complained that she felt pressured at the time, but Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that Bamboo pressured her into becoming a guarantor or that it 
was reasonably aware that she might be feeling pressured by the borrower.
Did Bamboo carry out reasonable and proportionate checks? If not, what would reasonable 
and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Bamboo had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms B 
would be able repay the loan sustainably, as guarantor, if she was called to do so - as she 
was equally liable with Mr W for this debt. There was no set list of checks that Bamboo had 
to do, but it could take into account a number of different things such as the loan amount, the 
length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the guarantors overall financial 
circumstances. 
Bamboo says it asked Ms B for information about her income and expenditure and it carried 
out some credit checks. Bamboo says that, based on the information Ms B provided and 
what it found in its checks, there was nothing to suggest that Ms B wouldnt be able to afford 
the loan, if she was called upon to make the repayments.
But in the circumstances, I dont think the checks Bamboo carried out were proportionate. 
On the face of it, the information that Ms B provided about her financial position would seem 
to suggest she could have covered the loan repayment each month, if called to do so. But 
given the amount being lent, the repayment amounts and the length of the loan term, I think Bamboo should reasonably have taken steps to further investigate and independently verify 
at least some of the information that Ms B was providing - in order to satisfy itself that Ms B 
could sustainably repay the loan, over an extended 18-months period, if required. 
But even though I think that Bamboo shouldve carried out better checks at the time, it 
doesnt automatically follow that Bamboo was wrong to accept Ms B as a guarantor for the 
loan.
Ms B has provided us with copies of her bank statements so I can determine what Bamboo 
might have discovered, if it had carried out more thorough checks when she applied to 
become the loan guarantor. The statements show that Ms B was regularly overdrawn in the 
month prior to the loan. But she generally stayed near or within her arranged overdraft limit, 
which suggests she was managing her account carefully. Ms B was making transfers into 
her account from a Cash Isa Saver  which might reasonably have given the lender 
confidence that this consumer may have at least some access to savings with which she 
could sustainably repay the loan, if called upon. There is no apparent evidence on the bank 
statements of serious gambling nor is there a significant number of returned requests for 
payment  both of which might have suggested to the lender that this consumer was facing 
severe financial difficulties. Ms Bs income and regular expenses appear to broadly reflect 
what she told Bamboo at the time.
I accept that Ms B has told us about her current financial problems. But I have to consider 
what Bamboo would have discovered at the time, if it had done what I consider to be 
proportionate checks, and whether this should reasonably have led it to conclude that it 
ought to decline her application to guarantee Mr Ws loan.  I cannot fairly say, even if 
Bamboo had carried out better checks, that it should have reasonably concluded that Ms B 
was having serious problems managing her money. Or that she would be unable to afford 
the loan repayments and therefore it ought to decline her application to be loan guarantor. 
I am sorry that Ms B is struggling to repay the loan, but I cant fairly conclude that Bamboo 
shouldnt have accepted her application as loan guarantor or that it acted in a way that was 
irresponsible at the time.
Has Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
It seems that Ms Bs financial circumstances have deteriorated since she agreed to 
guarantee the loan. She says she is no longer in touch with Mr W; that she has lost her job 
and that she cannot now afford to repay the loan in his place. Ms B has provided us with 
information about how another high cost lender has released her from a similar obligation to 
act as guarantor to another loan that was provided to Mr W - after hed taken the Bamboo 
loan. But I have to consider whether Bamboo has acted unreasonably or unfairly towards Ms 
B in the circumstances of this complaint, not in relation to what another lender has decided 
about another, different loan.
As Ive explained, I dont think Bamboo was wrong to accept Ms B as loan guarantor. Ive 
thought carefully about what Ms B has told us about her current situation, but I dont think 
Bamboos offer to remove her as guarantor once the principal sum of £5,000 has been 
repaid is unfair or unreasonable, in the circumstances. 
Ms B is unhappy that Bamboo has continued to request payments from her because Mr W 
cannot or will not repay the loan. I appreciate why she finds the current situation stressful. 
Bamboo says it has tried to limit its communications with her to those that its obliged to send 
under regulatory requirements. And that it has cancelled its authority to take funds from her debit card, so that no further automated payment attempts should be made.
Bamboo also says it has been unsuccessful in contacting the borrower, but that it will not 
expect Ms B to make any loan repayments whilst she is unemployed. 
Taking everything into account I cannot say, in the circumstances, that I think Bamboo has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms B. And I am not going to ask it to do anything 
more. But I remind Bamboo of its obligation to continue to treat Ms B with forbearance and 
due consideration, and to try and agree an affordable repayment plan with her in due course.
I appreciate that Ms B will be disappointed by my decision. I would like to reassure her that I 
have considered everything that both she and Bamboo have told us, but I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint or make any award 
against Bamboo Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman