DRN-3549792
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to assist her when she tried 
to cancel a payment she made using her credit card to acquire a holiday club membership. 
What happened
Mrs W says that while on holiday in December 2017, she and Mr W attended a sales 
meeting in which they were given alcohol and not told the full facts about the holiday product 
they were acquiring. She says she signed the purchase agreement with the holiday product 
provider (the Supplier) and paid the deposit using her Barclays credit card (Barclaycard). 
Three hours later she says she realised she had been mis-sold a holiday membership and 
contacted Barclaycard to cancel her payment but was told this couldnt happen. Mrs W then 
spent the next few days discussing the issues with the Supplier and says she was treated 
unfairly including being told she would need to leave the hotel. In the end Mrs W says it was 
agreed her deposit payment would be used to finance a trial holiday membership. Mrs W 
says she had no choice but to agree to this change and then didnt make use of the holiday 
product due to the additional costs involved to get an all-inclusive holiday.  
Mrs W raised a disputed transaction with Barclays. Barclays apologised for the delay in 
dealing with Mrs Ws complaint and offered to pay her £50 because of this. In its final 
response letter dated February 2021, it said that as the original contract which Mrs W 
attempted to cancel was replaced by a second trial contract, and as the membership was 
available for the duration of the new contract, there was no evidence of a breach of contract 
and so it couldnt assist Mrs W further with this. 
Mrs W referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint. They concluded that:
The initial payment was authorised by Mrs W and Barclays had an obligation to carry 
out her instructions.
Barclays didnt have a record of the call Mrs W made to cancel the transaction but 
explained that it would not have been able to intercept a transaction that had been 
authorised. Our investigator didnt think that Barclays had done anything wrong by 
explaining it wasnt able to stop the transaction at that time.  
Mrs W agreed to trade in her initial agreement and use the payment made for a trial 
membership. Our investigator thought this meant any action that could have been 
taken by Barclays in regard to the initial payment had been superseded by Mrs Ws 
agreement to the new purchase. 
There wasnt sufficient evidence to say that the trial membership Mrs W agreed to 
purchase was misrepresented at the Time of Sale. Therefore, our investigator didnt 
think Barclays decision to turn down Mrs Ws claim for misrepresentation under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (the CCA) was unfair or unreasonable. 
Mrs W didnt agree with our investigators view. She reiterated that she had been mis-led 
into the acquisition of the holiday membership and felt that Barclays should have done more 
to protect her. As a resolution hasnt been agreed, this complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two parts to this complaint. The first relates to the support Barclays provided 
Mrs W when she contacted it about cancelling her payment. The second is about whether 
the trail membership she acquired was misrepresented. I have dealt with these parts 
separately.
Request to cancel payment
Mr and Mrs W signed the purchase agreement for the holiday membership on 
17 December 2017. Mrs W paid the deposit for the purchase using her Barclaycard. She 
says she decided to cancel the agreement a few hours after signing and contacted Barclays 
to cancel her payment. 
Unfortunately, I do not have a recording of the call and no call notes are available so I 
cannot say what Mrs W was told at the time. However, as she had authorised the payment, I 
cannot say that Barclays was wrong to act on this instruction. As the payment was being 
processed it explained it couldnt be cancelled at that time. I do not find I can say this 
information was incorrect at the time. So, without further details of what was discussed I do 
not find I can say that Barclays provided Mrs W with incorrect information when she called.
Mrs W then spent the next few days in discussions with the Supplier about exiting her 
purchase agreement. I have seen copies of the emails exchanged and references to 
meetings held. However, these were with the Supplier and not Barclays and I have nothing 
to suggest that Mrs W made further contact with Barclays to ask for advice or assistance. As 
Barclays was unaware of the ongoing discussions, I cannot say that it was required to take 
any further action at that time.
Mrs W then agreed with the Supplier that her deposit payment would be used to pay for a 
trial membership. This was a separate agreement with the Supplier and Mr and Mrs W 
signed a new contract dated 26 December 2017. Therefore, any action that may have been 
required in regard to the first agreement was no longer relevant. 
Misrepresentation of the trial membership
Mrs W says that the trial membership was misrepresented to her, and she didnt use it due 
to the additional costs involved. 
Barclays said that there was no evidence of a breach of contract in its final response letter. 
While Barclays didnt refer directly to Section 75 of the CCA in its response or reference 
misrepresentations, given the complaint raised and Barclays response I think it reasonable 
that our investigator considered the complaint about how Barclays had responded to 
Mrs Ws claim in regard to Section 75.
For a claim to be upheld under Section 75 of the CCA, there needs to have been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. Having looked at the information provided by Mrs W, I can 
see that she was given information about payments for holidays as part of her contract and that she signed this. Therefore, in the absence of further evidence, I do not find I can say 
that the additional costs involved in the holiday meant there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. As I have no evidence of there being a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation, I do not find that I can say Barclays was wrong to not uphold her 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman