DRN-3360574
The complaint
Miss G complains that Next Retail Limited (Next) irresponsibly gave her a running 
account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 19 May 2015, Miss G applied for a revolving credit account with Next. She was given 
an initial credit limit of £450. The credit limit was suspended from June 2015 to October 
2016 when a credit limit of £100 was provided. The credit limit was increased on 2 
January 2017 to £3000 and on 22 April 2017 to £3750. 
In 2021, Miss G complained to Next to say that the account shouldnt have been opened 
for her because it wasnt affordable and that Next ought to have made a better effort to 
understand her financial circumstances before increasing her credit limits.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss G didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Next will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach 
to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases of credit 
and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the specifics into question, so, I 
dont intend to cover them off here. 
Miss Gs complaint is that Next made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Miss G has not been able to 
provide any bank statements from the times in question. Next has explained that it carried 
out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to 
offer. Its possible that Next failed to make adequate checks before providing Miss G with 
credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Next to think 
the initial credit limits or the credit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest and the maximum monthly payments 
for that credit were also relatively modest. At the time the credit limit rose to £3000, the 
account had been well managed by Miss G for 18 months and Miss G was not using 
anything close to the full credit limit available to her when the limits were raised. I have 
noted that the screenshots of an account, provided by Miss G, from around that time seem 
to show Miss G having more income than she remembered having when she provided 
some testimony about her income. And the screenshots also show that the income into 
her account was greater than the payments going out of the account in the months before 
the credit was offered. I also note the balances were in credit.   
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss G to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Next to think that the credit it provided 
Miss G was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Miss G was managing 
her account or what Next could see of her management of other credit ought to have 
prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Miss G will be disappointed with my decision, but having considered all the 
submissions in this case, particularly those at the time of the credit and the credit increases, 
I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman