DRN-3785104
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs T are unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined a claim made 
on a travel insurance policy in respect of Mrs T.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs T had the benefit of a travel insurance policy connected to Mrs Ts credit card 
account (the policy). They travelled abroad in July 2021 and, unfortunately, whilst away, 
Mrs T became unwell and sought medical attention. She had a chest scan which revealed a 
bilateral pulmonary embolism, and she was admitted to hospital for treatment. 
Assistance was sought from IPA under the policy but, ultimately, after requesting and 
reviewing Mrs Ts medical history, IPA declined cover under the policy. Thats because Mrs 
T had been diagnosed with a pulmonary embolism in 2018. IPA concluded that the treatment 
she required whilst abroad was directly linked to a pre-existing medical condition as defined 
by the policy, so not covered.
Unhappy, Mrs T complained to IPA, but it maintained its position to decline the claim. 
Mr G and Mrs T then referred a complaint to our service which wasnt upheld by our 
investigator. He didnt think IPA had unfairly declined the claim. 
Mr G and Mrs T disagree and have requested an Ombudsmans decision. So, I need to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IPA has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. I know Mr G and Mrs T will be very disappointed with my decision but for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain, I dont uphold their complaint.
Subject to the terms and conditions, the policy does provide cover for medical assistance 
and expenses. But the policy also reflects that it wont pay for claims directly or indirectly as 
a result of pre-existing medical conditions (page 17 of the policy terms and conditions).
Under the policy, pre-existing medical condition(s) means:
any past or current Medical Condition that, during the 2 years prior to You applying 
for Your Card and any Cards on Your Account, or prior to any Trip (whichever is the 
most recent), has given rise to symptoms or for which any form of treatment or 
prescribed medication, medical consultation, investigation or follow-up/check-up has 
been required or received; and any cardiovascular or circulatory condition (e.g. heart 
condition, hypertension, blood clots, raised cholesterol, stroke, aneurysm) that has 
occurred at any time (my emphasis) prior to You applying for Your Card and any 
Cards on Your Account, or prior to any Trip (whichever is the most recent).
Mrs Ts GP records reflect that Mrs T had been diagnosed with a pulmonary embolism in 
2018 - which was prior to the trip abroad. The NHS website reflects that a pulmonary 
embolism often happens when part of the blood clot dislodges itself from a leg and travels to 
the lungs, causing a blockage. Having carefully considered the medical records whilst Mrs T 
was abroad, Im satisfied that IPA has fairly and reasonably concluded that the treatment 
Mrs T required medical treatment for whilst abroad in 2021 was a result of a pre-existing 
medical condition as defined by the policy. 
When making this finding, Ive taken into account all points made by Mrs Ts representative, 
including whats said about the policy defining pre-existing medical condition differently to 
the travel insurance policy terms relating to other credit cards issued by the same credit card 
provider.
I can understand why Mrs Ts representative makes this point because in the circumstances 
of this case, its possible that Mrs Ts condition wouldnt have been treated as a pre-existing 
medical condition under the other policy terms our service has been provided with.
However, Im satisfied that the claim has been assessed against the correct policy terms. Its 
not uncommon for insurance policies to contain different definitions, even if underwritten by 
the same insurers and generally we dont think thats unfair. Its for the insurer to decide the 
terms of cover based on their level of risk for different policies they underwrite. So, Im not 
persuaded that this means IPA has acted unfairly by relying on the definition of pre-exiting 
medical condition which forms part of the policys terms and conditions that Mr G and Mrs T 
had the benefit of to decline the claim. And Ive seen nothing which persuades me that 
theyve been treated any differently to other policyholders who wouldve had had the benefit 
of the same policy terms. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman