DRN-2645148
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was mis-sold an annuity by Medical Money Management (MMM).
What happened
Mr H had two personal pension plans with a combined value of around £88,000. In 2011 he 
wanted to start taking benefits from these plans. He was 63 at the time and had some health 
issues. He and his wife had an income of £1,200 per month which was less than their 
expenditure of around £1,400 per month. In order to meet this shortfall the couple had been 
encashing investments and savings during the previous few years. They originally thought 
they could eek out their monies until Mr H reached state retirement age and would be 
receiving his state pension, however they had realised they needed to access Mr Hs 
pensions earlier.
MMM advised him to buy level income, enhanced annuities with a five-year guarantee period 
which provided Mr H with around £22,000 in tax free cash and an annual income of around 
£4,365 per year. The annuities also provided a 50% spouses pension on Mr Hs death.
In 2020 Mr H, through a representative (R), complained to MMM about the advice he had 
received. R said Mr H wasnt given a fair and balanced comparison about available 
alternatives to an annuity. R said Mr H should have been advised to take out a low-cost, low 
risk drawdown plan which would have provided better benefits over the years. They also 
said the risks of a level income annuity, i.e. the decrease in purchasing power due to 
inflation over the years, had not been explained to Mr H.
Chase de Vere, on behalf of MMM, rejected the complaint. R then referred the complaint to 
this service. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint either. She thought the advice to 
buy an enhanced annuity had been suitable in Mr Hs circumstances.
R disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to not uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Based on the evidence Ive seen Mr H and his wife had a low income and depended on 
Mr Hs pension benefits to meet their day-to-day expenditure. He and his wife had eroded 
any existing savings and investments, so had no emergency funds to fall back on. I dont 
think he had any capacity for loss and in a letter dated 22 July 2011, it was noted that in 
relation to his annuity purchase Mr H had taken a cautious attitude to risk. So I think taking 
his benefits in form of a secure, guaranteed annuity-which was enhanced due to Mr Hs 
health issues-was suitable in the circumstances.
MMM issued a suitability report to Mr H which said that the possibility of an income 
drawdown had been reviewed. However, whilst the report says a drawdown could provide 
significant benefits, particularly if the value of the fund increased, it said there was also a risk 
the funds could reduce and the income from a drawdown could be exhausted. MMM 
concluded the risks of this happening were too great in Mr Hs circumstances. So I think 
Mr H was made aware of the alternative of a drawdown plan, but this was-reasonably in my 
opinion-ruled out in favour of an annuity which provided a secure income for life with an 
enhanced rate due to Mr Hs ill health.
I also considered Rs argument about the risk of a level income annuity. I can see that the 
suitability report said: 
We discussed the different types of annuity that are available and realised that if you elected 
for an increasing annuity the initial income would be significantly lower than the level 
annually on commencement and would take several years to simply catch up.
So Im satisfied different annuities were discussed. I dont know in how much detail an 
increasing annuity was discussed and whether Mr H was informed about the risk of inflation 
when choosing a level annuity. But even if he wasnt, I dont think its more likely than not Mr 
H would have opted for an increasing annuity instead and therefore would be in a different 
position than he is now. The report said it would have taken several years for the increasing 
annuity to match the income of a level income annuity. And I note that for Mr H to actually be 
better off, the increasing annuity would have to make up the difference in income over the 
past few years first, which would have taken even longer. Mr H had health issues, so its not 
unreasonable to assume choosing an annuity which would give higher benefits in the short 
to medium term might have looked more attractive to him. So even if Mr H wasnt given all 
the information about the risks of inflation-and I dont know whether he was or not-I dont 
think the advice to take out a level annuity was unsuitable for him or that he would have 
made a different choice with more information.
R makes the argument that Mr H could have made up the shortfall between his income and 
his expenditure with the tax-free cash sum for several years and could have chosen to keep 
the remainder of his benefits invested in low risk funds in a drawdown plan. I agree that this 
was an available option for Mr H. However, I dont agree with R that an income drawdown 
plan would have been low risk and that the probability of Mr H obtaining a higher retirement 
income through such an arrangement would have been very high. R also didnt provide any 
reasons why Mr H should have waited to take his benefits. The tax-free cash surely would 
have bridged the gap between income and expenditure for some time, but it was prudent for 
Mr H to have some emergency savings and I cant see that Mr H wouldnt have benefitted 
from an increased income. 
I appreciate that the risk of fluctuation in low risk investments, for example in government 
bonds as R suggests, would have been lower than for example in equities. However, lower 
risk investments also tend to come with lower returns and this increases the risks of any 
returns being outweighed or significantly decreased by ongoing charges. R said Mr H had no 
investment experience and so in order to make sure his benefits were suitably invested and 
able to sustain an income at least as high as an enhanced annuity in the long term, he 
reasonably would have needed ongoing advice which would have further increased the 
costs. 
Taking a regular income from the fund and low returns might have led to Mr Hs pension 
fund being exhausted before he died, not being able to sustain a 50% spouses pension for 
his wife after his death or reduce his income later in retirement. These were real risks that 
shouldnt be underestimated in my opinion. Given how much Mr H relied on his pension income I think the risk of his pension fund being 
exhausted or his income decreasing, even if temporarily or by a small amount, didnt suit his 
circumstances. Mr R didnt have the capacity to take these risks.
In summary I think MMM gave Mr H suitable advice when recommending an enhanced 
annuity.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman