DRN-3351014
The complaint
Mr C complains that Assetz SME Capital Limited has treated him unfairly when
administering his crowdfunding accounts. Hes unhappy with changes made to the
withdrawal system, which he says has caused him to lose out.
What happened
Mr C has held a number of crowdfunding accounts on Assetzs peer to peer (P2P) lending
platform  this includes a quick access account (QAA). Mr C first invested in a QAA in
February 2017.
One of the features of Mr Cs QAA was that when an account holder made a request to
withdraw funds, it would be placed on the secondary market immediately for sale. Assetz
provide other types of access accounts but these had a waiting period of between 30 and 90
days before withdrawal requests would be placed on the secondary market.
In March 2020, Assetz informed customers due to the abnormal market conditions caused
by the global pandemic, it needed to initially pause withdrawal requests whilst a review of the
situation was carried out in order to put in place a queuing system. From 19 March, a
queuing system was put in place that involved a flat distribution of funds. Assetz explained
the method divides the amount to be distributed equally amongst all lenders on a per
withdrawing account basis.
Mr C complained to Assetz about the changes being introduced. He said they were
discriminatory against investors in the QAA.
In May 2020, Assetz responded to the complaint  it didnt uphold it. It said the changes
were made in line with its terms and conditions, which allows it to make changes if it
reasonably believes them to be in the interests of the lending members as a whole. It said
the introduction of the queuing system was a difficult decision to make and various options
were assessed. But it had not been possible to treat all lenders equally, so endeavoured to
be as fair as possible by ensuring the largest number of lenders had access to some of their
funds as soon as possible.
In June 2020, Assetz made a further change to the withdrawal process. This meant as funds
become available for withdrawal, they were allocated to an investors withdrawal request on
a pro-rata basis directly related to each investors total investment in that loan they are
withdrawing from, not the size of their withdrawal request. This process reduced a lenders
withdrawal request by the sum withdrawn under the pro-rata allocation process.
Mr C continued to discuss his complaint and raised further concerns. He said Assetz
informed him the provision fund  which helped cover payments to bad loans - would no
longer provide this support. Because of this, he took the decision to sell his loans on the 
newly introduced access account marketplace. By August 2020, Mr C had sold all of his loan 
parts. But he believes he has lost out financially because of the withdrawal systems Assetz 
put in place.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022. I didnt uphold the complaint  this is what I 
said:
Firstly, Ive looked at how the QAA was described to Mr C when he first invested in 2017.
Assetz has provided screen shots of how the QAA was described  these say:
We have designed the Quick Access Account to provide you with a fair return on your
investment, while providing you with the fastest possible access to your cash in normal
market conditions
And
In normal market conditions, transferring funds between Assetz Capital Investment
Accounts should happen within seconds, while complete withdrawal of funds from our
platform should take two days.
Assetz has also provided detail of the following warning on QAA account dashboard:
The QAA is designed to provide immediate access to your cash, in normal market
conditions, should you wish to sell your investment and return your cash for another
purpose, though access times cannot be guaranteed.
So, it does appear from this information that Mr C could expect to withdraw funds quickly
and not expect to be in a queuing system. But it is important to note that there is a reference
to normal market conditions applying. Assetz has provided detail of the FAQ document that
was held on its website that provided the definition for normal market conditions at the time
Mr C first invested in the QQA. This says:
What is Assetz Capitals definition of normal market conditions?
Normal market conditions means conditions that are broadly what we have at the moment.
This means economic conditions are reasonably stable, lenders are making withdrawals
from the Quick Access Account (QAA) or 30 Day Access Account (30DAA), together known
as the Access Accounts, in the normal course of business and other lenders are willing and
able to buy their loan parts through that account and others that we offer. In addition, the
Access Accounts also hold a certain amount of cash liquid to help increase the liquidity of
withdrawal requests above and beyond normal market supply and demand. The result of the
Access Accounts operation and the normal market conditions we have enjoyed to date is
that every lender has had their withdrawal request carried out when they requested since the
accounts opened for investment.
Nonetheless past performance should not be taken as a guide to the future and abnormal
market conditions could conceivably change the speed of withdrawals. Abnormal market
conditions would be if there was a very large, sudden and extended demand to withdraw
cash from the Access Accounts. This might be caused by a global recession, an abrupt and
widespread loss of faith in peer-to-peer lending or any number of other situations. If, for a
sustained period, a significant number of lenders chose to withdraw their cash in significant
quantities and no (or few) new lenders were available to buy their loan parts, conditions
would at that point be abnormal and the Access Accounts would not be then able to maintain
their current speed of access for withdrawals.
Ultimately this could mean that lenders may have to wait until a buyer could be found for
their loans held within the Access Accounts, or until the loans were repaid over time by the
borrowers. The latter situation arises due to the loans within the Access Accounts having
monthly repayments being made by borrowers or by loans naturally reaching the end of theirterm for full repayment. This repayment of loans should continue to create some capital,
which would be available for withdrawal by investors regardless of market conditions being
abnormal. This is the reason that we quote the in normal market conditions message
everywhere that we refer to Access Account withdrawal times; we cannot guarantee access
times in all possible economic scenarios and we want our lenders to understand that.
Assetz communicated to investors in March 2020 that normal market conditions ended. It
cited the excessive volatility on the financial markets as a result of the impact of the global
pandemic. And its analysis of the access accounts behaviour confirmed it was seeing
extreme activity around that time. It told customers in a March 2020 blog post on its website
that it had seen an imbalance created on Thursday 12th March 2020 between withdrawals
and deposits that it had not seen before and couldnt allow that to continue without a positive
intervention. So, initially it suspended the withdrawal system operation for access accounts
before later introducing the flat distribution system.
Having considered the information Assetz has provided, Im satisfied that it has provided
sufficient evidence to support its assertion that normal market conditions ceased in March
2020  due to the impact of the global pandemic. So, it follows that I think it was a
reasonable decision for it to take action and inform customers that that it wouldnt be able to
operate accounts in the way it had been during normal conditions.
Mr C believes the changes unilaterally revised the product he applied for and this would
amount to a breach of regulation. I can appreciate why he feels the queueing system meant
he lost the advantage of having an account that gave him quicker access to funds. I also
acknowledge that Mr C was receiving a lower target interest rate than customers in the 30-
and 90-day accounts  and this does seem to be linked to speed of withdrawal access
between the different types of account. But as explained above, Assetz did detail on its
website that the operation of the account and withdrawal process was dependent on normal
market conditions. As I have accepted the explanation given by Assetz that normal market
condition ended in March 2020, I cant agree that Mr C has been treated unfairly compared
to other customers in this respect. It follows that I dont find this supports that Assetz has
failed in its responsibilities to Mr C.
Mr C believes the changes Assetz made were contrary to regularity guidance on the fairness
of variation terms. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions Assetz has provided that were in
place when Mr C first invested in his QAA. There isnt any specific term that covers the
appropriation of the secondary market or the withdrawal system. So, it doesnt seem Mr C
had a contractual right to exit from loans that had been allocated to his account before
maturity. But there is a term that relates to loan selections that I think has relevance to the
situation Im considering. This explains:
Section 6. Loan Selection facilities
. The Assetz Capital Companies can remove, suspend or alter the terms of any Loan
Selection Facility at any time although this will not affect Micro Loans already acquired under
that facility.
While this doesnt make specific refence to the withdrawal system, it does reference Assetzs
ability to change or suspend the way in which loans are distributed. I believe there is a link
between the loan selection facility and the ability to withdraw from loans. Ive noted Mr C
doesnt believe this term was in the original contract he signed up to  Assetz has told me
these are the relevant terms  if Mr C has a different set of terms, he should provide these
for me to consider. This term remained in those that were in place in March 2020  so it
doesnt appear anything changed in the terms in this respect. So, I havent found that Assetz
did actually vary a specific term relating to its withdrawal system but rather it made acommercial decision to amend the operation if its access accounts.
As explained above, Mr C has made reference to legislation and regulatory guidance for
variation clauses in consumer contracts. The terms and conditions Assetz has provided do
have a variation clause contained within them  which it says allows it to amend the terms.
The relevant term is:
Section 20. Altered Circumstances and Changes to The Terms
1. If there is a change in circumstances or a change in the law, HM Revenue & Customs
practice or regulations or the interpretation of them, or if any Assetz Capital Company
wishes to make changes to the services which it provides on the Network or Website,
the Assetz Capital Companies may amend these Terms from time to time as they think fit.
2. Where a change to these Terms does not affect existing Micro Loans and does not
disadvantage existing Lending Members or where the changes are reasonably believed by
the Assetz Capital Companies to be in the interests of the Lending Members,
the Assetz Capital Companies may make any amendments to these Terms at any time with
immediate effect. Where it is necessary or desirable to make changes to these Terms which
affect existing Micro Loans or may disadvantage existing Lending Members,
the Assetz Capital Companies will endeavour to provide 30 days notice before any changes
take effect. Any such notice shall be posted on the Website.
3. Any amendments will be posted on the Website as soon as reasonably practicable. By
continuing to use the Website, by either logging in or leaving investments within Investment
Accounts or Access Accounts on a daily basis, each Lending Member agrees to be bound
by the amended Terms.
But as I explained above there isnt a specific term relating to withdrawal methods. So, while
I have taken account of regulatory guidance on the factors financial services firms should
consider under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 when drafting and reviewing variation terms
in their consumer contracts, this isnt strictly speaking a unilateral change in terms. Ive also
considered the wider regulatory principles that place responsibility upon Assetz. The most
relevant being:
Principle 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Principle 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
The withdrawal system Assetz introduce on the 19 March 2020 was a flat distribution of
funds. This meant that when funds became available for withdrawal, the amount to be
distributed was equally divided amongst all lenders on a per withdrawing account basis. This
did lead to account holders with smaller amounts invested receiving the same level of
withdrawal as larger investors. But Assetz say it did mean a larger number of account
holders overall were given access to funds.
Assetz says it was a difficult decision to introduce the withdrawal system, but the aim was to
ensure the largest number of lenders would have reasonable access to some of their funds
as soon as possible. Im conscious Assetz does need to balance the needs of all of its
lending members. So, I dont think it is a simple as it seeking to discriminate against different
groups of customers when they have competing needs. But it does need to show that it has
treated customers fairly in its consideration of how to implement changes to the operation of
accounts. Im also conscious that if Assetz had allowed larger lenders to make full significant
withdrawals, this would have negatively impacted smaller investors. Indeed, it says if ithadnt introduced a withdrawal system and left it as a first in, first out approach, a small
number of large withdrawals would have stopped withdrawals for the majority of lenders,
including Mr Cs requests. Assetz has provided data to this service to support this claim. It
says this information is commercially sensitive. Im able to accept information in confidence
and Im satisfied its appropriate to do so here. Im satisfied it has demonstrated why it didnt
think it would be fair for the vast majority of its customers to allow the withdrawals method to
remain unchanged in light of the prevailing circumstances in March 2020.
Assetz did make a further update to the withdrawal system in June 2020. This amendment
meant rather than a flat distribution from the queue, a pro rata system allowed withdrawals to
be linked to the amount invested in accounts. I can see why this system is favourable to the
flat distribution. It provides a better way of reflecting requests to withdraw by taking into
account the amount individuals lenders have on the platform. So, I think this change
supports that Assetz were seeking to treat its customers fairly  and I find this change was in
Mr Cs best interests.
Ive questioned Assetz why it didnt introduce this system straight away. It says when it
realised it needed to make changes to the withdrawals system in March 2020, it established
it would require significant work to develop a pro-rata system  and this would cause a
material delay to withdrawals. As it already had the coding to enable flat rate  as it was
used for other accounts it operated  it implemented this system first, on a temporary basis
until it could develop the code, test and deploy the pro-rata system. It says taking this
approach was considered fairer to no withdrawals at all or a handful of large withdrawals
monopolising all funds available for withdrawal for a prolonged period. Im satisfied Assetz
has provided a reasonable explanation for why it wasnt able to implement the pro-rata
system when it first realised the impact the pandemic was having on market conditions.
Mr C has raised concern about his ability to exit the contract if he didnt accept the changes
brought in. The ability to withdraw funds is based on the operation of the secondary market
Assetz provides. This allows investors to exit early from loan agreements  and this is based
on a number of factors  including the amount of new investors, cash available for
distribution, the frequency and amount of loan repayments due. But the ability to withdraw
early from a loan isnt guaranteed  and is always dependent on demand from other
available buyers. Assetz says it only prevented withdrawals by suspending this function for
one week in March 2020  when it was reacting to the circumstances surrounding the global
pandemic before introducing the queuing system. Assetz has already confirmed that had it
made no changes, Mr C would not have been able to withdraw his funds sooner because a
small number of large lenders would have taken up all the available funds. So, I havent
found the changes were designed to prevent an exit. Indeed, they gave Mr C more
possibility to withdraw his investment than had nothing been changed. Mr C says he
wouldnt have complained if Assetz just suspended withdrawals until market conditions
improved and then restarted withdrawals in the normal way. When considering Assetzs
broader responsibilities to its customers, I dont think it would have been fairer to suspend
withdrawals indefinitely until market conditions changed. I say this particularly in light of the
uncertainty in March 2020 caused by the global pandemic.
Mr C has also raised concerns that once Assetz introduced the access account marketplace
in August 2020, he was forced to sell his investments promptly if he wanted to continue with
his complaint. He says the secondary market mechanism was opaque because it only told
investors what discount they would have to offer at that moment in order to sell at that
moment; there was no transparency on the layers of discount offered by others and
therefore no opportunity to judge how much of a discount to offer against how long it might
take for the loan parts to sell at that discount. He says he felt forced to mitigate his losses
and sell at a discount following an e-mail from Assetz on 25 August 2020, warning that loans
with new credit issues would cease to be tradable unless and until new provision fundingbecame available through new investment. He thinks Assetz were either keeping back bad
news or forced by the regulator to make this announcement so soon after opening the
marketplace.
I understand Mr Cs strength of feeling and why he has formed his opinion  particularly as
he felt he had no choice but to sell his loan parts at a loss. The access marketplace
provided investors with an opportunity to withdraw funds by selecting a discount they were
prepared to sell at in order to speed up the withdrawal. I dont think there is sufficient
evidence to support the view that Assetz deliberately caused the losses Mr C claims. Im
conscious that the decision to sell loans at a discount was his choice. When explaining the
marketplace Assetz told customers:
Its important to understand that any discounts that you may choose to offer are at the 
discretion of each investor based on their personal liquidity needs and are not a decision 
made by other investors or by Assetz Capital. Discounts are entirely optional and may help 
speed the early withdrawal of capital from loan investments if you offer them, otherwise 
withdrawals will continue in the same manner as before.
Mr C feels he had no choice but to mitigate but I cant agree that Assetz can be held
responsible for this. Im satisfied the introduction of the marketplace was to allow further
liquidity for investors who no longer wanted to remain in loans. This was an individual choice
for investors to make. The 25 August 2020 update did provide information to let customers
know there was a risk that loans could become untradeable if they run into payment
problems, but I havent seen evidence to support this was because Assetz had deliberately
sought to disadvantage Mr C. The overarching risk when investing in P2P lending is that
loans fail to perform, secondary markets and provisions funds help customers to alleviate
some of this risk, but neither are guaranteed to prevent losses. For similar reasons to those
that Ive covered on the introduction of the withdrawal system, I dont find Assetz has treated
Mr C unfairly in the way it introduced the option of selling using a discount or through the
later updates it made.
Having reviewed all of the evidence provided, I havent found that the changes Assetz made
in 2020 to the QAA amount to Mr C being treated unfairly. I say this because:
Assetz has demonstrated that during the period from March 2020, market conditions
were abnormal  leading to a justification to make changes. There is a balance to be
drawn between the needs of individual customers like Mr C and making decisions for
the whole customer base.
There were no guarantees of making early withdrawals.
The withdrawal system introduced aimed to give customers access to funds early 
which is what they were seeking. The ability to access funds was driven by new
investors taking on loan parts and repayments coming in for existing loans. The 
market conditions from March 2020, impacted the above. So, in these circumstances, 
I dont find it unfair that Mr C had to wait to receive all of the withdrawals he 
requested.
All investors who wanted to withdraw were in the same situation  in being reliant on
payments from borrowers to generate funds to withdraw. I dont find that any 
individual investor has claim over another. And I think its within the scope of Assetzs 
commercial judgment to decide how to allocate repayments.
The withdrawal system Assetz put in place initially and later updated was fair in the
situation where repayments were less than withdrawal requests. The initial flat
distribution sought to split payments equally  which is fairer than a first come, first
served approach, which would have skewed against many investors. And then a few
months later adding a layer of proportionality to the amount invested was an equitable approach.
So, I do understand why Mr C would have preferred Assetz to take different actions. But this
doesnt mean Assetz has treated him unfairly by the changes it made.
Mr C responded to say he didnt accept the provisional decision. In summary he said 
- His complaint has been misrepresented and the decision appears to be answering 
issues which have never been raised by him as a concern. 
- When he first spoke to the ombudsman service in June 2021, he was told that the 
impact of the decision on Assetz would be taken into account. In other words, the 
greater the issue (and therefore the larger the number of complaints), the greater the 
financial impact there would be on Assetz if a finding was made against them  so 
this made it less likely we would find against Assetz. 
- He believes the changes Assetz made were (i) contrary to regulatory guidance on the 
fairness of variation terms; (ii) the scope of the changes was not in the reasonable 
contemplation of the parties at the time of contract entry and were therefore not 
authorised; and (iii) the application of the contra proferentem rule on standard term 
contracts means that the variation clause in the terms and conditions would be 
interpreted restrictively and against the person who drafted it (i.e. Assetz).
- The Ombudsman needs to consider the specific guidance contained in the FCAs 
paper FG18 / 7: Fairness of variation terms in financial services consumer contracts 
under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and not just the vague FCA Principles 6 and 7. 
FG18/7 stipulates that the more extreme the change, the more specific the variation 
clause drafting has to be. The total discretion afforded to Assetz in Section 20 is 
totally at odds with giving it the right to effect changes that discriminate between sub-
sets of investors, particularly when Assetz could have avoided this by applying a 
common interest rate to all investments from the various accounts  (QAA, 30-Day AA 
and 90-Day AA) which were stuck in the pool and were being treated on an equal 
(rather than priority) basis. 
- The ombudsman fails to explain the justification for not giving all the investors stuck 
in the withdrawal pool the same interest rate once the relative withdrawal priorities of 
the accounts had been done away with. He questions why a 90 Day AA investor 
should be given a higher rate of interest when the risk it is taking once in the pool is 
the same as a QAA investor. He believes Assetz should have (i) delayed all 
withdrawals until it had sorted the pro-rata system out; and (ii) equalised the interest 
rates applicable to withdrawal requests languishing in the pool. Both of these 
measures would have lessened (although not eliminated) the discrimination. Had 
Assetz just suspended withdrawals until market conditions improved and then 
restarted withdrawals in the normal way he would not have complained, as that is 
what he signed up to.
- In respect of Section 6. Loan Selection facilities of the terms and conditions, Mr C 
questions whether this was included in the terms that he agreed to when he first 
invested. But he said its inclusion or exclusion at the applicable time is irrelevant to 
his argument, which in essence is that in order for a variation clause to allow 
discriminatory changes of the kind undertaken by Assetz, such variation clause 
would have to expressly allow for such discriminatory changes. Had Assetz included 
any such express wording, he would never have invested in the access accounts as 
he would have regarded this to be totally unacceptable. Section 6 does not expressly 
allow for discriminatory behaviour, and as such cannot be used for such purpose.
- In respect of his decision to exit the QAA  he said on 25 August 2020 Assetz sent a 
warning by email that the provision fund would not be sufficient going forward and 
that loans with new credit issues would cease to be tradable unless and until new 
provision funding became available through new investment. Assetzs actions meant 
investors are unlikely to commit new funds given the fundamental changes to the way in which the way accounts operate. This resulted in investors being locked in 
and unable to exit. 
- Section 20 of the terms and conditions (which Mr C deems to be unfair) forces 
investors to sell their investments in the access accounts if they are not happy with 
the terms applicable to such accounts (as varied from time to time), as otherwise 
they are deemed to agree with them. He was forced to sell his QAA investment 
promptly if he wanted to continue with his complaint, as this clause would otherwise 
have acted as a whitewash. The longer he left his withdrawal, the more difficult his 
complaint would become to sustain. The precise timing of his exit was determined by 
Assetzs market-spooking announcement on 25 August 2020 (mentioned above). He 
said the timing of the announcement was very strange, coming so soon after the 
secondary market had opened. It looked as though Assetz had been deliberately 
keeping the bad news back, or alternatively (and worse) that the FCA had been 
monitoring the situation and had insisted that Assetz make the disclosure.  
Assetz responded to say it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I think it would be helpful to clarify some of the broader points Mr C makes about the 
purpose of the Financial Ombudsman Service and the basis for my determination of his 
complaint. 
Within Mr C s submissions he has made refence to terms in his contract with Assetz and 
questioned the legality of the changes introduced. Its not for me to decide whether a term is 
fair or not  that is something only a court can decide. But as a regulated financial business 
Assetz is under an obligation to treat its customers fairly. And the obligation I am under is to 
consider what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. 
The FCA handbook sets out in section DISP 3.6 Determination by the Ombudsman the 
basis for which Im required to decide Mr Cs complaint. This says: 
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
And it goes on to say under DISP 3.6.4:
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the 
Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
This is what Ive done in deciding Mr Cs complaint. This includes the FCAs guidance 
FG18/7: Fairness of variation terms in financial services consumer contracts under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015. It also includes the wider principles that that place responsibility 
upon Assetz. The most relevant being:Principle 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Principle 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Mr C has questioned whether the wider financial impact on a business makes it less likely for a 
complaint to be upheld. The potential cost to a business of paying an award doesnt bear any 
relevance to the decision making of what is fair and reasonable  this includes the considerations of 
his complaint.  
Having reviewed the further submission Mr C has made in response to my provisional 
decision, I havent found reason to change the outcome I reached. Ill explain why. 
Ive considered the further comments Mr C has made about the impact of the changes 
Assetz introduced to the withdrawal system. Assetz has explained the decisions it made 
were an attempt to deal with the impact the global pandemic was having on its P2P platform. 
While Assetz says it made changes in the interest of its customers, Mr C maintains they 
were discriminatory changes. 
Mr C refers to the section 20 of the terms and conditions  a variation clause, which he 
views as an unfair term. He says the changes Assetz made were contrary to regulatory 
guidance on the fairness of variation terms, the scope of them was unreasonable and any 
ambiguity in the terms should be interpreted restrictively against Assetz.  The FCAs 
guidance on variation terms confirms that they are common in financial services consumer 
contracts - particularly where the contracts are of long or indeterminate duration (like Mr Cs 
P2P account). It goes to say firms might legitimately need to make changes to their contracts 
in certain circumstances  but still need to consider whether a unilateral variation term is 
necessary or appropriate, taking into account the legitimate interests of both parties to a 
contract before including it. 
As explained in my provisional decision, there isnt a specific term that indicates how the 
distribution of withdrawals from sales on the secondary market should occur. So, I cant say 
that Assetz made a specific contractual variation when it introduced the flat distribution 
system  but it did make a commercial decision to amend the operation of its access 
accounts.  I referred to Section 6 of the terms having relevance to the situation as this made 
reference to Assetz being able to suspend or alter the loan selection facility. 
Mr C says Section 6 does not expressly allow for discriminatory behaviour, and as such 
cannot be used for such purpose. While I accept Mr C feels that the changes were 
discriminatory, I dont agree. For the reasons explained in my provisional decision, Im 
persuaded that when introducing changes to the withdrawal system, Assetz was attempting 
to balance the needs of all of its customers. Mr C maintains that the changes Assetz made 
discriminated against him and thinks Assetz should have acted differently in light of the 
impact of the pandemic on the P2P market. But clearly Assetz needed to make decisions 
based on all of its customer base. Mr C has said what his preferred way of dealing with the 
liquidity issues and why this would have given a better outcome. But investors in a different 
position to him would likely take a different view (e.g. not agreeing that pausing withdrawals 
indefinitely was favourable). No individual investor or subgroup of investors had a claim over 
another, so Assetz needed to make decisions on this basis. I havent seen anything within 
the terms and conditions that suggest there was a contractual guarantee to withdraw funds 
early via the secondary market. So, I think its within the scope of Assetzs commercial 
judgment to decide how to allocate repayments.   
Mr C says Assetz could have applied a common interest rate to all investments from the 
various access accounts (QAA, 30-Day AA and 90-Day AA) while waiting for withdrawals. 
He questions why a 90 Day AA investor should be given a higher rate of interest when the 
risk level, once in the withdrawal pool, is the same as a QAA investor. I understand Mr Cs point  in that the lack of liquidity from mid-March 2020 meant that the usual deferral periods 
following a withdrawal request had become somewhat redundant. But as explained in my 
provisional decision, the operation of these accounts was dependent on normal market 
conditions applying  which Assetz say ended in mid-March 2020. While I understand why 
Mr C would have wanted a readjustment of interest rates when the withdrawal system was 
introduced, I havent seen that Assetz was required to do this or said this would happen 
when normal market conditions ended. There was a level of uncertainty due to the impact of 
the pandemic and the changes made by Assetz was a reaction to the lack of liquidity.  So, 
while an interest rate equalisation could have been considered, the fact it didnt happen 
doesnt mean Assetz has done something wrong. 
I acknowledge that Mr C would have liked Assetz to take different actions in March 2020. But 
the fact it didnt, doesnt mean hes been treated unfairly. And I dont find that Assetz has 
used a variation clause to discriminate between sub-sets of investors. Ive previously 
explained why I accepted Assetzs explanation for not introducing a pro rata system 
immediately. And, when considering Assetzs broader responsibilities to its customers, I 
dont think it would have been fairer to suspend withdrawals until market conditions 
improved. So, it remains that I find that Assetz was considering the circumstances of all its 
customers in the access accounts with the actions it took. 
Ive considered the points Mr C has raised about his decision to exit the QAA. He refers to 
an email from Assetz sent on 25 August 2020 warning the provision fund would not be 
sufficient going forward to allow trades of loans with new credit issues unless new funding 
became available. Mr C says this meant investors were unlikely to commit new funds as it 
represented a fundamental change to the way in which the access accounts operated. He 
says this forced him to sell his investments as he didnt agree with the actions Assetz took. 
He says the timing of his exit was determined by the announcement Assetz made and he 
believes it may have deliberately kept back the news or been required by the FCA to make 
the disclosure about the provision fund.   
Ive reviewed the August 2020 email Mr C refers to. This does explain the reasons why it can 
no longer support the trading of loans with credit issues through the provision fund  as it 
had previously through ring fencing. The reason given for this is the impact of the pandemic 
has meant the number of loans that required provision fund support had increased to the 
point where it can no longer be funded. Assetz say this situation was covered in the 
provision fund policy. So, while Mr C views this as a change in operation of the access 
accounts, Assetz suggest this was always a possibility.                                                    
Ive looked at the information that was available to Mr C when he first invested in the QAA. It 
was clear on Assetzs website that the QAA benefitted from the provision fund in normal 
market conditions. There were also warnings on the website to support that the provision 
fund wasnt guaranteed. So, while I accept that the inclusion of a provision fund is an 
attraction to the QAA, I dont think a guarantee was given about its operation. This is 
particularly relevant when considering the market conditions at the time. As Ive previously 
mentioned, Assetz had informed investors that normal market conditions had ceased in 
March 2020. It appears Mr C made a decision to sell his loans based on his view that the 
access accounts had become an unattractive proposition for new investors, risking his ability 
to withdraw. I can appreciate why Mr C took the decision to de-invest following the August 
2020 email, but I dont think the evidence supports that Assetz can be seen to have treated 
him unfairly or done something wrong in providing this update. Ive also seen nothing to 
suggest that this information was deliberately held back to the detriment of investors when 
the marketplace was first introduced at the start of August 2020.  Having reviewed all of the evidence provided, I havent found that the changes Assetz made 
in 2020 to the QQA amount to Mr C being treated unfairly. It has demonstrated that during 
the period from March 2020, market conditions were abnormal  leading to a justification to 
make changes. There is a balance to be drawn between the needs of individual customers 
like Mr C and making decisions for the whole customer base. So, I do understand why he 
would have preferred Assetz to take different actions. But this doesnt mean Assetz must 
have treated him unfairly by the changes made. 
For the reasons provided above and those in my provisional decision, I dont think Mr C has 
been treated unfairly in the circumstances, so I wont be asking Assetz to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman