DRN-4483454
The complaint
Mr A complains about the contradictory information he says Phoenix Life Assurance Limited 
(Phoenix) gave him about the retirement options for his pension plan. He says this might 
have led to him making the wrong choice. He also complains that the payment of his benefits 
was made late because of Phoenixs poor service and says it was also late in making one of 
the monthly annuity payments.
What happened
In 1989 Mr A took out a pension plan with Phoenix which had been set up from the proceeds 
of a transfer from a defined benefit scheme. The plan was set up to a normal retirement date 
(NRD) of 13 December 2021 and included certain guarantees such as a Guaranteed 
Annuity Rate and a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP). In this case the GMP was 
£3,370.64 per year at Mr As NRD.
In April 1999 Phoenix wrote to Mr A to confirm that his plan had been included in the industry 
wide pension review and the advice to transfer from his scheme deemed to be unsuitable. 
Redress was paid into his pension plan at that point. 
Phoenix wrote to Mr A in June 2021  informing him of his NRD in six months time. It sent 
out a pack setting out his retirement options in October 2021 and Mr A contacted Phoenix to 
discuss the matter in early November 2021. During this time I understand Mr A was told he 
could take his benefits as a lump sum although, after a review of the matter this information 
was deemed to be incorrect, and Phoenix said Mr A could only draw his benefits as an 
annuity. 
Mr A said he would be speaking with Pension Wise about the matter and decided he would 
defer taking the benefits until December 2022 or until his complaint was settled  which it 
was in May 2022. Mr A contacted Phoenix at this time and was told to call back the following 
month which was six months prior to his new retirement date. 
In June 2022 and November 2022 Mr A said he had to contact Phoenix several times as his 
retirement packs hadnt been received as promised. Eventually Mr A accepted Phoenixs 
annuity illustration dated 15 November 2022 which noted he would receive a yearly income 
of £3,601.80. Phoenix set up the plan with a start date of 15 November 2022 and confirmed 
this to Mr A on 1 December 2022.
But also in November 2022 Mr A had complained about the contradictory information hed 
been provided with. 
He said Phoenix had initially said he could take his benefits in the form of a lump sum but 
subsequently changed its mind and said he would have to take out an annuity instead. He 
also said this lack of clarity caused the payments to be made over a year late and during the 
process Phoenix had provided poor service. 
Phoenix said it recognised it had provided a poor service and had delayed its complaint 
response to Mr A - so it paid him £300. 
In February 2023 Mr A had cause to contact Phoenix regarding what he thought was the late 
payment of that months annuity. Phoenix explained that Mr As payments should be made 
as close to the 15th of each month as possible  allowing for weekends and bank holidays. 
But it accepted that it should have been clearer in confirming this payment date to him and 
didnt respond to this new complaint point as quickly as it should have. So it paid Mr A an 
additional £100.
 
But Mr A wasnt satisfied with the compensation he was paid, so he brought his complaint to 
us where one of our investigators looked into the matter. He said the question of whether 
Phoenix hadnt adhered to the terms and conditions of the policy when Mr A wanted to take 
his benefits as a lump sum or under the serious ill health option had already been 
considered, but broadly he agreed with our assessment of that point. 
He said he accepted that Mr A might have been given conflicting information about the 
option to take a lump sum on the phone, but ultimately the written information Mr A was 
provided with did set out the correct options available to him. 
He also considered that the compensation Mr A had been paid for the poor service 
Phoenix had provided and the other errors it made - such as not confirming the payment 
date of the annuity and not providing clear contact details of the person that issued the final 
response letter, was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr A didnt agree with the outcome making the following points in response:
Phoenix shouldnt have been able to alter the term of the original policy to prevent 
him either taking his benefits at age 50 or as a lump sum. He agreed to those terms 
when he took out the plan.
Hed lost 12 months worth of payments from 2021 to 2022 because of Phoenixs 
incompetence.
He didnt think the compensation that had been paid  with an additional £100 now 
offered  was sufficient. 
The investigator said he didnt think Phoenix had deprived Mr A of a years worth of 
payments as he was given the opportunity to take his benefits in October 2021 using the 
option forms hed been sent. But Mr A chose not to draw the benefits while he remained in 
dispute believing he should be able to take a lump sum instead. 
As no resolution could be found the complaints been referred to an ombudsman and its 
been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of the ill health Mr A has been suffering. Hes told us that the medication 
he is required to take for his condition has made it difficult for him to grasp some of the 
outcomes weve provided across his three complaints. 
So Ill set out clearly below what complaint points Im deciding upon here, but  as Ive 
reached the same outcome as the investigator, I know Mr A will be disappointed by that. 
However, I hope that my explanation of things here will provide Mr A with some closure and 
some comfort that I think  based on what Ive seen - that hes now been paid his benefits 
correctly and hasnt suffered any financial loss.
 In May 2021 we issued a final decision about whether the options Mr A was offered in 
respect of taking his benefits was consistent with what he expected as set out in the original 
terms and conditions. This matter has been dealt with thoroughly and Im not going to 
comment on it any further in this decision. And subsequently Mr A has raised a new 
complaint about life cover that he says was included within his pension plan and that has 
now been investigated separately.
So, what Im looking at here is the question of whether Phoenix provided Mr A with 
misleading or conflicting information when he contacted it to discuss how to take his benefits 
and whether Phoenix has provided elements of poor service while paying Mr As benefits 
and communicating with him during the process. 
The conflicting information given to Mr A
As Ive said previously, weve already considered separately Mr As complaint about whether 
it was unfair that he couldnt access his benefits at age 50 or as a lump sum as was set out 
in the original terms and conditions. So Ive started from the basis that, because of the need 
to provide the GMP, Mr A couldnt draw tax free cash (TFC) from his plan and simply had to 
take his benefits as a yearly annuity payment. This was set out in the retirement pack that 
Mr A received from Phoenix in October 2021 in advance of his original NRD. The pack noted 
the estimated plan value was £32,985 but stated that it wasnt possible for Mr A to cash in 
the pension, take the proceeds as a number of individual lump sums, or take TFC. 
The annuity illustration on the penultimate page confirmed that Mr A could only take an 
annuity from Phoenix for £3,370.68 each year, with a spouses pension that would pay half 
the annuity if Mr A died first. So, although the pack made numerous references to Mr As 
opportunity to shop around with other providers and to speak with Pension Wise for further 
help, it did make it clear that  if he drew his benefits through Phoenix, he would only be able 
to take the annuity as noted above.   
But Mr A has told us that, during various communications with Phoenix, it told him that he 
couldnt take TFC, then it said he could, before confirming eventually that he couldnt. He 
said this was wrong and could have led to him choosing the wrong option when it was made 
available to him.
So Ive listened to the calls that Mr A had with Phoenix, and Ive heard aspects of conflicting 
information that was provided to him  particularly during calls on 3 and 4 November 2021. I 
have taken into account that part of the confusion during the calls was because Mr A was 
also talking about another plan he held which I understand did offer the option of 25% TFC, 
but regardless I dont think Phoenix was clear about what it told Mr A he would be able to do. 
The call from 4 November 2021 was clear in its instruction that the previous adviser had 
been wrong and that Mr A could take 25% TFC from both his protected rights and non-
protected rights plan  which the Phoenix adviser calculated meant that Mr A could be 
entitled to over £4,000 TFC. 
So I think it was clear that Phoenix, at best, wasnt entirely clear with Mr A during the 
telephone calls and did provide him with conflicting information about whether he could take 
a TFC lump sum.
 
But Phoenix has accepted that it may have provided such unclear information and has paid 
Mr A £300 compensation for that - as well as the matter of Mr A not receiving retirement 
packs in June and October 2022. So Ive gone on to consider whether Mr A was 
disadvantaged by the information and what would have happened if Phoenix had been clear 
from the outset.In doing so Im mindful that all the written documentation Mr A received was correct and did 
only set out the annuity option for him to choose. And Ive also taken into account that was 
the correct annuity option in this case  so its the only outcome Mr A could have received 
anyway. Even if he had chosen the alternative of withdrawing TFC if it were available to him 
during the telephone conversations, such an option still couldnt have been paid to him and 
when he received the documentation to confirm his choice it would have defaulted to show 
the annuity only option. So I dont think it would have been possible for Mr A to have made 
the wrong choice anyway, because he would always have ended up with the one available 
option.
So, even if Phoenix had been clearer in confirming the fact that TFC wasnt available from 
the beginning, I dont think it would have altered what happened in the end. Whatever 
Phoenix may have said which might have raised Mr As expectations of receiving TFC, it 
simply wasnt available to him under any scenario. Of course I accept that the conflicting 
information did raise Mr As expectations and would have caused him some degree of 
concern and worry about what exactly was available to him  although I think the written 
information Mr A received ought to have allayed his fears somewhat. But, in any case I think 
this would have impacted Mr A to some degree, especially as hes told us that his medical 
condition makes it difficult for him to understand these matters as well as he would like. 
So I think an award of compensation should be made but, when taken overall, I think that the 
sum of £300 is within the range of what Id expect to see for something like this. 
The years worth of annuity payments that were missed
Mr A says that because of its conflicting information he was unable to take his annuity until 
he had spoken to Pension Wise and also resolved the complaint with Phoenix. He says that 
this, as well as the delays in receiving his retirement packs in 2022, meant that he received 
his first annuity payment around a year after his NRD. So he thought Phoenix should make 
up those missed payments.
But I dont think Phoenix was responsible for those missed payments nor will I be 
recommending that it pays them. I say that because the October 2021 pack provided Mr A 
with everything he needed to access his benefits at or around his NRD. I know Mr A was 
then given conflicting information when he contacted Phoenix to discuss his options but that 
didnt prevent him from carrying on with the process of drawing the benefits. Phoenix didnt 
prevent Mr A from doing so  it was a decision that Mr A himself made - so I cant say 
Phoenix prevented him from taking the annuity and therefore receiving that years worth of 
income. In such situations I would expect Mr A to have mitigated his position, which I think 
he could have done by continuing the process and registering a complaint if he thought the 
benefits had been paid incorrectly.
The other errors Phoenix made and the additional compensation offer
Mr A said he had to contact Phoenix again in February 2023 when his monthly annuity 
payment was made late. He said hed received his first two payments by the 13th of each 
month but in February it wasnt paid until two days later.
 
Whereas Phoenix said the due date for Mr As annuity payment is the 15th of each month but 
where weekends or bank holidays affect that date it is obliged to pay on the nearest working 
day before. In this case that meant it paid Mr A on the 13th of the month. Ive seen the commencement of benefit schedule that Phoenix sent Mr A on 1 December 
which set out the requested pension date of 15 November 2022. So I think its reasonable 
to assume that this would be the date of each month that payment would be made. And 
although, quite understandably, Phoenix has paid Mr A before this date on some occasions 
for the reasons given, theres nothing to support the idea that it has made his payments later 
than the 15th of each month. So I dont think Phoenix has done anything wrong there. 
However, while theres no evidence to show that Mr A requested a specific date to have his 
annuity paid, Phoenix has accepted that it could have made the regular payment date 
clearer and has offered further compensation for that oversight.
Mr A also complained that Phoenixs final response letter to him from March 2023 omitted 
the complaint handlers name and provided a contact number that wasnt possible for him to 
get through to. I think its likely that we all suffer some day to day inconvenience when 
dealing with businesses and I can understand that Mr A would have been frustrated at not 
knowing who to ask for when he contacted Phoenix and would have been disappointed not 
to get through to someone to discuss his complaint resolution.
 
But Mr A had been in communication with Phoenix to some extent up to that point so I think 
it would have been possible for him to have explored alternative lines of communication  
even if that would have been frustrating for him.  So I dont think the omissions from the 
letter prevented Mr A from being able to discuss his complaint with Phoenix in some way or 
other. But even if I am wrong in saying what Mr A might have been able to achieve, Phoenix 
has accepted that these errors would have caused him some degree of inconvenience and 
has offered to pay an additional £100 compensation. 
As before Ive thought about Phoenixs additional offer carefully and I do feel that it 
represents a fair and reasonable resolution to this part of Mr As complaint. So I think thats 
what it should pay.  
Putting things right
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £400 in total to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited should pay any amount that it hasnt 
already paid Mr A from that total of £400.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given Phoenix Life Assurance Limited should pay the outstanding 
compensation sum as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman