DRN-2115730
The complaint
Mr I has complained about his home buildings and contents insurer QIC Europe Ltd because 
it declined his claim for water damage and said he did not have accidental damage. It also 
took an excess of £350. He has complained about another insurer which does provide 
accidental damage cover for his home  that is being dealt with under a separate complaint 
reference.
  
What happened
Mr I reported water damage to the ceilings of his hall and kitchen. QIC sent a leak detection 
specialist to source the cause of the damage. The specialist said it was failed seals around 
the bath in the main bathroom and two en-suite (back-to-back) showers. QIC said it was 
declining the claim for water damage, and whilst it would have considered it under the policy 
cover for accidental damage (AD), Mr Is cover didnt benefit from that addition. It said it 
would consider further evidence regarding the cause of damage if presented to it.
Mr I showed QIC evidence that he did have cover for AD. QIC said he should speak to his 
broker  at which point Mr I was advised that his home insurance and his AD cover are 
provided by two different insurers. Mr Is AD insurer said there was no fault with the seals 
and wouldnt cover the damage. Mr I complained to us.
Our investigator sent QIC the report completed by the AD insurer. QIC said it was satisfied 
by the findings of its own report.
Mr I sent our investigator and QIC evidence hed obtained from a plumber. The plumber had 
found a leak on the valve of one of the en-suite showers and on the trap of the shower in the 
family bathroom. QIC has not commented on this evidence.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. Mr I was unhappy with the findings and felt his 
evidence hadnt been considered. The complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, with regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mr I, Im not going 
to uphold his complaint. I think QICs action, based on the evidence available to it, was fair 
and reasonable.   
Mr Is policy has been arranged in a slightly unusual way by his broker. The result is that 
whilst Mr I has cover for AD this is not provided by QIC as an added extra to the standard 
buildings and contents cover it provides. Whether or not QIC might have accepted a claim 
for Mr I under the AD cover is a moot point because it doesnt provide that cover for him. 
QIC dealt with this as a general damage claim (rather than accidental damage). That cover 
affords assistance with finding leaks. But that cover also attracts a £350 excess. The excess 
isnt restricted to situations where only a claim for damage is accepted. And QIC did provide 
a service to Mr I by sending a specialist to his home to find the leaks, which came at a cost 
to it. So I dont think its unreasonable that QIC charged or kept an excess. 
I know Mr I is also unhappy that he wasnt told about the excess before the specialist 
attended. That is regrettable. But the policy documents show that an excess will be charged.    
The specialist report is, in my view, persuasive. I cant see any good reason why QIC 
shouldnt have relied on it, in the first instance at least, to decline the water damage claim.  
I and QIC have seen the report completed by the AD insurer. QIC hasnt said much about it 
but it clearly feels its reasonable for it to rely on its own specialists report. The specialist 
QIC instructed was a leak detection specialist. The report contains various photos, explains 
that several tests were undertaken and sets out some findings. The key points from the 
report are:
A gas test to check for leaks on all pipework was done, and no leaks were found. 
The damage in the ceilings were mapped to water sources above. 
Water tests on the bath seals resulted in water coming through the ceiling.
Photos of the bath seals show discoloured sealant. 
A dye test in one of the showers resulted in a leak at the corner of the door. 
A photo of the shower which backs on to that one appears to show no sealant is in place 
between the wall and the shower tray. 
I dont think its unreasonable that QIC relied on that report. Its contents make sense and the 
findings are founded on tests which were undertaken as well as supporting photos. Whilst 
the AD insurer report found there to be no issues with the seals it seems this report was 
completed around three months after QICs specialist attended. Im satisfied that the report 
from the AD insurer does not show that QICs specialists report was likely flawed.
In February 2020, around six months after QICs specialist visited Mr Is home, Mr I 
employed a plumber. An invoice and photos from the plumber show that leaks on pipework 
were found. To date QIC hasnt commented on what this evidence means in light of the 
cover it provides Mr I. I think it should review that and I note that it did tell Mr I in its final 
response that it would consider further evidence from him. 
For the purposes of my decision here though, I have considered whether the evidence from 
the plumber most likely means that QICs specialists report, and/or its reliance on that, were 
flawed. Im not persuaded that is the case. The leaks were only found by the plumber some 
six-months after the specialists report was completed. And the specialist did complete 
various tests, including checking all pipework for leaks. Ive no reason to think the 
specialists findings at the time they were completed were likely flawed. Or that, if they were, 
QIC should reasonably have realised this and not relied upon them. I think QIC acted fairly 
and reasonably with the evidence it had available at that time. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against QIC Europe Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman