DRN-1653933
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the delays and poor handling of their claim under their AXA 
Insurance UK Plc Home Protect policy.
What happened
Mr P said on 19 February 2019 he noticed water leaking from an en-suite bathroom into the 
hallway below. He called a plumber the next day who said the problem was extensive. Mr P 
called AXA on 21 February and said he was given to believe he would receive an immediate 
response, but he had to make further calls until he received an email on 25 February. 
Mr P said there were visits and investigations by AXAs agents. He said unnecessary delays 
were caused as repairs werent all listed, work wasnt authorised and his floor wasnt set for 
repair as the damage was said to be due to wear and tear. Mr P said drying equipment was 
put in too late to make a difference and the work was delayed during the summer and not all 
completed. Mr P called many times to make progress. He said the prolonged disruption had 
severely impacted his family and hed made AXA aware that his daughter had special needs. 
AXA said it appeared that water was escaping from behind Mr and Mrs Ps shower and it 
sent a trace and access team on 6 March 2019 to locate the leak. AXA said it took time to 
review the report and this led to more intrusive investigations. It said a second investigation 
was arranged where floor boards would be lifted and an access hole in the ceiling widened.
AXA said the second report confirmed the leak as behind the shower and said the enclosure 
must be removed and drying carried out before replacing the fittings. AXA said it called Mr P 
on 2 April to discuss the options and he wanted a payment for the bathroom part of the claim 
so he could use his own contractor. AXA said it then waited for his estimates for the work. 
AXA said Mr P called later to say he no longer wanted to cash settle the repairs. Mr P said 
he was unaware AXA required estimates and it wasted two months before the work started.
AXA said it logged Mr Ps complaint on 20 May. It said it took time to prepare for the repairs 
and it hadnt caused unnecessary delays. Mr P complained again about delays. AXA agreed 
thered been unnecessary delay and poor communications and offered £150 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with this response and referred their complaint to our service.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said Mr and Mrs Ps 
flooring was incorrectly assessed as unaffected by the leak and Mr P had to challenge this. 
He said drying was due to have finished at the start of May 2019 but the area hadnt been 
fully stripped and then there was a delay while tiles were removed. He said there was then a 
seven-week delay before the work started, and Mr P made several calls about this.
The investigator said the works werent completed until the end of November 2019 and had 
taken far too long. He said AXA and its agents were responsible for avoidable delays, mainly 
due to contractors unable to work without AXAs permission. He said the disruption and 
delays had a significant effect on Mrs P and their daughters medical conditions and he 
recommended that AXA pay Mr and Mrs P further compensation of £500, totalling £650.
Mr and Mrs P accepted the investigators recommended settlement of his complaint. AXAs 
agents requested more time to respond, but despite this no response has been received. 
Consequently, the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at AXA and its agents handling of Mr Ps claim. I think the initial 
response was timely but unfortunately the first agents AXA sent to investigate the leak 
couldnt locate the source and didnt have authority to remove the shower panel.
After this a second more in-depth investigation was carried out and this identified the 
problem. From this point drying out and asbestos checks should have followed and a 
schedule of work drawn up. There may have been mis-communications around the 
settlement of the claim but this doesnt explain the significant delays between a report being 
submitted and the work being authorised and the contractor being engaged.
Large and complex escape of water claims are by their nature stressful and can take several 
months to complete. However, I dont think Mr Ps claim needed to take nearly ten months 
and I think this could have been avoided by AXA taking a more direct management of the 
claim. This was necessary given the medical conditions of members of Mr Ps family.
From the evidence Ive seen, the stress and inconvenience of ten months of disruption has 
seriously affected Mrs Ps health and ability to work. I can see that Mr P has had to make 
over 30 phone calls chasing information and updates, and to get issues resolved, and has 
repeatedly been let down by the customer service that AXA and its agents provided.
AXA has acknowledged delays and poor communications and offered £150 compensation. 
Its disappointing that AXA hasnt responded to the investigators view and I see no reason to 
change the settlement he has recommended. The award of a further £500 compensation 
reflects the disruption and impact on Mr P and his family of the avoidable delays and poor 
communications that they have suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr P further compensation of £500 for its delays and 
poor service. This sum is in addition to the £150 compensation AXA previously offered Mr P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman