DRN-1962334
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2002 with a 
credit card. Miss C says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Miss C says she didnt want PPI but was persuaded into taking it out. Capital One says 
Miss C requested cover in a postal application form - it adds the optional nature of the PPI 
was made clear and it only added the PPI after she requested the cover in her application.
Where there is a dispute like this, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on all the 
available evidence  which includes Miss Cs testimony. 
Ive seen a copy of Miss Cs postal application form from 2002. In it, there was a separate 
section for PPI headed INSURE YOUR PAYMENTS. There was a statement that said,
I would like to insure my card repayments against redundancy, business failure,
accident, sickness or loss of life. Next to this, customers had to tick a Yes box to indicate 
they wanted to take PPI, or a No box to indicate they didnt want it. On Miss Cs form the Yes 
box has been ticked and shes signed the form. I think its clear that Miss C couldve declined 
cover and ticked the No box if she didnt want PPI and theres nothing on this form 
suggesting the PPI was compulsory. I also note that this was a postal application not a 
branch application with an advisor present. 
Based on what Ive seen, although Ive thought carefully about Miss Cs testimony, I think 
Capital One made it clear Miss C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. 
I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Miss C so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss C got the information she needed to decide if 
it was right for her.  
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, she was eligible for 
the policy and it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable.
Miss C told us she had less than three months sick pay provided by her employer and she 
had some savings to help her make her repayments should she have found herself 
unexpectedly out of work. But this policy wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay for up to 12 
months if she was unable to work because of illness or injury. And it also wouldve provided 
up to 12 months of cover for unemployment. Having the policy would leave her savings 
available for other essential expenditure. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking out the cover. So I dont think this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman