DRN-3216315
The complaint
Mrs L (represented by her daughter) complains that HiFX Europe Limited (trading as XE) will 
not reimburse the money she lost after falling victim to an email intercept scam. 
What happened
Mrs L owned a property in Spain with her husband (Mr L) which they wished to donate to 
their daughters. As part of legally transferring ownership of the apartment, Mrs Ls lawyers in 
Spain (Vives Pons) required her to pay a tax implication. On 6 June 2018, Vives Pons sent 
Mr and Mrs L an email providing a breakdown of a payment request of 45,128 Euros. On 25 
July 2018 Mrs L enquired about opening an account with XE. 
On 27 July 2018, Mr L received a fraudulent email from Vives Pon posing as Vives Pons 
who provided the bank account details for the payment of 45,128 Euros to be sent to. As the 
email address was only very slightly different, he didnt know it was fraudulent. 
Mrs L opened an account with XE in order to use its currency exchange services and 
execute the payment. After funding her newly opened XE account with a bank transfer from 
her existing Nationwide Building Society account, Mrs L instructed XE to send the payment 
to the fraudster.
On 30 July 2018 Mrs L emailed Vives Pons to advise the payment had been instructed. The 
fraudster replied to Mr and Mrs L thanking them for their email and reminded them of the 
bank account details they needed to pay. On 1 August 2018, Mrs L emailed Vives Pons and 
provided evidence that the payment had been instructed. This email was not replied to by 
Vives Pons.
On 7 August 2018 Mr L emailed the fraudster to check whether the payment had arrived, the 
fraudster replied advising Mr L to check back the following day. On 8 August 2018, Mr L 
contacted the fraudster again and the fraudster requested the transfer slip showing proof of 
payment. Mr L emailed the fraudster back to explain that he had already provided this 
information. On the same day Mrs L emailed Vives Pons and provided the proof of transfer 
again. On 9 August 2018, Vives Pons replied and requested the SWIFT code, which Mrs L 
duly provided. 
After a little more time had passed, Mrs L discovered she was the victim of an email 
intercept scam.
Mrs L complained that XE didnt do enough to prevent her falling victim to a scam. XE said it 
followed her instructions and in accordance with the terms and conditions she agreed to and 
she was responsible for the accuracy of the information she provided. 
One of our investigators upheld the complaint. He felt good industry practice ought to have 
prompted XE to question Mrs Ls payment instruction and it could have provided a scam 
warning, particularly as email intercept scams ought to have been well known to XE. Our 
investigator also felt the FCAs Occasional Paper No.8 on Consumer Vulnerability was 
relevant because Mrs L was over 80 at the time of the payment. He felt this ought to have 
prompted further checks from XE, prior to executing Mrs Ls payment instruction. He 
suggested XE reimburse Mrs Ls total loss of 45,128 Euros, plus interest. 
XE didnt agree, it argued that it had no concerns that Mrs L was vulnerable when it spoke 
with her. It also didnt agree the good industry practice applied to it as it was not a bank and 
was an online money transfer service provider. Any good industry practice quoted was 
applicable to banks rather than it for the type of service it offers. It further noted, The 
Principles for Business to Payment Services and Electronic Money only became effective 
from 1 August 2019 (after Mrs Ls payment instruction). 
 
On 5 November 2021, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
I have considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to uphold Mrs Ls 
complaint and Ill explain why.
 
The relevant law and regulations  plus good industry practice and XEs own submissions 
suggest XE has a duty of care to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams
so far as reasonably possible. XE might be negligent and liable for reasonably foreseeable
losses if, in breach of that duty of care, it fails to act on information which ought reasonably
to alert a prudent authorised payment institution to potential fraud or financial crime by, or
against, its customer.
Having said that, the Payment Services Regulations 2017, in conjunction with XEs terms
and conditions, also indicate that XE should execute authorised payment instructions without
undue delay  and there is a presumption that liability for an authorised payment rests with
the payer, even if that authorisation was obtained by third-party fraud.
Theres no dispute in this case that Mrs L authorised the disputed transaction. And Ive
taken the above obligations into account when deciding if XE acted fairly and reasonably
when it processed her instructions.
 
Ive also reviewed the contact notes provided by XE in relation to Mrs Ls communication 
with it. Ive summarised key points in a timeline below:
Mrs L called XE on 25 July 2018 to enquire about exchange rates. She explained the 
nature of her transaction was to pay lawyers in Spain as a tax implication in order to 
transfer the ownership of a property to her daughters. The adviser said he hadnt 
heard of this before but Mrs L explained it was something that was required in Spain. 
She said she was shopping around for the best rates.
Mrs L opened an online account with XE on 27 July 2018.
Mrs L called XE on 30 July 2018 to book the trade to and initiate the payment 
instruction. During this call, she confirmed the recipient bank account details but 
noted when she tried to input the beneficiary details on her XE online account, it 
didnt allow her to input & (which was included in her lawyers payee name), so she 
input and instead. Mrs L said it should be fine because the correct account details 
had been entered. XE transferred Mrs L to their customer services department for 
further assistance. The call was transferred back from customer services and the 
following notes were recorded: call transferred back from CS to guide online to 
change recip name and assign. Next steps advised. 
On 7 August 2018, Mrs L called to explain the beneficiary hadnt received the 
payment. Notes from this conversation indicate that Mrs L checked the account 
details matched with the information she was provided (by the fraudster). XE explained it would initiate a trace on the payment and advised that Mrs L ask the 
recipient to do the same.
On 8 August 2018 Mrs L complained to XE that the payment had not been received 
by the beneficiary. XE explained it had been in touch with the recipient bank and was 
waiting for a response. 
On 9 August 2018, the beneficiary bank responded to XE and advised the funds 
were credited to the recipient on 1 August 2018. XE advised Mrs L of this on the 
same day. XE also formally responded to Mrs Ls complaint on 10 August 2018, 
advising that the funds had been credited to the beneficiarys account details. 
On 10 August 2018, Mrs L called XE to advise the funds were sent to the wrong 
account. Mrs L advised she had given them the wrong account details and asked that 
the funds be re-called. XE initiated a re-call on the same day. 
Mrs L called XE on 15 August 2018 to explain that the IBAN number used was one 
digit wrong. XE advised that a re-call was the best option given this information.
On 20 August 2018, Mrs L called XE for an update. She advised that shed spoken 
with Vives Pons who confirmed the bank details they used were not for an account 
they hold and Mr and Mrs L may have been scammed. XE advised that a recall had 
been requested and suggested Mrs L call Action Fraud for further assistance. 
Mrs L called XE on 22 August 2018 to chase this matter again. XE couldnt provide 
any further update. 
The recipient bank responded to XE on 29 August 2018 and advised the following: 
When we received yr request for cancellation the beneficiary had withdrawn all the 
money of the account
XEs terms and conditions at section 4.3 (Bank delays and errors) state:
A bank may also be required to (among other things) delay or withhold payment if it 
is not satisfied with information about the client, payment or recipient for the 
purposes of complying with Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing 
Laws and / or other laws.
But it says no flags were raised until Mrs L reported she thought she had been scammed. 
Section 6.5 (Information) of Xes terms and conditions state:
You are responsible for the completeness and accuracy of all information you 
provide to us at any time, including any in your Request and Your Nominated 
Account details. 
   
I think the relationship Mrs L had with XE was different to the one she would have with, for 
example, her current account provider. Current accounts tend to be used on an almost daily 
basis for the receipt of income and for everyday spending. Whereas Mrs L set up her XE 
account in July 2018 specifically to facilitate a one-off overseas payment instruction. In my 
experience, this kind of usage is quite normal, mainly because payment institutions like XE 
offer better exchange rates than the high street banks. What this also means is that the 
pattern of spending is often irregular and may include larger value, international transfers. I 
mention this, in particular, because our investigator pointed to various pieces of guidance 
and best practice in support of upholding this complaint and to demonstrate that XE ought to 
have done more to verify her transfer. But I disagree  the checks and measures a business 
undertakes should be proportionate to the relationship that exists between it and its 
customer. 
Overall, at the time the payment was made Im satisfied XE did have systems in place to 
look out for fraud. Taking into account what XE did and the way firms obligations have 
changed over time, as well as the particular circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied XE 
did enough to try to protect Mrs L from financial harm by assisting her with her payment instruction. I dont think XE was obligated to do any more than this at the time the scam 
occurred. I say this having taken the following into account.
Whilst the adviser noted he hadnt come across the nature of Mrs Ls payment before in her 
call of 25 July 2018, this initial call was made in order for Mrs L to obtain general information 
on exchange rates. I dont find the adviser ought to have probed Mrs L as she wasnt a 
customer at that stage. Having listened to the call prior to transferring Mrs L to customer 
services, I didnt find that XE ought to have been alert to any potential concern when she 
discussed concerns entering the beneficiarys account name. This had to do with an issue 
with XEs ability to accept & as part of a payees name. The purpose of the call was 
therefore to confirm the recipient details and ensure the beneficiary details were correct. 
There were no warning signs that Mrs L could have been the victim of a scam in either call 
and Ive see nothing else which suggests XE ought to have had concerns about allowing the 
payment to be sent to the recipient. 
 
Mrs L appointed her daughters and Mr L to deal with her properties and financial affairs in 
February 2019. This was obtained a while after the scam. But at the time of the scam, she 
and Mr L controlled the transfer of ownership of their property and were actively sorting out 
their own financial affairs. 
I dont find that Mrs L being over-80 at the time of her payment instruction was, on its own, a 
reason for XE to treat her differently. Mrs L was not instructed by the fraudster to open an 
account with a currency exchange service, she chose to do this independently. Having 
listened to two calls between Mrs L and XE she was clear in explaining why she needed to 
make this payment and that she was shopping around for the best possible exchange. I think 
Mrs L came across confident and knowledgeable about her intentions and her instructions. 
She also facilitated the opening of her XE account independently and transferred funds from 
her Nationwide account to her XE account independently and without the assistance of XE. 
Mrs L was also diligent about checking the account details matched the instructions that 
were given to her. I dont find that XEs staff ought to have reasonably concluded she was 
vulnerable. 
Im also satisfied that XE acted in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
and made reasonable efforts to recover the funds involved in the payment transaction. 
Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank confirmed no funds remained following XEs recall 
requests.
 
I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs L but, considering XEs obligations and the
specific circumstances of this case, I cant fairly tell it to refund any of her money. I do think 
Vives Pons may have a case to answer because the evidence Ive seen suggests their email 
address was hacked. Mrs L may wish to take independent advice about pursuing this 
matter.
Responses to my provisional decision
XE has not added anything further, so I assume it does not disagree with my proposed 
outcome for this complaint.
  
Mrs L disagrees with my provisional decision and has made further submissions. I have 
carefully read and digested those submissions in full and will summarise her key points:
Mr L was not aware that he was in contact with a fraudster. 
Whilst Mrs L only had proof of the scam on 9 August 2018, she contacted XE on 3 
August 2018 to report the money had not arrived and it said this would not be 
investigated for a further week. XE did not explain the impact of the use of and or & in the payee name and it 
should have advised her it wouldnt make a difference as it doesnt check the payee 
name.  
XE did not advise of the dangers of fraud and scams and Mrs L was in a vulnerable 
age group. These types of scams ought to have been very common to it. 
XE ought to have checked the account name matched prior to processing the 
payment and if she had known it wouldnt be checked, she would have never used its 
service. 
Further funds arrived into the fraudsters account at the point XE could have taken 
action. 
XE took no action on 22 August 2018 and it had a duty of care to. 
XE should bear at least some responsibility for the losses given the large sum of money and 
its knowledge and awareness of this type of fraud.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint and Ill explain why. 
Before I do, I want to be clear that when I refer to Mr L being in contact with a fraudster, I do 
not mean that Mr L knew he was in contact with a fraudster, he was clearly unaware he was 
communicating with a fraudster as they tricked him into believing they were the genuine 
Vives Pons. So it is not my intention to suggest that Mr L or Mrs L was aware they were in 
communication with a fraudster at any time prior to the scam being uncovered. 
Ive not seen evidence of Mrs Ls call with XE on or around 3 August 2018. But even if this 
earlier call had taken place, XEs contact with the recipient bank would have been to 
ascertain whether the funds had been received. This response wouldnt have been 
immediate based on the responses from the recipient bank Ive seen and all it would have 
confirmed was that the funds had been received. Ive noted that Mr L was still in 
communication with the fraudster (posing as Vives Pons) on 7 August 2018 and he was 
advised to wait until the following day, which he adhered to. From the evidence provided by 
Mrs L, all of her funds were removed from the beneficiary account on 3 August 2018, so I 
dont think evidence of an earlier call to check the receipt of funds would have made a 
difference to the outcome. 
Ive noted that Mrs L initially spoke with an adviser in relation to the use of and/& in Mrs Ls 
inputting of the payee details. The adviser explained she couldnt advise that it would be ok 
to send the payment without the correct spelling of the payee details. This is because XE 
explains in its terms and conditions that it is the customers responsibility to ensure the 
payee details are correct. So it wouldnt have been for XE to advise on whether or not it 
would have made a difference because the onus is on the customer to ensure the details are 
correct. 
I do acknowledge how strongly Mrs L feels that XE ought to have checked the payee name 
matched the account details as she wouldnt have used its service otherwise. At the time of 
Mrs Ls payment, the law required XE as well as other payment service providers (including 
banks and building societies) to check that the sort code and account numbers matched, not 
that the payee name matched too. This has since changed and there is now an obligation on 
the payment service provider to confirm the name of the payee matches the account details. 
However, this change only applies to payment journeys within the UK and not international payments. Im afraid a payment service provider was not and still is not required to confirm 
the payee name matches the account details provided for an international payment and Mrs 
Ls payment was an international one. 
I appreciate that Mrs L was over 80 at the time of the disputed payment. But I had 
considered whether XE should have treated her differently. I didnt and still dont think they 
should have because there was no indication from Mrs Ls communication with XE that it 
could have known or suspected that Mrs L might be vulnerable, or the victim of a scam. I 
dont think her age alone, should have been a reason for them to treat her differently. 
Ive noted that the beneficiary account also received further funds following Mrs Ls payment. 
But Mrs L would not have been entitled to these funds as they belong to someone else. Most 
of her funds were utilised by 3 August 2018, so Im satisfied XE wouldnt have been able to 
recover her funds, even though Mrs L feels it should have acted sooner. Im also satisfied it 
contacted the recipient bank at the appropriate times based on what Mrs Ls reported to XE.
I do acknowledge that Mrs L feels that XE should be responsible for at least some of the 
losses and that she has lost a significant sum of money but I dont think there were any 
warning signs to have prompted XE to believe that Mrs L could have fallen victim to a scam.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and despite my natural empathy with Mrs L having been the 
innocent victim of a cruel scam, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman