DRN-2211070
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV have declined a 
claim he made on his private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S needed treatment for his shoulder. He went ahead with the treatment and then claimed 
on his insurance policy. CIGNA declined the claim as Mr S hadnt got pre-authorisation from 
them before the treatment took place. Mr S complained to CIGNA.
CIGNA said Mr S had been told several times that he needed to phone for pre-authorisation 
and that if he didnt it might impact on his claim. They also said theyd paid some previously 
unauthorised treatment as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He asked whether CIGNA would have 
covered the treatment if Mr S had phoned for pre-authorisation and they confirmed it would 
have been cover. He upheld Mr Ss complaint because he didnt think CIGNA had been 
prejudiced by the late notification of the claim. 
Mr S accepted our investigators findings but CIGNA didnt agree. They said the policy 
excluded unauthorised treatment and they apply non-compliance penalties to lots of their 
members. They asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that CIGNA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Its not in dispute that the policy terms say Mr S should have called ahead for pre-
authorisation and that CIGNA advised of this on a number of occasions. Its also not in 
dispute that had Mr S called, CIGNA would have covered the treatment subject to the 
relevant limitations in the policy. So, the key issue is whether its fair and reasonable for 
CIGNA to pay the claim even though Mr S didnt phone for pre-authorisation. I think it is for 
the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
CIGNA hasnt experienced any prejudice because of the late notification. By saying that they 
would have paid the claim this suggests its most likely they were satisfied with the need for 
treatment and that Mr S was accessing treatment from a medical facility theyd cover. 
Therefore, theres no evidence that the delay in reporting the claim has negatively impacted 
on CIGNA. 
Im aware that CIGNA are concerned about the wider impact this approach will have on their 
other consumers. But my role is to make a decision based on the facts of Mr Ss complaint, 
in which theyve not demonstrated that theyve been prejudiced by the delay in Mr S claiming 
for treatment.
Putting things right
CIGNA needs to put things right by covering the cost of the treatment subject to the 
remaining limitations of the policy. They should also pay 8% simple interest from the date 
that the claim was declined until the date of settlement.
If CIGNA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and direct CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman