DRN-3267082
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that National House-Building Council declined a claim under their 
new build warranty policy.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C bought a new build home in 2018. They have a Buildmark warranty policy 
with NHBC. This provides protection for the home for the first ten years after completion. 
In the first two years, NHBC provide an arbitration service for disputes between the 
policyholder and the builder of the home. And if the builder fails to rectify certain faults, 
NHBC will step in and carry out any necessary rectification work and/or repairs.
In years 3-10, NHBC provide insurance for the policyholder. They will carry out or pay for 
any necessary rectification work or repairs to certain parts of the home if damage has been 
caused by a failure to build the home in line with NHBCs specified requirements.
Mr C and Mrs C made a claim in June 2021 (which was in years 3-10 of the policy) because 
the floor tiles in their kitchen / hallway were lifting. Amongst other issues, this was blocking 
access to a cupboard because its door would no longer open.
NHBC carried out an inspection in August 2021 and subsequently declined the claim. They 
agreed the tiles were lifting by about 40mm and had become de-bonded from the concrete 
floor beneath.
But they said this was likely due to thermal and moisture movement and shrinkage of 
materials  and damage caused by such movement is specifically excluded from the cover 
provided by the warranty. 
They also said the policy only covered defects in the build (failures to meet NHBCs building 
requirements) in specified parts of the building. And that there was a specific exclusion 
relating to damage which only affects floor coverings.
Mr C and Mrs C made a complaint to NHBC, but they maintained their decision to decline 
the claim was correct. So, Mr C and Mrs C brought their complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think NHC had done anything wrong.
Mr C and Mrs C disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
They believe the problem with their kitchen / hallway flooring is due to a failure by the builder 
to meet the relevant building standards. And they want NHBC to settle their claim in full and 
compensate them for their trouble and upset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important, first of all, to understand exactly what the terms of Mr C and Mrs Cs 
warranty are.
Section 3 of the policy booklet sets out the cover provided in years 3-10 of the warranty. It 
says:
This section protects you if there is physical damage to your home because the 
builder failed to build the following parts of your home to meet the NHBC 
requirements:
Foundations, walls, external cladding. roofs, ceilings, balconies, load-
bearing floors, flues, chimneys and access steps
Staircases, floor decking (for example, floorboards) and screeds (for example 
a cement-based top layer applied to the structural floor if they fail to support 
normal loads.
Retaining walls.
Double or triple glazing panels to outside windows
Drainage below the ground.
Section 3 also contains a list of exclusions from the cover provided under this Section of the 
policy. It says:
You cannot claim for the following:
.
Damage which only affects floor coverings (such as tiling, laminate and wooden 
flooring), including any fixing material such as adhesive or grout.
Mr C and Mrs C are also provided some cover under Section 4 of the policy. This only 
comes into play if NHBC provided the building control service when the home was being 
built. In the case of Mr C and Mrs Cs home, NHBC did act as building control and so 
Section 4 is in play. 
It might have been helpful if NHBC had pointed this out to Mr C and Mrs C when they made 
their claim and when they later made their complaint. I cant see that NHBC did that at any 
point.
Section 4 provides cover if:
 there is an immediate danger to someones physical health or safety because the 
builder failed to meet the following Building Regulations when building the main 
structure of your home.
The relevant Building Regulations are then defined as Parts A (Structure), B (fire safety), C 
(site preparation and resistance to contaminants and moisture), J (combustion appliances 
and fuel storage systems), K (protection from falling, collision and impact), and N 
(Glazing).
As NHBC pointed out in their inspection report, theres also a section of the policy which sets 
out general conditions and exclusions. This says the policyholder cant claim for (amongst other things):
Damp, condensation, shrinkage, thermal movement (expansion and contraction as a 
result of temperature changes) and movement between different types of materials 
that is not a result of the builder failing to meet the NHBC requirements.
Theres nothing inherently unfair in NHBCs warranty terms. Theres a basic principle here 
that we need to keep in mind. An insurance provider (or underwriter) is entitled to define the 
risk that they are willing to take on in providing cover for a policyholder. 
As long as whats covered is clear, the consumer then has a choice whether to accept the 
cover at the price being offered. If they dont like the terms, or the price, they can seek cover 
elsewhere. The insurance market is competitive  and if an insurer restricts the cover they 
provide more than their competitors, at the same price, theyre unlikely to do much business.
So, NHBC are entitled to decide what kind of cover they offer and what exclusions and 
conditions are put around that cover. As long as they make that clear to the consumer, 
theres nothing unfair or unreasonable in the way their warranty offering is constructed. And I 
should say I dont think any of the terms set out above are obscure, ambiguous or unusual 
for this kind of policy.
I understand, of course, that these warranties are most often sold to the builder or developer, 
who then pass them on to the first homeowner. Im not suggesting Mr C and Mrs C failed to 
understand the cover provided. 
But that doesnt alter the fact that NHBC are entitled to set out what they will cover and what 
they wont. The cover the builder may have bought is what it is  it doesnt increase in scope 
simply because its passed on to a property owner.
In effect, NHBC offer to cover damage caused to the home if the builder fails to meet one or 
more of their requirements when building the fundamental structure of the home (Section 3) 
or, if they provided building control, where theres an immediate danger caused by a failure 
to meet certain Building Regulations (Section 4). 
And theyre entitled to think they have no obligation to assist the policyholder in other 
circumstances, even if there have been obvious failures on the part of the builder which have 
later caused issues for the homeowner.
I know this will disappoint Mr C and Mrs C, but looking at the terms of the policy, I cant say 
that NHBC have acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining their claim. Ill explain why.
Mr C has told us  and he told NHBC  very clearly and eloquently what he thinks caused 
the damage to his tiles. He says that the builder failed to lay the tiles properly and in line with 
the relevant requirements and standards. 
These  and specifically British Standard 5385-1  recognise that damage will be caused to 
flooring laid on top of many types of floor, because of contraction or expansion in the 
material the floor is made of, unless movement joints are included in the flooring. 
These joints are made of flexible material and allow the tiles to shift with the contraction 
and/or expansion of the floor. Usually, in this kind of case, tiles will not be laid right up to and 
abutting surrounding walls or doorframes. There will usually be a gap filled with more flexible 
material.
Mr C has provided evidence that there were no movement joints in the affected area of his flooring, where the tiles directly abut a door frame. This has caused the tiles to tent 
because, put quite simply, they have nowhere else to go as the underlying floor expands 
and/or contracts.
I have absolutely no reason to doubt Mr Cs explanation of the cause of the problem with the 
tiles. Mr C points out that the concrete floor underneath his tiles would have shrunk when 
drying but will have continued to shrink by small but perhaps significant amounts over the 
course of the next few years. And this has caused the tiles to lift because of the 
(inappropriate) way they were laid.
I have to say, I dont think Mr Cs explanation is a million miles away from the opinion given 
by NHBCs surveyor. They also said the issue was down to movement in the floor 
underneath the tiling. Although they didnt mention that this might have been avoided if the 
required movement space and joints had been allowed during the build.
It seems to me, from the evidence provided by Mr C, that he has at least a very strong case 
that the issues with his tiles were a direct result of the builder failing to meet BS-5386-1. 
Mr C describes that as shoddy workmanship and its not for me to argue with that. 
Certainly, Mr C and Mrs C moved into a new build property and within three years or so, the 
floor in their kitchen is lifting and requires extensive  and expensive - work to put right. I can 
understand why Mr C and Mrs C are angry and frustrated about that.
However, what I have to bear in mind is that were not a building ombudsman. No matter 
how much I can sympathise with Mr C and Mrs C, I have to make a decision about the 
financial service (the insurance) provided to Mr C and Mrs C by NHBC. I cant uphold a 
complaint against NHBC as an insurance provider because Mr C and Mrs C have had such 
a frustrating experience with their builder.
This brings me back to the terms of the policy and what it covers and doesnt cover.
In brief, Section 3 covers damage caused by failures to build certain parts of the house in 
line with the relevant requirements, as set out in the terms quoted above. Those specified 
parts of the house include load-bearing floors, floor-decking (such as floorboards) and 
screeds. They dont include floor coverings. 
I come back to the point I made earlier. Essentially, NHBC offers a warranty which covers 
the fundamental structure of the house. The floor tiles arent part of that fundamental 
structure  and thats also made clear in the policy terms.
Even if they were, there is then the exclusion specific to Section 3, which says that claims 
cant be made where the damage only affects floor coverings. The tiles in Mr C and Mrs Cs 
home are a floor covering, as the terms quoted above make clear  tiling is specifically given 
as an example of a floor covering.
Theres no suggestion or evidence at this time to say theres damage to any other part of the 
home. And NHBC have told Mr C and Mrs C that if they discover damage to the floor 
underneath the tiling, then theyll take another look at the claim.
So, I dont think Section 3 covers the damage to Mr C and Mrs Cs tiling. Ive also considered 
whether it might be covered under Section 4 (again, as quoted above).
However, I dont think theres cover under Section 4 either, for two main reasons. One, Im 
not convinced that there is any immediate danger to anyone at the property because of the 
lifting in the tiles. I dont want to underestimate the inconvenience and annoyance caused to Mr C and Mrs C by the lifting of the tiles and by the restricted access to their cupboard. But I 
dont think its likely anyone is in immediate danger, as things stand.
And two, even if I did think there was immediate danger, this Section specifies the parts of 
the Building Regulations which would have to be disregarded by the builder for NHBC to pick 
up the claim. Its not all of the Building Regulations. Its essentially those parts which relate 
to parts of the house covered under Section 3  the fundamental structure as I referred to it 
earlier. 
I dont believe any of the parts of the Building Regulations specified under Section 4 of the 
warranty cover floor coverings. And none of those specific parts of the Regulations require 
compliance with BS-5385-1. 
I should also mention the general exclusion which applies to all Sections of the warranty 
(again, quoted above), which says that theres no cover for issues caused by, amongst other 
things, shrinkage or thermal movement. And I note that Mr Cs own explanation of the cause 
of the problem suggests that it is likely down to shrinkage and/or movement in the floor 
underneath the tiling.
In summary, it seems to me that theres a strong case to say that the builder failed to meet 
the relevant standards when laying Mr C and Mrs Cs tiling. But nonetheless I cant justifiably 
say that NHBC acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr C and Mrs Cs claim. Put 
bluntly, not all of the builders errors are covered by the warranty.
Finally, I should mention that Mr C has made it clear in his recent correspondence with us 
that hes not happy with the way NHBC carried out the building control function for his 
property. Essentially, he thinks building control should have picked up the clear failure (in his 
view) to lay the tiling in line with the relevant standards.   
I should be clear that Its not for us to comment on that. We can look into complaints about 
financial services and products. So, our focus has to be on NHBC as a provider of 
insurance. We cant look at how they perform the other aspects of their role. As I said earlier, 
we arent a building ombudsman  or a building control ombudsman for that matter.
If Mr C wishes to raise a complaint about that aspect of NHBCs role, he may - as I 
understand it - make a complaint to the Construction Industries Council Approved Inspectors 
Register (CICAIR). 
They are the body designated by the Secretary of State to register Building Inspectors who 
carry out building control functions. I believe they can carry out investigations into such 
complaints and, where appropriate, conduct hearings which may impose sanctions on an 
individual Buildings Inspector.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman