DRN-3422648
The complaint
Mr A is a sole trader. He complains that Lloyds Bank PLC recalled funds provided under a 
Bounce Back Loan and closed his bank account.
What happened
Mr A opened a bank account with Lloyds in July 2020 and successfully applied to the bank 
for a Bounce Back Loan of £47,000 shortly afterwards. 
Lloyds subsequently conducted a review of Mr As account and the Bounce Back Loan 
application, restricting his access to the funds while it did so. The bank asked Mr A for 
evidence of his turnover, with a view to confirming his eligibility for the loan. Under the 
Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules, applicants could only borrow up to 25% of their annual 
turnover. 
Mr A provided some information to Lloyds about his trading activity and turnover, but 
ultimately the bank didnt think that this demonstrated that he met the eligibility 
requirements  so it terminated the loan and closed his account. 
Mr A complained but Lloyds decision remained unchanged, so he referred his concerns to 
us. He didnt think the bank had acted fairly, as hed provided the information it had 
requested to demonstrate his trading activity. He said that being deprived of the loan had 
impacted his business and caused him significant stress. He also felt the bank had 
discriminated against him.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong. 
He said that Lloyds had been entitled to review whether Mr A met the eligibility requirements 
for the loan even after it had been approved  and based on the information it had been 
given, he thought its decision to cancel the loan was reasonable. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view. He remained unhappy at how Lloyds had handled 
the matter and asked that the complaint be escalated for review, so it was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, an applicant could borrow up to a 
maximum of 25% of their annual turnover. Mr A applied to Lloyds for a loan of £47,000, so 
he needed to have a turnover of at least £188,000. This was based on the calendar year 
2019. Mr A declared that he did when making his application. So Lloyds approved the 
application on this basis  with applicants required to self-declare that they met the eligibility 
criteria, and lenders entitled to rely on their declaration.
Although the loan was initially approved and drawn down, Lloyds was entitled  and 
expected  to keep matters under review. This is in line with its anti-fraud obligations both 
under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and its wider legal and regulatory requirements. So I 
dont think the bank did anything wrong in conducting a review of the loan or the account.
Lloyds proceeded to review Mr As entitlement to the loan, ultimately deciding that this 
couldnt be confirmed. Ive considered what Mr A said and provided to both Lloyds and us on 
these points and, having done so, I think the banks decision was reasonable. I say this 
because:
Mr A had only recently opened his account with Lloyds, so it couldnt verify the 
turnover through the account activity. Mr A held an account with Halifax, part of the 
Lloyds Banking Group, but statements for that account didnt show the level of 
income Mr A had declared in his loan application.
Mr A provided statements for other accounts for transactions conducted during 2019 
and early 2020. But, even in conjunction with the Halifax statements, these didnt 
demonstrate that Mr A was turning over anything close to the £188,000 figure hed 
declared in his application. This included statements for a limited company, which  
as they related to a separate entity  couldnt be factored into the banks assessment 
of Mr As turnover.
Mr A didnt provide any other evidence that ought reasonably to have led Lloyds to 
accept the £188,000 figure that Mr A provided  such as a tax return. While some 
paperwork from HMRC and his accountant was provided, none of this confirmed 
Mr As income over the relevant period.
I think Lloyds gave Mr A reasonable opportunity to demonstrate his eligibility, before making 
its decision to terminate the loan.
Under the terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan, Lloyds was entitled to terminate 
the loan and demand its immediate repayment in certain circumstances. This included where 
any of the information provided within the application was found to have been misleading, 
incomplete or incorrect. So given what Ive said above, I think Lloyds was entitled to 
terminate the loan in the circumstances here. 
The actions Lloyds took when restricting and later closing Mr As accounts were in line with 
the applicable terms and conditions  and, given all Ive said about the concerns it had, were 
reasonable steps for the bank to take.
Looking at everything then, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in how it terminated and 
recalled the loan from Mr A, or in restricting and closing his account. And I dont think these 
decisions were based on anything other than the reasons Ive outlined above  so I dont 
think Lloyds discriminated against Mr A in any way. It follows that there is no basis on which 
I could fairly require Lloyds to take any action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Ben JenningsOmbudsman