DRN-3377586
The complaint
For many years, Mrs H has held a packaged bank account, called a Platinum account, with 
Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
The Platinum account offers Lloyds customers several potential benefits for which Lloyds 
usually charges monthly fees. For several years, customers could avoid paying the monthly 
fees if they met certain banking conditions. Lloyds called this arrangement a fee-waiver 
scheme. Lloyds withdrew this scheme in 2021. 
Mrs H previously qualified for the fee-waiver and has complained that Lloyds treated her 
unfairly when it withdrew the scheme. She thinks that if she continues to meet the terms of 
the scheme, Lloyds should continue to allow her to have the Platinum account free of 
charge.  
What happened
In June 2021, Lloyds wrote to Mrs H to say the fee-waiver scheme would end in
September 2021 and if she wanted to keep the Platinum account she would have to pay
the monthly fees from then on. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs Hs complaint and thought that
Lloyds had acted reasonably. Mrs H didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and
asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. So, it has come to me to make a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mrs Hs complaint. Ive 
looked into everything that Mrs H and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the case and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why below.
The crux of Mrs Hs complaint is that she believes Lloyds told her that she would never have 
to pay monthly fees if she met the conditions of the fee waiver scheme. 
I do not know what led Mrs H to believe that, subject to the relevant conditions, her Platinum 
account would always be free. But, banks are allowed to change the way they charge for 
their accounts provided they tell their customers what they are planning and give them 
reasonable notice and choices.
In June 2021, Lloyds sent Mrs H a letter about the end of the fee-waiver scheme. The letter 
was entitled The fee-waiver on your Platinum account will soon end. It told Mrs H that 
Lloyds would remove the scheme in September 2021, told her what the monthly fees would 
be and invited her to review whether the Platinum account would still be right for her. It said 
she could change to an account without monthly fees, albeit without the Platinum accounts
Benefits, if she so wished. I think Lloyds met its obligations to  Mrs H with this letter.
I understand from some of Lloyds correspondence with us about this complaint that some of 
the letters it sent to Mrs H may have been incorrectly address and may have contained 
some errors. However, the same correspondence also shows that it offered Mrs H fair 
compensation for this, which I understand it has paid. 
Im satisfied that Lloyds treated Mrs H fairly when it withdrew the fee-waiver scheme from 
her. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Hs complaint about
Lloyds Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to allow her to keep the Platinum account free of 
charge if she meets the terms of the previous fee-waiver scheme. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2022.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman