DRN-3321085
The complaint
Mr P complains  through a representative  that an investment sold to him in 1998 was 
unsuitable. Responsibility for the sale of the investment now sits with Zurich Assurance Ltd. 
To keep things clear, Ill refer to Zurich in this decision to mean them and their 
predecessors. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The fact find document from 1998 shows Mr P had disposable income and other 
assets that would have allowed him to recover modest losses. 
Affordability doesnt look to have been an issue. Ultimately, Mr P withdrew his money 
from the investment a few years later to invest in a property. That suggests he didnt 
need the money for everyday expenses, and could afford to keep it where it would 
take time to access. 
While the fund invested in did hold equities, these were spread over different areas 
and managed to continually monitor the overall risk of the fund. That reduces the risk 
posed by any one holding underperforming. 
Zurich had recommended investing a lower amount than Mr P ultimately invested. By 
investing more than that, Mr P  rather than Zurich  chose to increase the risk that 
poor fund performance could cause a loss that would be difficult to recover from. 
What we can see of the decision making process when recommending this 
investment shows Mr Ps personal circumstances were considered by Zurich in a 
thorough way. Their recommendations then followed reasonably from that fact-
finding exercise. 
Mr Ps representative has questioned where he was told about the risk of this 
investment. But I find the time thats passed since the investment ended reasonably 
explains the lack of evidence that Mr P was informed about the risk of his investment. 
For these reasons, Ive decided the service provided by Zurich was fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman