DRN-3720116
The complaint
Miss M complains that TSB Bank plc wont partially refund a faster payment. 
What happened
Miss M made two faster payments to a business for acting classes for her child. Miss M has 
explained that due to a dispute with the provider, her child was unable to attend the final two 
classes in the course. Miss M asked the provider for a partial refund but was refused. 
Miss M contacted TSB and asked it for help getting a partial refund for the final two classes. 
But TSB said there was no way to reclaim faster payments that were paid as instructed. Miss 
M went on to raise a complaint and said TSB shouldve made it clear there was no protection 
when making a faster payment. 
TSB didnt agree a partial refund and didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. Miss M referred her 
complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought TSB had dealt 
with Miss Ms case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss M asked to appeal and 
said TSB failed to make it clear there was no protection when making a faster payment. As 
Miss M asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Miss M asked TSB to step in after she was unable to resolve the situation 
with her course provider. As Miss M has said, if her payments had been made by debit or 
credit card, she may have been able to benefit from consumer protection, with a view to 
getting a refund. Miss Ms said its unfair that TSB doesnt operate a similar level of 
consumer protection for faster payments. But I think its reasonable to note that for 
chargebacks the scheme is operated by either Visa or Mastercard, not TSB. And Section 75 
claims can only be made in certain situations when a payment is made via credit. And that 
protection is underpinned by the rules TSB operates under rather than as a service its opted 
to provide. 
Here Miss M made a faster payment and, as TSB has confirmed, theres no such 
mechanism for obtaining a partial refund. Im sorry to disappoint Miss M but I agree with TSB 
that once the faster payment was sent there was no way to raise a dispute with the course 
provider. 
Miss Ms told us TSB shouldve given her a warning the faster payment didnt come with 
consumer protection. But I wouldnt expect TSB to issue a warning of that nature before 
every transaction or payment. Miss Ms highlighted the scam warnings provided to protect 
customers from fraud. Those warnings are in place, in part, because theres no mechanism 
for reclaiming correctly processed faster payments once made. The questions are asked to 
help check the payee is confident theyre making a genuine payment. And Miss Ms faster 
payment was correctly processed and genuine. Miss M is requesting a refund due to a 
dispute with the course provider, not because there were mistakes with the way the faster 
payment was processed. 
 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss M but I havent been persuaded that TSB made errors in this 
case. As Im satisfied TSB dealt with Miss Ms complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman