DRN-1349594
 
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way he has been treated while experiencing personal problems 
and financial difficulties.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr R made Bank of Scotland aware of some of his personal issues and his financial 
difficulties. It took steps to help. It asked for information about his income and 
expenditure. It also arranged two periods of a fee free overdraft, waived and 
refunded some fees and interest. It also sent information about organisations offering 
debt advice. I think thats reasonable and in line with Bank of Scotlands obligation to 
treat Mr R positively and sympathetically when he was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
Bank of Scotland also sent Mr R letters explaining that if he couldnt repay his 
overdraft it would be closing his account in the future and this might affect his credit 
file as it would record a default. The recoveries process, including that a default may 
be registered, was also explained to Mr R on the phone. And by the time Mr R was 
making some payments the account was already being closed and in the recoveries 
process. That resulted in all fees and interest being frozen. 
Overall, although I understand Mr Rs frustration, I think Bank of Scotland has acted 
reasonably and in line with the accounts terms and conditions. And as it hasnt made 
an error, including by registering the default, I cant fairly require it to do anything 
more or differently, including amending Mr Rs credit file as hed like.
 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Rs frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman