DRN-4318756
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont reimburse the money he says
he lost to a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Between 13 December 2021 and 3
February 2022, Mr C made three payments totalling £15,000 from his Barclays account. At
the time he believed he was settling an invoice from a building firm  I will refer to as P.
These were the first three instalments due to the builder  with the fourth payment coming
from his wifes account (this is being dealt with under a separate complaint reference). Mr C
had contracted with P (who had been recommended to him by another firm who had fitted
his windows) to do work at his home. The payments were paid into an account in the name
of P.
In June 2022, Mr C concluded hed been the victim of a scam  he reported this to Barclays
and employed a solicitor and attempted to start court proceedings but it seems P had
disappeared and stopped responding to Mr C and his legal representative. Ultimately
Barclays said they were unable to recover or return any funds.
Barclays considered this to be a civil dispute between Mr C and P, it also said it had no
concerns about the beneficiary account and no other claims of a similar nature had been
made. Mr C complained and when Barclays maintained its position, he referred his
complaint to our service.
One of our Investigators recommended the complaint should be upheld. In summary he
thought this was a scam and Barclays should refund Mr C in full under the Contingent
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. Barclays disagrees and maintains this is a buyer seller
dispute and it cannot conclude for certain that the builder had intentions from the start to
scam Mr C.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 August 2023 explaining why I was reaching a different
outcome to the investigator and concluding that this is a civil dispute. Mr C didnt agree and
outlined a number of reasons why he considers this to be a scam. Barclays did not reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and
regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
I understand Mr C has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure him that Ive
considered everything hes provided to support the complaint very carefully. I have read the
detailed response to my provisional decision. I have listened to the calls and reviewed all the 
evidence on the file.
However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points
raised. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised
or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by all
parties and reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the
case.
I think I should make it clear I am in no way finding in favour of P. The complaint I am
considering is against Barclays. I appreciate Mr C may feel that because I have deemed this
a civil matter and not a scam that I am supporting P - but that is not what Im saying. I cannot
decide the case between him and P. This is the whole point of my decision - that this is a 
civil dispute.
Listening to the calls Mr C has referred to - I cant comment on the content before the call
happens - but what Ive listened to just reinforces in my mind this is a civil dispute between 
the two parties. In the call with P, he seems to want to reach an agreement to carry on and 
still wants to do the job. Both parties are talking about solicitors and court action.
The reasons we cant deal with matters like this is quite simply we are not set up for this  I
cannot call witnesses (such as the new builder) or demand a third party such as P to give his
version of events. I can only look at Mr Cs dispute with Barclays.
In terms of the beneficiary bank account  I did explain in my provisional decision that I am
unable to share details about a third party and the nature of their relationship with their bank.
But I did explain the evidence Ive seen regarding the beneficiary account (including
statements) indicates that the builders account was legitimate and had been established
long before Mr Cs payments were made. And the bank hasnt said it had any concerns
about how the account was being operated prior to Mr C making his payments. I asked it
again recently to confirm no other similar claims had been made and it confirmed this was
still the case. This is not typical of a scammers account.
I appreciate Mr C does not agree, but this situation doesnt display the hallmarks most
typically associated with a scam. Even if I take the window fitters recommendation out of the
equation  I cant safely say that this situation meets the high legal threshold and burden of
proof for fraud. This is not to say that there is no issue at all between Mr C and the builder.
Clearly there is. But this type of dispute isnt something that the CRM Code covers (or we as
an organisation are set up to deal with). So, I dont think it was unfair for Barclays to take the
view that it was unable to refund Mr C under the CRM Code.
I also understand how helpless Mr C may feel and how frustrating it is - as I cant adequately
answer his questions  but this type of cross examination is better placed as a civil dispute.
I realise how difficult things have been for Mr C and his wife and I know he will remain very
disappointed by my decision. However, for the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied Mr C
isnt due a refund under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there are any other grounds on which
I could say Barclays should, fairly and reasonably, have done more or that it should bear the
responsibility for the remaining loss.
Despite Mr Cs detailed response to my provisional decision and strength of feeling, my
decision remains the same and for completeness, I have set this out below:
It isnt in dispute that Mr C authorised the payment that left his account. But he alleges that
he has been the victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam and that Ps intent fromthe start was to deceive him.
Barclays are also a signatory to the voluntary CRM Code. This is a scheme through which
victims of APP fraud can sometimes receive reimbursement from the banks involved. But the
CRM Code does not apply to private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a
legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are
defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
So, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly, when concluding that this amounted to a
civil dispute and not a scam. Im intending to find that they did, and Ill explain why.
Whilst I can quite understand why Mr C feels that P has scammed him, there is a high legal
threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or
failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for himself or of causing
loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). And there are a
number of potential reasons (other than a scam) for the breakdown in a relationship between
two parties and for a dispute to exist.
Mr C has provided a picture which shows work in progress  including foundations and
blocks laid. I appreciate Mr Cs opinion is that the value of the work completed does not
reflect what they had paid, and he feels the quality of that work was inadequate and unsafe.
Whilst this would clearly be unacceptable to Mr C, this doesnt mean that it meets the bar to
be considered a scam where its required for the intention to have been to deceive from the
start.
In addition, the Councils building inspector report shows numerous visits to the site between
21 January 2022 and 11 May 2022. The entries reflect that foundations appear to have been
laid and damp course proofing and lintels were in place. I also acknowledge Mr C says the
work was done poorly or incorrectly, but that isnt, in itself, evidence of this being a scam.
The payments, which include those made from Mr Cs wifes account, took place between 21
December 2021 and 18 March 2022 (around three months in total). Whilst there may have
been delays and occasions when the builder wasnt on site (for example the inspectors
entry of 4 February 2022 indicates the builder was not on site due to rain) there was
presumably enough work done during this time to reassure Mr C sufficiently to make further
payments  including what ended up being the final one from his wifes account on 18 March
2022.
Mr C also told us that P had been recommended by another reputable firm who had fitted
his windows. This doesnt support that P was operating a scam, rather that something
seems to have gone wrong and that this was a private civil dispute between Mr C and P.
Whilst I am unable to share details about a third party and the nature of their relationship
with their bank, the evidence Ive seen, regarding the beneficiary account, indicates that the
builders account was legitimate and had been established long before Mr Cs payment was
made. And the bank hasnt said it had any concerns about how the account was being
operated prior to Mr C making his payments. I asked it again recently to confirm no other
similar claims had been made and it confirmed this was still the case.
Its entirely possible that P had overcommitted in the work hed taken on and had been
unable to complete all the work hed agreed. Certainly, the last Council inspection entry
might suggest that. The last entry on the Councils inspection report does indicate there may
have been a minor boundary dispute and that the fence was in the wrong place against Land
Registry information. The note suggests the inspector had advised the builder to contact
planning.
I must make a decision on what I think is most likely to have happened. And, based on the
evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely the builder here was attempting to operate as alegitimate business at the time and that other factors ultimately meant the building work
wasnt completed. I dont think the builder set out from the beginning with the intent to
defraud Mr C, or that Mr C has been the victim of a scam here.
Barclays did give Mr C a warning when the payment was made. Im not going to go into
detail on this because, given that Im supportive of Barclays decision to conclude this is a
civil dispute, there isnt any basis upon which any further intervention ought reasonably to
have caused concern with the payment. So, I cant fairly criticise Barclays for not having
done more in these circumstances.
I know this will be a huge disappointment to Mr C  especially as my conclusions differ from
the Investigators. This is not a decision Ive made lightly. I appreciate how Mr C feels about
this case, and that his property was left unfinished and he has had to pay for another builder
to finish the work. And some of the information he has sent us does suggest the builder
wasnt acting professionally. I sympathise with the position Mr C has found himself in, and
Im in no way saying he did anything wrong or that he doesnt have a legitimate grievance
against the builder. But, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it would be fair to
hold Barclays responsible for the money hes lost.
So, I dont think the payments Mr C made to the builder are covered under the CRM Code,
or that Barclays should be required to refund the money he lost.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman