DRN-4440075
The complaint
Miss N says Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, irresponsible lent to her. 
What happened
In April 2022 Miss N opened a credit card account with Virgin Money. She was given a credit 
limit of £8,300 and transferred in balances of £6,000 and £1,725 onto a promotional 0% 
interest rate until 28 February 2025. 
Miss N says the credit was not affordable to her. She has no money left at the end of a 
month and asks for all fees to be refunded.
Virgin Money says it assessed the affordability before lending to Miss N and assigned an 
appropriate credit limit.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ns complaint. He said Virgin Money lent responsibly. 
Whilst he felt it should have checked Miss Ns actual income, had it done so it could fairly 
have made the same lending decision based on what Miss Ns bank statements from the 
time showed.
Miss N disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. She said the 
investigator has taken into account savings she used to supplement her salary whilst she 
was on maternity leave which is unfair. And her outgoings werent as high as they would 
usually be either, as she was on maternity leave the statements only show the bare 
minimum.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules,
guidance and good industry practice - is set out on our website and I have followed it here.
Virgin Money is required to lend responsibly. It needed to conduct checks to make sure that 
the credit card it was giving to Miss N was affordable and sustainable. Such checks need to
be proportionate to things like the credit limit it offered Miss N, how much she had to repay
(including interest and charges) each month, her borrowing history with it and what it knew
about her circumstances. But there is no set list of checks it had to do.
This means to reach my decision I need to consider if Virgin Money carried out proportionate
checks at the time of Miss Ns card application; if so, did it make a fair lending decision 
based on the results of its checks; and if not, what better checks would most likely have 
shown.
 
When Miss N applied for the credit card Virgin Money asked about her gross annual income 
(£60,000) and household income (£160,000). It verified her declared income with an external 
agency and used a lower figure (around £33,000) based on these checks. It carried out a 
credit check to understand her credit history and existing credit commitments. Based on the 
results of these checks Virgin Money concluded Miss N could sustainably afford the card 
with a limit of £8,300.
I am not wholly satisfied these checks were proportionate based on the initial results. The 
work Virgin Money did to verify Miss Ns income showed her to be earning almost half what 
she had declared. I think given the size of this discrepancy it ought to have asked for 
evidence of her actual salary, and wider financial situation, to ensure the card was 
affordable.
In cases like this we look at bank statements from the months prior to the credit application. I 
am not saying Virgin Money had to do exactly this, but it is a reliable way for me to 
understand Miss Ns financial position at the time. Miss Ns statements for the three months 
before show average monthly incomings of around £2,900 made up of salary payments, 
HMRC credits and what Miss N has confirmed was money she had saved to 
supplement/replace income whilst she was on maternity leave. 
So had Virgin Money carried out a fuller income review I think it could fairly have made the 
same decision that the credit was affordable for Miss N. In addition, from what I can see on 
the statements there were no signs of financial difficulties such as the persistent reliance on 
an overdraft, use of payday loans, or returned direct debits. And there was a relatively high 
level of discretionary spend. I know Miss N argues her fixed outgoings were normally higher, 
but unless she had disclosed more about her circumstances to Virgin Money I am not sure it 
could have known this from proportionate checks. I also dont find it would have been 
unreasonable for the lender to take into account money Miss N had saved to use whilst on 
maternity leave. Arguably, as she had that facility, it could in the circumstances have been 
discriminatory not to consider it.
And none of the information in Virgin Moneys credit check showed that Miss N might 
struggle to make her repayments. She had just over £13,400 of debt across nine active 
accounts. All were up-to-date and she had no historic adverse data on her file, such as 
defaults or County Court Judgments. Her monthly credit repayments were around £570. And 
Miss N was taking out the card, for the most part, to transfer interest-earning balances onto 
its 0% interest rate for three years. It was only extending Miss Ns total credit exposure by 
£575, and was allowing her to move £7,725 of interest-bearing debt onto a 0% interest rate 
thereby reducing her monthly cost of credit.
It follows I dont think Virgin Money was wrong to give the card to Miss N.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman