DRN-2501335
The complaint
Mrs C complains about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy that was added to her 
credit card account by Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds).
What happened
Mrs C successfully applied for a credit card with Lloyds in November 1987. Mrs C says at 
the same time in a meeting she was sold a PPI policy.
The PPI that was sold to Mrs C was designed to protect her monthly card repayments if she 
wasnt working because of accident, sickness, unemployment or redundancy.
Mrs C says Lloyds mis-sold the policy. She says at no point was PPI discussed as being part 
of the card or that it was optional.
An adjudicator looked into Mrs Cs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Mrs C 
disagrees and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case. 
Our adjudicator was not sure when the PPI policy was sold. Since they issued their view, 
Mrs C has recollected that the policy was sold in a branch meeting when she also applied for 
her card. Lloyds havent been able to say when the policy was sold, so as this is the case, I 
have proceeded as Mrs C remembers, that the policy was sold in a branch meeting at the 
same time as the card.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint for the following reasons:
As I have already mentioned I have very little to read or consider about this sale. This 
is not surprising given the amount of time thats passed. Ive looked at what Mrs C 
has said about how the policy was sold  that PPI was not discussed. But it has been 
very difficult for me to understand how this would have happened with so little 
information available about this sale. And in the absence of relevant documentation, 
a more detailed recollection from either party or further information to support what 
Mrs C has said, I cannot fairly conclude on this occasion that the policy was sold as 
she suggests it was. I would need to see more information to support what Mrs C has 
said to conclude otherwise. 
I cant be sure if Lloyds gave a recommendation to Mrs C to have the policy but even 
if it did recommend the PPI, I think it was suitable for her anyway. I have looked at 
policy terms from around the time of sale as recollected by Mrs C. From what I have 
found I can see that any claim under the policy more likely could be paid for up to 12 
months. Mrs C would have found the benefit from the cover provided useful in an 
extended time of need (she says she would have relied on statutory sick pay and had 
no other means). Mrs C also wasnt adversely affected by any of the policys main 
exclusions.
I cant see that Lloyds explained about the policys main terms as clearly as it 
shouldve done. But for the same reasons as the policy was suitable, I dont think this 
wouldve made a difference to Mrs Cs decision to buy the policy.
It has been very difficult for me to get an understanding as to what happened during this sale 
due to the lack of information available. But on balance, I dont think Mrs C was mis-sold the 
PPI policy. This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the cover to Mrs C. 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of PPI to Mrs C because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost of the 
cover to Mrs C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award 
any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman