DRN-2313774
The complaint
Mr H says PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) - irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
This complaint is about one loan Mr Lender provided to Mr H in February 2014. It was for 
£400 and was due to repaid in one payment of £540 17 days after Mr H had taken the loan 
out. The loan wasnt repaid until July 2016. 
The complaint has been reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they upheld Mr Hs 
complaint and thought the loan shouldnt have been given because had Mr Lender properly 
considered the information it had gathered about Mr H, it would have likely seen he was in 
arrears with other short-term debts as well as his mortgage. This suggested Mr H was 
having difficulties managing his money.  
Mr Lender disagreed and said the information about Mr Hs arrears would not have been 
evident on the credit review it did prior to lending to him. It also stated the checks it did carry 
out were proportionate to the amount of the loan and the stage of the borrowing relationship 
between itself and Mr H. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me to issue a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. Having done this, Im upholding Mr Hs 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Lender says it carried out checks before it lent the loan to Mr H and the results of these 
checks didnt raise any concerns. But given the amount Mr H was expected to repay in one 
instalment combined with his declared monthly income, I think Mr Lender should have been 
looking to build a clearer picture than this about Mr Hs finances before lending him this loan. 
Had Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks before lending the loan, its likely to have 
found that Mr H was borrowing from other short-term lenders and  as well as the 
repayments for these other loans increasing his monthly outgoings  he was also in arrears 
with some of them. More importantly, Mr Lender is also likely to have found Mr H was in 
arrears with his mortgage account. And this information was a strong indication Mr H was in 
a cycle of debt which was becoming increasingly more difficult to sustain. I think this was 
shown by the fact that it took Mr H over two years to repay a loan which should have been 
repaid in just over two weeks. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr H at this loan, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So, Mr Lender should do the following:
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on loan 1;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about this loan from Mr Hs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr H complaint. PDL Finance Limited should put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman