DRN-4118594
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, 
irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr R opened a credit card account with Tesco Bank July 2015. His credit limit was £2,100. 
In July 2018 Tesco Bank increased Mr Rs credit limit to £4,100. And in August 2021, at Mr 
Rs request, Tesco Bank increased Mr Rs credit limit for a final time to £5,100.
 
Mr R says that Tesco Bank acted irresponsibly by providing him with the credit limit 
increases from July 2018. He says he had struggled with repayments on the card and was 
always close to his limit and only paid the minimum amount. He asks that Tesco Bank put 
him back in the position he would have been in if Tesco Bank hadnt given him the credit 
limit increases by refunding the interest and charges he paid as a result of the credit limit 
increases.
 
Tesco Bank says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Mr R and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Mr R. 
Our investigator first thought that Mr Rs complaint shouldnt be upheld. They thought that 
Tesco Bank had conducted sufficient checks and acted appropriately on the results of those 
checks. However, Mr R provided more information after our investigators view which 
changed our investigators mind. Our investigator wrote to both parties and explained that 
they thought the decisions to increase Mr Rs credit limit were not fair.
Tesco Bank disagreed. It said it had done sufficient checks and there were no indications of 
any financial strain. 
As Tesco Bank disagreed the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Rs complaint. Having 
done so, I agree with our adjudicators view.
Tesco Bank needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Rs income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Tesco Bank should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr R. These factors include 
things like understanding the total amount Mr R borrowed, the length of time Mr R had been 
indebted and how much disposable income he had. 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Mr R hasnt complained about the opening of his account, so I have concentrated on what 
happened when his credit limit was increased, first in July 2018 and then in August 2021.
Tesco has provided evidence of the checks it completed when it increased Mr Rs limit. It 
noted that Mr R appeared to be managing his finances well. He had no adverse data in 
relation to his wider financial circumstances as he had no arrears or defaults and no County 
Court Judgments. Mr R wasnt over his limit on his Tesco Bank credit card and he hadnt 
missed any payments in the preceding six months. Mr R appeared relatively lowly indebted, 
with a total outstanding debt of £6,651. Tesco Bank wasnt initially able to provide evidence 
of Mr Rs income at the exact time of the credit limit increase, but three months earlier, in 
April 2018, credit bureau data indicated it was £1,024 a month. Tesco Bank later updated 
this to £1,485 in May 2018 and £2,153 in June 2018.
On this basis it decided that the £2,000 increase was affordable. Indeed, it concluded that Mr 
R could afford up to a further £5,000, although it did not provide him with all of this. Tesco 
Bank described the £2,000 increase as modest by comparison. Tesco Bank says to have 
done further checks, such as to verify Mr Rs income and expenditure, would have been 
disproportionate. 
If Mr R had used his full limit of £4,100 hed have had to pay around £200 a month to 
sustainably repay the credit card borrowing over a reasonable period. And Mr R had other 
unsecured borrowing. He had a loan from Tesco Bank which hed taken out in January 2018, 
the repayments for which, it seems from Mr Rs evidence, were about £435 a month. Mr R 
also had an overdraft, which at the time of the credit limit increase was over £2,000. He was 
paying daily fees on this borrowing, too. Again, to repay the overdraft over a reasonable 
period I think Mr R needed to be able to decrease his overdraft by at least £100 each month. 
On this basis, Mr Rs existing sustainable repayments towards his unsecured debt were 
around £735 a month.
Mr R appeared to have a widely varying income  it differed by more than 100% over the 
three months prior to the credit limit increase. In April, Tesco Banks bureau data indicated it 
was £1,024. In May it was £1,485 and in June 2018 it was £2,153. On the basis of Mr Rs 
April income his repayments would have accounted for around 70% of his monthly income. 
In May it would have accounted for around 50%. In June 2018  the month before the credit 
limit increase, it would have accounted for only around 30% of his income. Tesco Bank says 
its assessments indicated that Mr R had a net disposable income of around £660 a month 
once payments towards all his unsecured debt and all his living expenses were taken into 
account.
I think the variability of Mr Rs income ought to have caused Tesco Bank to do more checks. 
I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate for Tesco Bank to seek to verify Mr 
Rs income and expenditure. Tesco Bank suggests this was disproportionate, but I disagree. 
It was increasing Mr Rs borrowing on the credit card by nearly 100%, so I dont think it was 
unreasonable to expect Tesco Bank to act on obvious anomalies such as his income when it 
had that information.I dont know exactly how Tesco Bank would have chosen to do this. There is no prescriptive 
list of checks when it comes to lending. However, in the absence of any other evidence I 
think its fair to rely on the evidence Mr R has provided this service in the form of his bank 
statements and information about the benefits he received and his tax records.
 
In April 2018, when Tesco identified Mr R had an income of £1,024, Mr Rs bank statements 
show a different picture. His income was around £350, which only covered his rent. It didnt 
cover any of his other essential expenses, which I have calculated to be around £200. His 
repayments for credit were around a further £550, leaving Mr R with a shortfall over the 
month of around £750.
In May 2018 Mr Ts essential expenditure on things like rent, utility bills, food and motoring 
expenses came to around £730. Adding in his overdraft fees, loan repayment and credit card 
repayment he spent a further £555. I identified an income from wages of £897.85, although 
there are other unidentified transfers in from other accounts and from Mr Rs business 
account of around £1,145 making a total of around £2,045. On this basis Mr R had a 
disposable income of around £700 that month.
 
In June 2018 Mr Rs income from his employer was around £1,190 although I again 
identified a further £700 from an additional unidentified deposit. His outgoings were lower at 
only £415  there was no rent payment that month. This left him with a disposable income of 
around £910 a month.
So, over the course of the three months leading up to the credit limit increase Mr R averaged 
a disposable income of £290 a month. However, he was making only minimum repayments 
on his credit card each month. If he had been repaying it at a sustainable rate of 5% of his 
balance each month his disposable income would have been closer to £240 a month. 
Further potential borrowing of up to £2,000 extra, which if he utilised it all would have 
resulted in a need to pay an additional £100 a month, would leave Mr R with disposable 
income of around £140 a month. I dont think this was sufficient for Mr R to be able to 
manage any unexpected expenditure, especially given the variability of his income. On this 
basis, I do not think Tesco ought to have provided Mr R with more credit. 
I have looked to see whether Mr Rs circumstances improved at the time of his later credit 
limit increase in August 2021. Mr R has provided evidence that he was reliant on Universal 
Credit. He had been in receipt of Self-Employment Income Support Scheme (SEISS) grants, 
which were introduced to support self-employed people during the Covid pandemic. Mr R 
has provided evidence that he was in debt to HMRC and was being fined for non-payment of 
tax. Im satisfied that Mr Rs financial position was worse in 2021 than it was in 2018, which 
means that I think if Tesco had completed necessary and proportionate checks at that time it 
would have concluded Mr R could not afford the additional credit.
So, on balance, on the information available to me, I dont think Tesco Bank completed 
necessary and proportionate checks. If it had done so, I think it would have understood that 
the borrowing was unaffordable for Mr R. I think Mr R lost out as a result of what Tesco Bank 
did wrong.
Putting things right
As I dont think Tesco Bank ought to have provided the credit limit increases in 2018 or 
2021, I dont think its fair for it to be able to charge any interest or charges on balances 
above £2,100. But I think Mr M should pay back the amount he has borrowed. Therefore, 
Tesco Bank should:Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not
already refunded) that have been applied on balances above £2,100.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr R along
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement. Tesco Bank should also remove all adverse information
regarding this account from Mr Rs credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Tesco Bank should
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr R for the remaining amount.
Once Mr R has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the
account should be removed from his credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr R a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint about unaffordable lending and direct Tesco Bank plc to pay 
compensation as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman