DRN-2485141
The complaint
Miss A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has applied unfair charges to a payment which 
was returned.
What happened
Miss A visited a branch of HSBC to make an international payment of around 100,000 euros. 
There was a delay of over an hour as there was confusion over who was the beneficiary of 
the funds but ultimately the transfer was completed.
While walking home, Miss A realised the wrong beneficiary details had been processed and 
rang HSBC to either get the beneficiary name changed or to cancel the transfer, as she 
didnt want the funds to end up in the wrong companys account.
HSBC said they are unable to change beneficiary names anymore as this could be a sign of 
fraud, so the funds were transferred back to Miss A. Because of the relevant fees and a 
different currency exchange rate, when the funds were returned this resulted in Miss A 
receiving nearly £3,000 less than the payment sent.
Miss A complained to HSBC as she said this was not her error, the member of staff who 
processed the payment was flustered and spent over an hour trying to find the beneficiary. 
When she realised the error, she tried to change the beneficiary or if that wasnt possible, to 
cancel the transaction and that she wanted the loss refunded to her.
HSBC said that they did not identify a bank error as Miss A had signed the priority payment 
customer form, confirming that the details were correct. They also said they were unable to 
amend the beneficiary as this was a significant change, so the payment was recalled. 
Miss A complained to HSBC about this. HSBC said that when a payment is processed an 
exchange rate is booked and they buy the relevant currency for the payment at that cost. If a 
payment is returned then they have to convert the funds back to GBP, so they can credit the 
customers account. They do that using an HSBC live rate which includes their margins  
but if this results in a loss then they pass this loss to their customer which is in line with the 
terms of an account. Miss A remained unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our 
service.
The investigator looked at all of the information and concluded that she didnt think HSBC 
had done anything wrong as they completed the transfer by following the instructions that 
were on the signed payment authority form. The conversion fees and charges were applied  
in line with the terms and conditions and that the delay was due to the incorrect beneficiary 
details being given.
HSBC accepted the view of the investigator, but Miss A did not. Miss A told the investigator 
that as HSBC has never physically converted currencies "back and forth" but simply 
performed internal netting. She feels this is an artificial cost in order to generate money and 
as HSBC havent made a physical loss then they should return the fees minus the £330 fee 
for processing the payment.
She asked for HSBC to prove where they incurred the costs here and noted that there was 
no breakdown of these costs. So she wanted her complaint to be forwarded to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A has made a number of points to both HSBC and this service and Ive considered and 
read everything shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal body Ill only be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here.
It does seem like there was some confusion when Miss A went to the branch to make the 
payment here. Both sides have acknowledged that it took some time to find the correct 
details. It then seems that the payment was ultimately made to a company other than the 
one Miss A wanted to pay.
But I dont think itd be fair to hold HSBC liable for that. HSBC have provided the signed 
authority from Miss A to make the payment in the way they ultimately did. Miss A had the 
opportunity at that point to check that the beneficiary was correct and by signing this  I think 
HSBC was entitled to carry out her instruction in line with the information provided here. I 
havent seen anything which makes me think that HSBC could fairly be held responsible for 
her making the payment in this way as she signed to say the details were correct.
When Miss A realised that something may have gone wrong here, she contacted HSBC and 
asked them to recall the payment. In a situation like that, Id expect HSBC to do all they 
could to help Miss A. Im satisfied they did that here. They recalled the payment as they 
werent able to make such significant amendments to the payment instruction and thats a 
fair way of dealing with this.
In circumstances like these the relevant terms and conditions here say that when a payment 
is returned, they will reverse it using the exchange rate at that time. The exchange rate 
might have changed. So the amount we pay back may be more or less than we originally 
took from your account. So I think HSBC were entitled to have done this here, even if this 
was at a cost to Miss A.
Ive considered whether theres any reason that HSBC shouldnt have dealt with this 
situation as they did. Ive taken into account all that Miss A has said, but HSBC has 
explained that when a payment is processed an exchange rate is booked and the relevant 
currency is purchased on the basis of that cost. That is common industry practice. The 
difference in exchange rates then resulted in a loss to HSBC which, in line with the terms 
and conditions here  they passed on to Miss A.
I think thats a fair explanation as to why HSBC deducted the amount they did from the 
amount in question here. Miss A has raised several concerns about how she feels that this is 
an artificial cost to HSBC that they are unfairly passing onto her. HSBC has said that they 
used the live rate which is confirmed in the terms and conditions, which Miss A would have 
agreed to. This does include a margin for HSBC  but making payments like this is a service 
theyre providing and theyre entitled to apply a margin like this as a business.
Its not for this service to decide whether a business like HSBCs rates or margins here are 
unfair or too high in a general sense. Instead my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this individual dispute. In doing so, its clear to me that HSBC has 
treated this attempted payment as they should have. Theyve applied the relevant rates and 
charges to the transaction, in line with the terms and conditions here and Miss A agreed to 
those prior to attempting the transaction. While I realise that has resulted in a loss for Miss A 
 I cant say that theyve treated her unfairly.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman