DRN-4144769
The complaint
Mr M complains Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby) provided him with 
loans which left him in financial trouble. 
What happened
Mr M was granted three loans from Shelby and a summary of his borrowing can be found in 
the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentsmonthly 
repaymnet
1 £300.00 19/10/2021 21/10/2021 3 £162.31
2 £300.00 05/02/2022 31/05/2022 3 £143.71
3 £150.00 07/06/2021 30/09/2022 3 £71.79
Shelby considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans based on proportionate checks and the information it received at the 
time. Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said, Shelby had 
carried out proportionate checks before each loan was approved which demonstrated Mr M 
could afford his repayments. 
Mr M didnt agree, and he asked for a final decision. He also supplied copies of his bank 
account statements. As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Shelbys checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M. The adjudicator didnt consider it 
applied in Mr Ms complaint.
 
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Shelby carried out the same sort of checks before each loan 
was advanced and in my view these checks were proportionate and showed Mr M could 
afford his repayments. Ive explained why Ive come to this conclusion below. 
Before each loan was approved, Shelby asked for details of Mr Ms income and expenditure. 
Mr Ms income was declared as being £1,500 per month for loan one, £1,700 for loan two 
and £2,050 for loan three. Shelby also says this amount was cross referenced with a credit 
reference agency to verify its accuracy.
He also declared monthly outgoings ranging from £610 at loan one to £800 at loan three. 
However, as part of the application, Shelby overlaid what Mr M had declared about his 
expenditure with data from two different sources and then if needed, it would make 
adjustments to the figures Mr M had provided. Firstly, it used Office of National Statistics 
(ONS) data and secondly, it used information from Mr Ms credit search (which Ill go into in 
more detail below). And having done so, Shelby adjusted the figures provided for loans one 
and three.  
For loan one, it increased Mr Ms outgoings to £795 each month, which still left £705 each 
month to enable Mr M to make the repayment of around £163. For loan three, Mr Ms 
expenditure was increased to £1,349  which left £701 of disposable income each month.  
Based solely, on the income and expenditure data the loans looked affordable. 
Before each loan was approved Shelby also carried out a credit search and it has provided a 
summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here 
that although Shelby carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do 
one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Shelby couldnt do is carry out a credit 
search and then not react to the information it received  if necessary.  Having reviewed the credit check results, my view is there isnt anything in any of the results 
that wouldve indicated that Mr M was having financial difficulties, for example it knew there 
were no insolvency markers or defaults within the 12 months preceding each loan. There 
also wasnt anything within the results that indicated Mr M was reliant on these sorts of high-
cost credit loans. And while the results did show previously Mr M had taken payday loans, 
before loan one there hadnt been any such loans within the preceding six months. 
In my view, just thinking about the credit check results these wouldnt have led Shelby to 
either have carried out further checks such as reviewing bank statements or prompted it to 
have declined Mr Ms applications for credit. 
Overall, there was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen to have led Shelby to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Mr M declared. So, while Mr M has provided copy bank statements it wouldve been, in my 
view, disproportionate for Shelby to have considered them. 
Given the evidence provided, I think the checks Shelby carried out before each loan was 
proportionate which showed it that Mr M would be able to afford the repayments, he was 
committed to making. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr M was having 
financial difficulties or that these loans would be unsustainable for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman