DRN-4042753
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Charter Court Financial Services Limited treated them unfairly by not 
notifying them of its plans to launch a new fixed rate bond, whilst they were applying for its 
existing fixed rate bond.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a pot of savings with Charter Court. They applied to invest these savings 
in a one-year fixed rate savings bond. 
Charter Court arranged the bond in line with Mr and Mrs Bs request. Minutes after doing so, 
it relaunched its one-year fixed rate savings bond at a higher rate of interest. 
Realising hed narrowly missed out on the superior rate of interest, Mr B complained. He felt 
Charter Court shouldve informed him the rates were due to change, so he couldve 
benefited from the enhanced rate. Because it didnt do so, Mr and Mrs Bs money was 
locked into the bond theyd applied for, for a full year, at a lower rate of interest. 
Charter Court defended Mr Bs complaint. It argued it couldnt be expected to have notified 
him in advance that its rates were changing, as this wouldnt be fair on its other customers. 
Charter Court said itd processed Mr and Mrs Bs application in line with their request, and 
the firms stated terms and conditions. Mr B didnt accept Charter Courts response, so he 
referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it was their opinion that: 
Changing interest rates were a risk which was inherent to the type of account Mr and 
Mrs B had chosen to invest in. This risk was especially pronounced at the time of 
their application due to the action taken by the Bank of England. 
Charter Court wasnt required to notify its customers in advance of any new products 
it was launching, whatever their interest rates might be. 
Mr and Mrs Bs application had been handled in line with Charter Courts terms and 
conditions, and they werent persuaded itd treated the couple unfairly. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators opinion, so the matter has been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I shant be upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, for largely the same 
reasons given by our investigator. 
Ive studied the product literature Charter Court made available to Mr and Mrs B via its 
website. Im satisfied the bonds key features, including the rate of interest, the one-year 
term, and its restrictions on any withdrawals, were presented in a way that was clear, fair 
and not misleading. As it wasnt advising the couple, Charter Court only needed to provide 
enough information about how its bond functioned for Mr and Mrs B to have made an 
informed decision about whether the product was right for them. Im satisfied Charter Court 
met with its obligation here. 
It is unfortunate for Mr and Mrs B that their application was submitted in the midst of a series 
of increases the Bank of England made to its base rate of interest. One effect of this has 
been that the rates of interest available to savers have regularly increased. This risk is 
inherent to the kind of cash based investing that Mr and Mrs B have opted for when selecting 
a fixed rate bond. Rates are only available for as long as savings providers are prepared to 
offer them, and there is no requirement for firms like Charter Court to warn prospective 
customers if new rates will soon be available. Charter Court is a business, and as such its 
entitled to use its own commercial judgement to decide what rates it will set and when it will 
set them. Im satisfied it was not unfair of it to do so in these circumstances. 
Mr B has suggested that, acting fairly and reasonably, Charter Court shouldve delayed his 
application to ensure he was able to achieve the better rate. But I cannot reasonably expect 
the firm to have done this. Mr and Mrs B gave specific instructions that they wanted to apply 
for the bond at a rate of interest theyd accepted. Charter Court has processed their 
application in line with their request and its terms and conditions, so I dont accept its treated 
them unfairly. 
Like our investigator, Im not persuaded Charter Court would be treating the rest of its 
customers fairly if it singled Mr and Mrs B out to tell them about an upcoming rate change, or 
otherwise delayed their application to ensure they were put in the best position possible. The 
system Charter Court has implemented here of accepting applications for one bond before 
taking it down and replacing it with another is simplistic. But it is not, in my opinion, unfair. 
Mr B has ascribed great significance to Charter Courts reference to itself in its marketing as 
being his partner. His suggestion appears to be that this confers a greater set of obligations 
on it than would exist with other firms. But in this context, this label has no special meaning 
in any of the regulations relevant to the matter at hand. Therefore Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable of me to hold Charter Court to only the relevant rules and standards that apply in 
circumstances such as these.    
Once again, it is unfortunate that Mr and Mrs Bs money is now locked into a bond at a time 
where savings rates have increased significantly. But Charter Courts terms around not 
allowing withdrawals during the fixed term arent unusual for products of this type. Im 
satisfied they were made sufficiently prominent in its product literature, and that Mr and Mrs 
B accepted these terms when applying for the bond. Overall, Im not persuaded that Charter 
Court has treated the couple unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman