DRN-2982517
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a packaged bank account (PBA).
 
What happened
Mr M had had a bank account with Lloyds since 1986. This was, at first, fee free. At some 
point before September 2001, this was changed to a Select account. This was a PBA, 
costing a monthly fee in return for certain benefits. September 2001 is the earliest record 
that Lloyds have of charges to Mr Ms account  its records about this dont go back any 
further. 
In September 2001 the monthly fee was £4. There were a few other minor benefits, but the 
main benefit was vehicle breakdown cover.  
Mr M also complained about the sale of a Platinum PBA, which he changed to in 2005. 
However, our adjudicator agreed with Lloyds that we cant look into that. This is because of 
the time limits under our rules, and because the adjudicator said Mr M should have realised 
earlier he had a reason to complain several years ago. Mr M hasnt said he disagrees with 
the adjudicators opinion on that, and so were not looking into the sale of the Platinum 
account any further.
The time limits dont apply to the sale of the Select account. Even though it was sold earlier, 
we dont have evidence Mr M should have known he could complain about that. So, here in 
this decision, Im looking only at the sale of the Select PBA, which happened sometime 
before September 2001. 
Our adjudicator looked at the evidence and said the complaint about the Select PBA 
shouldnt be upheld. Mr M didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The problem is that this all happened at least twenty years ago, and probably longer ago 
that that. Not surprisingly there isnt any surviving documentation to show whats likely to 
have happened when the Select account started for Mr M. 
It is likely Lloyds recommended the PBA, which means it needed to assess Mr Ms 
circumstances, and to make sure the PBA was a good fit for him. But I dont have good 
evidence to say this wasnt the case. Mr M has confirmed be had a use for car breakdown 
insurance, which was the main benefit. So that would have made a recommendation likely 
to be appropriate. It would have been for him to decide whether the cost was good value 
for money.
Also, in some circumstances, by having the PBA, hed have saved more in overdraft 
charges than he would have paid in his monthly PBA fee.  I dont though know whether 
this was something hed have found potentially useful. 
Overall, I dont have strong enough evidence to say the PBA was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman