The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to process an online transaction and 
provided him with poor service.
What happened
On the 12 September 2019 Mr C tried to make an online payment for £2,240 from his 
Barclays account. He'd earlier made a successful payment of £10 to the same payee. 
However he was notified that this second payment was delayed for security checks. 
Mr C was unable to resolve this online and is unhappy that after he missed a telephone call 
from Barclays the next day it didnt provide a freephone number for him to contact it on. 
When Mr C did try to call Barclays it didnt respond within what he feels was a reasonable 
time frame. 
Mr C later tried to log into his online bank account again, but it had been blocked. He spoke 
to Barclays but was travelling at the time and so had limited information about his account to 
hand and wasnt able to answer all of its security questions to regain access. 
He contacted Barclays again on 15 September 2019 and spent around 30 minutes on the 
telephone before being told that to unblock his account hed need to visit a branch with some 
identification.  
Mr C did this the next day. But when he returned home and checked his online account he 
found there was no reference to the payment hed tried to make on the 12 September 2019. 
And after spending considerable time on the telephone to Barclays he was told hed need to 
make the payment again. 
Mr C did this, but was again told his payment had been stopped for a security check. He 
received a call from Barclays about it that afternoon, and is unhappy he was asked security 
questions when he had no way of being certain who was calling him. He says he was again 
offered a chargeable number to call back on before the advisor suggested he ring 
the number on the back of his card. After spending a long time speaking to numerous 
advisors his payment was eventually authorised. 
When Mr C raised a complaint with Barclays it said that his payment had been stopped and 
his account blocked in line with its process and policies designed to protect customers from 
fraud and scams. It also explained that it does provide free methods of contact. But agreed 
that its customer service had not been to its usual high standard and offered £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Mr C wasnt happy with this response so he brought his complaint to our service. He says 
that Barclays response to his complaint didnt address all of his concerns. And hes 
explained that these issues caused him considerable inconvenience and embarrassment.  
DRN-1976568To put things right Mr C wants Barclays to, amongst other things, introduce a free telephone 
service to deal with payment problems of this sort, and to staff it adequately. Hed also like it 
to provide a way he could identify himself to the bank without having to visit a branch in 
person. And feels it should increase its offer of compensation to £500.
Our investigator felt Barclays had responded reasonably to Mr Cs complaint and considered 
its offer of £100 compensation to be fair in the circumstances. 
Mr C didnt accept this view, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr C is dissatisfied with a number of Barclays systems and processes and has 
suggested it needs to make changes to these. As our investigator explained, this service 
doesnt have the power to ask a business to do this - or to amend its staffing levels or the 
contact telephone numbers and customer service arrangements it offers to its customers. 
That would fall under the remit of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Rather, its my role to consider the impact of Barclays actions here on Mr C as an individual. 
And to decide what (if anything) I think Barclays should do to resolve his complaint. For 
clarity  Im not able to consider the impact of Barclays actions on the third party Mr C was 
attempting to make his payment to here either.  
Barclays has explained that it has automated systems in place which stopped Mr Cs 
payments until further security checks could be completed. I appreciate Mr C doesnt feel 
these systems should have stopped his payments. But looking at Barclays terms and 
conditions for personal customers Im satisfied that it is entitled to block a payment where it 
has any security concerns. And I dont think its necessarily unusual for a bank to make 
further investigations into payments made in the circumstances as they were here. 
Mr C processed the first blocked payment shortly before 10pm on the evening of 12 
September 2019. Barclays has shown us evidence that it tried to contact him about this at 
around 10:15am the next morning. I think this was a reasonable timeframe in which to 
contact him about the payment given the time of day it occurred.
Unfortunately Mr C missed Barclays call. And hes told us that when he tried on 2 occasions 
to call back he heard an automated message telling him that he would have to wait more 
than 10 minutes for his call to be answered  which he wasnt willing to do. 
I appreciate that waiting on hold can be frustrating. But again I dont think its unusual for a 
customer to need to wait to speak to a business sometimes, particularly over a weekend as 
was the case here. And as Ive explained its not my role to tell Barclays how to staff its 
contact centres. I can see Mr C feels Barclays indication as to how long he would have to 
wait on hold for was vague. But I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Barclays to 
know the exact length of time he would need to wait for his call to be answered, as it cannot 
be sure how long other calls it answers will take. 
When Mr C did successfully make contact with Barclays it took him through some security 
questions. But Mr Cs answers to these questions werent sufficient to enable it to give him 
access his account. Mr C disputes this and says Barclays hasnt explained why his answers werent satisfactory. 
But having listened to the call he had with Barclays I can hear that he wasnt able to answer 
all of the questions he was asked. And I dont think these questions were unreasonable ones 
for Barclays to put forward to him. So again I dont think Barclays acted unfairly when it 
asked him to take some identification into branch to unblock his account. Whilst I recognise 
the inconvenience caused to Mr C, Barclays has such measures in place to protect 
customers accounts and keep their money safe.
I agree it would have been helpful for the Barclays branch staff to have explained to Mr C 
that his payment had been cancelled and hed need to make it again. And I can appreciate 
the inconvenience it caused him to have to make further contact with it to find out what had 
happened. I can also see that Barclays internal notes about this complaint suggest it feels it 
overcomplicated matters in respect of the block applied to the second payment Mr C made 
on 16 September 2019.  And whilst Im pleased to see this was lifted and Mr Cs payment 
did go through that day, I think its reasonable that these elements of poor service have been 
recognised with an offer of compensation.
Mr C would like Barclays to increase its offer of compensation to £500. Hes cited the fact 
Barclays blocked his account, and explained he doesn't feel it made reasonable attempts to 
contact him to put matters right. But Im satisfied that £100 is a fair amount to reflect the 
elements of poor service Barclays provided here. I havent found that the block itself was 
applied in error, or that Barclays acted unreasonably when it asked Mr C to attend a branch 
to resolve the matter. So whilst Im sorry to disappoint him, I wont be asking it to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint. Mr C should contact Barclays directly if he now wishes to 
take up its offer of £100 compensation.
I can see Mr C is also frustrated that Barclays hasnt provided him with any specific guidance 
as to how he can avoid payments being blocked in the future. But I wouldnt expect a bank to 
disclose detailed information about its security measures to customers, as this is very 
sensitive information.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint as I feel the offer of £100 compensation already made by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC is sufficient to resolve it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman