DRN-3682381
The complaint
Mr W says (through a representative) Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) gave him a line of 
credit which he couldnt afford to repay. Mr W further says this facility put him into a debt 
spiral. 
What happened
Mr W approached Drafty for a running credit facility in November 2017. Mr W was initially 
given a facility with a £1,330 credit limit. Mr Ws credit limit was increased on five occasions 
with his final increase taking his credit limit to £2,200 by September 2019. A statement of 
account letter given to Mr W in March 2022, by Drafty shows the balance on the facility was 
zero. 
Mr W was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to his limit. He was also 
able to borrow further, up to his credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed.  To be 
clear, Mr W was not given a payday loan. 
In Draftys final response letter (FRL) (in March 2022) it explained the information it gathered 
from Mr W before it approved the facility. It concluded given the estimated monthly 
repayment of around £10  this is amount is lower than the amount in the hypothetical credit 
agreement - that Mr W was likely to be able to afford the credit facility. 
Drafty also provided details of the occasions it asked Mr W to check his income and 
expenditure. This showed, in February 2019  when he was next asked to confirm his 
income and expenditure information that his income had increased slightly, and his 
expenditure remained the same. According to Drafty, Mr Ws income and expenditure 
remained the same throughout the remainder of the lending relationship. 
However, Drafty concluded the following , we can see there is a possibility that allowing 
the continued use of the line beyond April 14, 2021 may not have been sustainable in the 
long term. So, we are partially agreeing to Mr. Ws [name removed for anonymisation 
purposes] complaint.
In order to put things right for Mr W Drafty agreed to the following:
To put things right, We will:
Contact the credit reference agencies to remove any negative marks on Mr. Ws 
[name removed] file as a result of using his credit line after April 14, 2021.
We can see that Mr. W [name removed] hasn't paid interest for any draws he made 
after the date from which we are agreeing to uphold Mr. W [name removed] 
complaint (the date set out above). This means that there is no refund of interest to 
be made to Mr. W [name removed].
Unhappy with this response, Mr Ws representative referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ws complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried
out before granting this facility were proportionate and showed Drafty Mr W was likely to be 
able to afford the repayment amounts - based on the hypothetical payment schedule 
outlined on Mr Ws credit agreement. This hypothetical repayment schedule was calculated 
on the full amount of credit available being drawn down and then repaid in 12 monthly 
instalments. 
However, the adjudicator, pointed out that in addition to taking reasonable steps to ensure 
the facility was affordable at the outset, Drafty also had an obligation to monitor Mr Ws use 
of the facility. 
The adjudicator thought, given the amount of time Mr W had spent in debt and that the credit 
limit was further increased in November 2018 to £1,780 that Drafty shouldve made further 
enquires with Mr W to see whether the facility was still affordable for him as well as the credit 
limit increase. 
She didnt think Drafty asking Mr W whether there were any changes to his income and 
expenditure was sufficient  especially as at best this would merely confirm the position in 
relation to what he already owed, rather than what he could now owe as a result of the 
possibility of drawing down extra credit. And so, the checks Drafty carried out werent likely 
to be proportionate. But due to a lack of information from Mr W, she wasnt able to say what 
Drafty may have seen had it carried out better checks and whether these checks wouldve 
altered its decision to increase his credit limit.
However, she did think by 1 March 2019 that Mr W was showing signs that he was 
struggling to repay his facility in a sustainable manner. The adjudicator commented that 
since October 2018 until March 2019 there had been a change in the way Mr W had used 
the facility. 
She said, by March 2019 there was now an established pattern of Mr W making the 
minimum (or close to the minimum) repayment and then drawing down any available credit 
shortly afterwards. In the adjudicators view Mr W was borrowing further in an attempt to 
cover the hole making his payments was leaving in his finances and he most certainly wasnt 
showing an ability to repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time without 
borrowing further. 
So, the adjudicator thought that Drafty ought to have realised that the facility had become 
unsustainable for Mr W. As a result, it ought to have begun the process of withdrawing it at 
this time and offered appropriate forbearance. 
In order to put things right for Mr W the adjudicator recommended (amongst other things) 
that all interest, fees and charges added to the facility from 1 March 2019 be refunded. 
Which is different to the redress which Drafty had proposed in the final response letter. 
Mr Ws representative received a copy of the adjudication, but no further comments or 
information have been provided. 
 
Drafty didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment either. In response it sent an email that 
while Ive read in its entirety, Ive not repeated in full here. For the sake of clarity and 
conciseness, Ive summarised the main points of Draftys response below. 
Drafty confirmed any credit limit increase only occurs after carefully considering the 
customers circumstances. Drafty says that when a limit is increased it considers how the account has been run but also looks at their credit reference record to look for 
signs of financial distress. In Mr Ws case the information Drafty believed he could 
afford the increase in his credit limit in November 2018.
During the time Mr W held the facility, Drafty asked him about whether there was any 
change to his income and expenditure. Mr W suggested that his income had 
increased while his outgoings remained the same during the lending relationship. 
Drafty pointed out that between November 2018 to March 2019 Mr W only made 
drawdowns on the account on two occasions  which isnt enough after nearly 18 
months of borrowing to suggest any financial difficulties were down to the Drafty 
facility. 
Drafty doesnt consider a revolving line of credit, which was only used twice in nearly 
six months is evidence of unreasonable or unsustainable lending. 
Mr W had managed and maintained all his payments up to this point in time. 
Mr W hadnt told Drafty that he was having financial problems. 
After March 2019, Mr W had three further drawdowns which he repaid in periods of 
four, three and 12 months. In Draftys view  this isnt a pattern of repayment which 
wouldve led it to conclude that he was in financial difficulties. 
Drafty says the application of the CONC (Consumer Credit Sourcebook Rules) 7 isnt 
appropriate in the circumstances. As these rules only apply where the customer is in 
arrears or default and / or seeks assistance due to financial difficulties. Which doesnt 
apply in Mr Ws case. 
Drafty doesnt know whether at any point Mr W was truly in any financial difficulties. 
This is important, because Drafty says that by putting a customer on a repayment 
plan (for example) would have implications for their credit file because Drafty would 
be obliged to report the adverse credit file information. 
Drafty says, it didnt have Mr Ws permission to report adverse information to the 
credit reference agencies and if it had done so, and recorded information this 
wouldnt be in his best interest to place him in a situation where it was updating his 
credit file with adverse information. Finally, Drafty wouldnt put someone on a 
repayment plan where there was no evidence that they were having financial 
difficulties. 
In addition, Drafty wouldnt have known what amount of a repayment plan wouldve 
been affordable for Mr W. 
The redress proposed by the adjudicator wouldve meant that Drafty would need to 
take unilateral decision to impede his credit file. 
The adjudicator has concluded that any drawdowns after 1 March 2019 should be 
interest free but also any drawdowns taken before that date should now also become 
interest free. It would be unfair and unreasonable to ask for a refund on drawdowns 
that are considered to be legitimate and fair. 
But Drafty did make reference to the FRL and it concluded that from April 2021 it 
ought to have taken some action as the facility may have been unsustainable for 
Mr W. 
Draftys view is that the outcome reached in the FRL is fair and reasonable. 
In short, Draftys response is best summed up by what it says below;
Short-term fluctuations in line usage and an absence of a rapid repeat pattern of 
draws do not, we contend, signal unsustainability. We request, therefore, that our 
original view of the date at which the point of unsustainability was reached be 
maintained.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
In practice, all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. Ive kept all of this in 
mind when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to before agreeing to Mr Ws 
Drafty facility. 
As explained, Mr W was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall, I think that this 
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand 
whether Mr W would be able to both service and then repay his facility within a reasonable 
period of time. Draft also needed to monitor Mr Ws repayment record for any sign that he 
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened when Drafty approved the facility
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I do think Draftys checks before
providing this facility to Mr W were proportionate taking all of the circumstances into account.
As explained, Mr W wasnt given a payday loan where he had to repay all of what he
borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there
was an expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a
reasonable period of time. CONC doesnt set out what a reasonable period (CONC 
5.3.1(8)(a)) of time is. And its important to note that a reasonable period of time will always 
be dependent on the circumstances of the individual case.
Mr W was granted a facility with a £1,330 limit. Although a reasonable period of time isnt set 
out in the rules, Mr Ws credit agreement included a hypothetical repayment schedule should 
Mr W have drawn down the maximum amount available to him and repaid what he owed 
over 12 months. This hypothetical schedule was included to illustrate the potential costs of 
the facility. And given it was included on Mr Ws credit agreement, I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect any affordability assessment carried out to have reasonably assessed 
whether Mr W would be able to make the payments on the schedule.
Had Mr W drawn down the full amount available to him and repaid it over 12 months, hed 
have to repay Drafty a total of £1,814.69 meaning a total monthly repayment of around 
£151.22.  
So, bearing in mind everything Ive said, I think its fair and reasonable to have expected 
Drafty to have carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to understand whether Mr W 
could make monthly repayments of around £151 per month.Drafty says it agreed to Mr Ws application after hed provided details of his monthly
income and expenditure and it also carried out a credit check. Drafty says the information it 
gathered showed that Mr W would be able to comfortably make the payments required to 
repay any funds advanced within a reasonable period of time. I can only assume, given what 
the final response letter says that Drafty considered this payment to be around £10 per 
month. However, whether the payment of £151 or £10 is considered, it says that Mr W 
wouldve likely have been able to repay the facility. 
The information provided shows Mr W declared his income to be £1,900 per month and he 
declared monthly outgoings of £1,150. This left Mr W with disposable income of just over 
£750 per month to service and repay the facility. 
Drafty also carried out a credit check before the facility was granted, and it has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results. At the time it knew that Mr W had a 
total of nine active credit accounts, with debts on these accounts of around £11,800. It was 
also aware that Mr W was repaying a mortgage. 
However, the credit search results showed Drafty that Mr W didnt have defaulted accounts 
and didnt have any delinquent accounts either. So, in my view the credit search didnt show 
Mr W was having difficulty repaying his existing credit and I dont think that the results would 
have been a concern for Drafty. And the payments that are likely to have been required to 
repay what Mr W owed, didnt obviously contradict Mr Ws declaration of his outgoings 
either. So overall I dont think the results of the searches ought to have prompted Drafty to 
have carried out further checks before granting the facility. 
Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayment, the questions Drafty
asked Mr W, this was Mr Ws first facility as well as the credit search results, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Drafty to relied on the information which showed the facility to be 
affordable to him. 
I accept Mr Ws actual financial position may not have been reflected either in the
information provided, or the information Drafty obtained. But Drafty could only make its
decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
At this stage of the lending relationship between the parties, I dont think proportionate 
checks wouldve extended into Drafty asking Mr W to evidence what he was declaring, or it 
requesting his bank statements. So overall I dont think that Drafty treated Mr W unfairly or 
unreasonably when it initially provided his with an open-ended credit facility in 
November 2017.
Increasing Mr Ws credit limit in 2018
As Ive explained above, I think it was reasonable for Drafty to have approved the facility. But 
I can see, from the statement of accounts that Drafty did increase Mr Ws credit limit on a 
number of occasions. 
In addition to thinking about proportionate checks when the facility was approved, Ive gone 
onto consider whether it was reasonable for Drafty to have increased Mr Ws credit limit. 
Mr Ws credit limit was first increased in March 2018 to £1,530 and then shortly afterward in 
July 2018 it was increased again, taking the limit to £1,630. These were small increases, 
whether individual or cumulatively. But in any event, I dont think that there was anything to 
indicate that these increases were unaffordable for Mr W. However, there was then a further increase to the credit limit in November 2018, which was 
around a year after Mr W was granted the facility to £1,780 - so about £400 more than what 
he initially started with. In my view, the cumulative effect of the increases that had occurred 
within the last year ought to have led Drafty to carry out further checks. 
The statement produced on 13 November 2018, shows that Mr W had a balance of £1,697  
which was £30 above his credit limit although that wouldve been inclusive of the interest. 
However, Drafty says at this time he only had £10.21 of his available credit left. So Drafty, 
was on notice, that after having the facility for a year, increasing the credit limit on two other 
occasions and making his minimum payment each month, Mr W only had £10.21 left 
towards his credit limit available. 
Indeed, after a year, due to the increase in the credit limit Mr W actually owed more to Drafty 
than when he had started. According to the running statement of account, in that year (from 
November 2018  November 2019) Mr W had borrowed a total of £2,000 and had made 
repayments of almost £1,200 yet he still owed Drafty nearly £1,700  almost his entire credit 
limit. To me, it doesnt seem like Mr W was making any headway in to repaying his facility, in 
fact it just looks like he was getting further into debt.  
When Drafty increased the credit limit again, it doesnt seem to have carried out any further 
checks. It didnt ask Mr W to re-confirm that his income and expenditure information was 
correct. Although given what Ive said above about the need to only carry out a further 
assessment, where a lender is significantly increasing the amount of credit, its possible that 
Drafty didnt carry out further checks because it didnt consider the amount of the limit 
increases constituted significantly increasing the amount of credit.
In addition, Drafty has supplied its re-assessment data to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
I can see, at the end of October 2018, no assessment was carried out - and for 
November 2018 Drafty has noted Assessed and Increased (sic) offered. It seems, Drafty 
carried out some sort of credit check, but beyond the sentence above, no further results 
have been provided, which means I dont know exactly what was assessed and what the 
results of that assessment were, beyond knowing that the credit limit was increased. 
However, given the cumulative effect of the increases by this point, I do think that there is a 
reasonable argument for saying that Drafty had significantly increased the amount of credit 
from the last time it carried out an affordability assessment. So, Im satisfied that Drafty 
needed to check whether Mr W was in a position to repay £1,780 within a reasonable period 
of time before agreeing to increase his credit limit. The evidence Drafty has provided me with 
hasnt satisfied me that it did do this here.
But, in any event, I am not able to make a finding on whether proportionate checks wouldve 
led Drafty to decline this credit limit offer. I say this because, Mr W hasnt provided us with a 
copy of his credit file, bank statements or any other documentation which may have shown 
what his financial position was like at the time. 
As this is the case, I dont have enough to be able to fairly conclude that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have prevented Drafty from increasing Mr Ws credit limit in 
November 2018. 
Why I think Drafty shouldnt have provided further funds after 1 March 2019
Although I dont think Drafty did anything wrong when initially providing the facility (or the 
credit limit increases up to this point in time), that wasnt the end of its obligations to Mr W. As Ive said above, when the facility was approved, Drafty was regulated by the FCA and it 
issued guidance on this type of lending and what it says should be expected from lenders 
when granting these types of facilities. 
Within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R says:
(1) A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
Underneath this, the FCA, notes section 6.2 of the Office of Fair-Trading Irresponsible 
Lending Guidance. For clarity and completeness, Ive included this section below;
6.2 Failing to monitor a borrower's repayment record.
The OFT considers that creditors should take appropriate action, including notifying 
the borrower of the potential risk of an escalating debt, and signposting the borrower 
to not-for-profit providers of free independent debt advice, when/if there are signs of 
apparent/possible repayment difficulties  for example, a borrower failing to make 
minimum required payments or making a number of consecutive small/minimum 
repayments or a borrower seeking to make repayments on a credit card account 
using another credit card
So, its clear, in my mind, from the regulations that Drafty had a responsibility to monitor how 
Mr W was using his facility and it was required, to step appropriate action  if there were 
either signs of payment difficulties or possible payment difficulties. Its also worth saying at 
this point that CONC 1.3 provides a non-exhaustive list of some indicators, which when 
present in a consumers circumstances, could be suggestive of potential financial difficulties. 
In practice, CONC 6.7.2(1)R meant Drafty needed to be mindful of Mr Ws repayment record 
and how he used the facility and step in if Drafty if there were signs of actual financial 
difficulties or possible repayment difficulties. CONC 6.7.3 goes on to say;
The action referred to in CONC 6.7.2 R should generally include:
(1) notifying the customer of the risk of escalating debt, additional interest or charges 
and of potential financial difficulties; and
[Note: paragraph 6.16 of ILG]
(2) providing contact details for not-for-profit debt advice bodies.
[Note: paragraph 6.2 (box) of ILG]; or
(3) where a Debt Respite moratorium is in effect for the customers debt for the 
purposes of CONC 6.7.2R, complying with its obligations pursuant to the moratorium, 
with respect to that moratorium debt.
Then, CONC 6.7.3 explains what help should generally be provided by Drafty but again, this 
isnt an exhaustive list. Ive considered all of this, along with how Mr W had used and repaid 
the facility. Ive kept this in mind when looking at the way Mr W used the facility, and then 
what if anything Drafty ought to have done to step in and help. 
Our adjudicator thought Drafty shouldve stepped in and taken action in by 1 March 2019. By 
this point, our adjudicator thought that Mr Ws borrowing history showed he was potentially 
reliant on the facility and so it had become demonstrably unsustainable for him. Ive considered that Drafty, in February 2019, asked Mr W about his income and 
expenditure. At this point, Mr W had declared his income was now £2,500 per month  so a 
slight increase since he was initially granted the facility. 
Mr W also declared that his monthly outgoings remained the same, as when the facility was 
granted. Im not convinced that it was plausible for Drafty to rely on this given Mr Ws initial 
declaration was made before he was indebted to Drafty, and the later declaration was made 
when he had commitments to Drafty each month. However, as Mr W hasnt provided 
anything further, I cant make a finding on his financial position at the time. 
But that isnt he end of the matter, Drafty needed to make sure the facility remained 
sustainable for Mr W. Overall, taking account, the time in debt, what Drafty knew (or didnt 
know about Mr W) and how he managed his repayments including the relationship between 
payments and the drawdowns, I have come to the conclusion that there were signs, by 
March 2019 that Mr Ws facility was likely unsustainable for him and Drafty shouldve 
stepped in and have taken appropriate steps. 
Following the credit limit increase in November 2018, Mr W seems to have quickly drawn 
down all the available credit that was on offer to him - £300.  And doing so, meant that he 
was right at the top of his credit limit again. So, 12 months into the open ended facility, he 
now actually owed Drafty more than when he started  courtesy of the increased credit limit. 
Between November 2018 and March 2019, Ive seen that Mr W continued to make the 
minimum payments due under the agreement but at times, he continued to draw back down 
to the facility limit. 
By March 2019 Mr Ws credit limit was now £1,780 his outstanding balance due to Drafty 
was £1,867  although this was above the credit limit, he was due to make his minimum 
payment, and by doing so it wouldve brought the account back under the limit. 
Importantly, he only had 49 pence of available credit to drawdown. This is because, the 
months he had made just the minimum payment in had reduced his balance to the extent 
that he was able to drawdown a further £70 taking him basically back up to the limit. 
So, some 15 months after approving the credit facility, Mr W still owed the maximum amount 
that he could  as he was at his limit. This is despite, making just the minimum payment 
each month. By now, he had drawn down in the time of the facility £2,300 made payments of 
nearly £1,500  yet dispute this Mr W still owed nearly £1,900. 
In short, Mr W had been given an open ended credit facility, had held it for 15 months and 
while I accept that Mr W was making the minimum repayments each month (and hadnt 
missed any payments) he continued to draw on the facility, that meant after making modest 
inroads of up to nearly £300 of his limit he would then come back for further credit, taking 
him back up to the credit limit. 
And in this case, given by March 2019 he was back to within 49 pence of the credit limit. I do 
think by now, Drafty ought to have realised that Mr W wasnt demonstrating an ability to 
repay the facility over a reasonable period of time (certainly in line with the hypothetical 
repayment schedule provided on the initial agreement), and instead was just servicing the 
debt in order to hold borrowed funds for a protracted period, occasionally topping up back up 
to his credit limit. Thinking about that, Drafty ought to and needed to have taken some action 
(or appropriate steps) because it was clear, in my mind, that the facility had become 
unsustainable for him. So Drafty ought reasonably to have realised that not only was it likely that any future limit 
increases were unaffordable for Mr W, but that his repayment record suggested that he 
couldnt repay the credit that he had already.
Drafty, ought to have reasonably concluded that the facility was now unstainable, and it 
needed to have taken appropriate steps. CONC 6.7.3 gave some guidance to Drafty as to 
some of the actions that it may have wanted to take to take to assist Mr W. There is no 
evidence from what Ive seen that suggests that it carried out any of these suggestions. 
But, I dont think I need to speculate here. There were a number of options available to 
Drafty has suggested that it couldnt just put Mr W on a repayment plan and by doing so, it 
wouldnt have had Mr Ws permission to record such a plan (or any other adverse 
information) with the credit reference agencies. 
Drafty, realising the facility was unsustainable, had to do something I dont think it is 
reasonable to argue that it couldnt do anything, Ive thought about what else may be 
available to it. Whatever, Drafty couldve chosen to do it had to link back to the Principles of 
Business under PRIN 2.1.1(6) which says;
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
If treating a customer fairly due to an unsustainable facility  which is what Ive concluded 
here  then I think its illogical to consider that Drafty couldnt offer any help at all because for 
example it was concerned about reporting information to Mr Ws credit file. I say this 
especially as there isnt anything to suggest that Drafty even contacted Mr W about his 
repayment record at this time. 
Im also not persuaded by Draftys argument that it didnt take action because it didnt want 
to impact Mr Ws credit file. This argument ignores that there isnt anything within CONC 
which requires a lender to record adverse information before assisting a customer who is 
struggling financially. This is a position that lenders such as Drafty have chosen to adopt. 
And if Drafty was concerned about Mr Ws credit file it could have taken action - such as 
providing the facility interest free for an extended period and allowing him to repay it 
gradually.  
All Draftys actions here were likely to result in, was Mr W paying high amounts of interest 
and charges (relative to the amount he owed) for the privilege of being allowed to continue 
holding, what his repayment record suggests was a debt he couldnt afford to repay. Draftys 
failure to take action in circumstances where Mr W couldnt afford to repay the facility meant 
that he was always likely to pay more in fees and in any event end up with adverse 
information on his credit file. So Draftys actions in allowing Mr W to continue using his 
facility and incurring further charges, when it ought to have known he was unlikely to have 
been able to afford to, worsened Mr Ws problem rather than helped him.
Ultimately, I dont think I need to speculate here about the actions Drafty may or may not 
have taken. There were a range of options which Drafty could have taken. But seeing as 
none of these were taken and Im satisfied that action ought to have been taken so Ive 
considered what Drafty ought to fairly and reasonably do to put things right sometime after 
the event. And the proposed redress is the clearest and fairest way of doing this.
In any event, whats most important here is that I dont think its fair and reasonable for a 
lender to allow a customer to continue using a facility that has become demonstrably 
unsustainable simply to avoid putting adverse information on their credit file or discussing 
with them a way forward. Therefore, Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for 
Mr W while explaining why all the interest charged after the 1 March 2019 needs to be 
refunded. 
Putting things right
As I have explained, there were a number of options which Drafty could have taken to help 
Mr W repay his facility. I have to decide how to fairly and reasonably put things right 
sometime after the event. Ive already explained that by March 2019 Drafty ought to have 
realised that not only was any further borrowing unaffordable but that Mr W was struggling to 
repay what he already owed.
I think the easiest and most effective way for Drafty to have addressed this at the time would 
have been for it to suspend the interest, fees and charges being applied to Mr Ws account 
and allow him to repay the balance. As Ive not been provided with any other reasonable 
alternative to this course of action by Drafty, Im satisfied that Drafty should now place Mr W 
in the position that he would now be in had it taken this action at the time.
So Drafty should remove all the interest, fees and charges it added to the account after 
March 2019 to reflect the fact that the facility was unsustainable for Mr W and it ought to 
have taken corrective steps in relation to this. 
In order to put things right Drafty should do the following: 
Rework Mr Ws credit facility to ensure that all interest, fees and charges added to 
the facility from March 2019 are removed, to reflect the fact that Mr B was already in 
a position where the facility was unsustainable for him.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the facility once these adjustments have been 
made Drafty should contact Mr W to arrange suitable repayment plans, 
Mr W is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Drafty to reach a 
suitable agreement for this. If Drafty considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Mr Ws credit file, it should backdate this to March 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance on Mr Bs credit facility, then any extra should be treated as 
overpayments and paid to Mr B along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments 
from the date they were made until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balances 
remain after all adjustments have been made, then Drafty should remove any 
adverse information from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right for Mr W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Robert WalkerOmbudsman