DRN-4417542
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a conditional sale agreement 
(agreement) with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn (Moneybarn).
What happened
In November 2022 Mr B entered into an agreement with Moneybarn for a used car costing 
£9,275. Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr B undertook to 
make a deposit payment of £98 followed by 59 monthly payments of £288.03 - making a 
total sum repayable of £17,091.77 at an APR of 31.9%.
In May 2023 Mr B complained to Moneybarn about the quality of the car he had acquired 
and to say it had developed a number of faults.
In July 2023 Mr B referred his complaint to our service.
In August 2023 a company that I will call A inspected, at Moneybarns request, Mr Bs car. 
It concluded that although there were faults with the car these werent likely to have been 
present or developing at the time of acquisition.
In August 2023 Moneybarn issued Mr B with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of 
this FRL Moneybarn said it wasnt persuaded the car had faults, or was developing faults, at 
the time of acquisition and as a result it wasnt upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than it may merit. 
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I will, however, refer to those crucial aspects 
which impact my decision.
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations, any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr B acquired a car under a conditional sale 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when acquired. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Moneybarn are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the cars history.
 
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was acquired, unless Moneybarn can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr B to show it was present when 
the car was acquired. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr B acquired it, and this made the car of  
unsatisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right.
Now I dont dispute that Mr B has had repairs undertaken on the car at his own cost and that 
the car is currently off the road due to one or more faults with it and because it doesnt have 
a current and valid MOT test certificate. But this doesnt mean that Moneybarn is obliged to 
accept rejection of the car, pay for any further repairs that might be needed or refund Mr B 
the costs he has incurred in having one or more repairs undertaken on the car at his own 
volition.
Mr B acquired a used car that was approximately seven years old and which had travelled 
over 71,000 miles. A car of this age and mileage wouldnt be expected to be in the same 
condition as a brand new car, which would have cost considerably more than the price Mr B 
paid. Considering the age and mileage here it wouldnt be unreasonable to expect the car to 
be showing some signs of wear and tear. 
Furthermore at the time of Mr B contacting Moneybarn in May 2023 to complain about the 
quality of the car it was approximately six months older and Mr B had been able to travel 
3,500 miles in it.
This, together with the nature of the faults Mr B has complained about, As inspection report, 
the lack of any report from Mr B suggesting the faults with the car were present or 
developing at the time of acquisition and that the car passed an MOT test in May 2022 with 
no advisories (other than in respect of tyre tread depth) Im satisfied, on the balance of 
probabilities, Mr B didnt acquire a car in November 2022 that was of unsatisfactory quality.For the sake of completeness I would add that Ive not discounted Mr Bs submission that he 
had to have repairs undertaken on the car at his own cost, which may or may not have been 
successful, before he complained to Moneybarn in May 2023. But as Moneybarn pointed out 
under cover of its FRL there is no way now of establishing whether these repairs were 
required as a result of the car being of unsatisfactory quality when acquired by Mr B so it 
wouldnt be fair for me to direct Moneybarn to refund Mr B the cost of these repairs.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. However, I would remind Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited trading as Moneybarn of its obligation to treat Mr B  if he is in financial difficulties  
fairly and with due consideration and forbearance going forward.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman