DRN-2779890
The complaint
Mr F complains Link Financial Outsourcing Limited havent provided enough information to 
prove hes responsible for a debt on a credit card theyre asking him to repay.
What happened
Mr F said he received a letter from Link in November 2019 saying he had an outstanding 
debt on a credit card taken out in 2005 with a lender. He was told his account was in default 
and this had been recorded on his credit file. Mr F says he was unaware of this debt before 
Links letter, so asked them to prove the debt was his. Mr F was given statements but with 
no identifying details to show the debt was his, so he complained about this.
Link replied saying Mr F got in touch saying he had no knowledge of this debt. They said 
following this they got in touch with the lender and got a copy of the original credit card 
application form  which they provided to Mr F along with some statements of the account. 
Link added if Mr F wasnt happy with this information hed need to speak to the original 
lender.
Mr F didnt accept this and asked us to look into things. He said he was concerned about the 
default being applied as he had no notice of this happening  and said had he known about 
it sooner then hed have paid off the debt. He was also unhappy about how long Link had 
taken to reply to his complaint. 
One of our investigators considered things and she found based on the information provided 
Link had shown Mr F was liable for the debt. She also explained we couldnt consider Mr Fs 
concerns about how Link handled his complaint as thats not a regulated activity. And she 
said any concerns about the default would need to be discussed with the original lender.
Mr F said he still wasnt entirely happy with the level of evidence initially provided, so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain that Im not considering whether the debt is legitimately Mr Fs. 
Im only considering whether Link have provided enough information to have a reasonable 
expectation the debt is his and ask him for repayment of it. 
From the information I have it seems another company took over this debt on 
15 October 2019 and sent their Notice of Assignment to Mr F on 17 October 2019  
explaining theyd asked Link to manage the account. Link have also provided a letter from 
the original lender addressed to Mr F to say theyd assigned their interest in the account to 
the new company. Link have also provided Mr F and our service with an application form, 
and some statements of the account history. And Links internal notes show the debt has 
since been paid off.
So, to decide whether Im satisfied Link have a reasonable expectation the debt is his and 
are acting fairly in asking him to repay it Ive thought about what all of this information shows.
The credit card application form has Mr Fs personal details in it, including his name, address 
at the time and his date of birth. And some of the statements provided show Mr Fs name 
and address as well.
During the complaint Mr F has also accepted he had a card with the original lender, but says 
he thought itd been paid off. Given the credit card was originally taken out in 2005, I can see 
why its possible Mr F may have forgotten about the account.
But, as I mentioned above, Im looking to see whether Link have enough information to be 
able to reasonably ask him to repay the debt. As Mr F has confirmed he had a credit card 
with the same lender, and the details provided on the evidence given to us match his details 
 I think its fair to say Link acted fairly in asking him to repay the debt. And, as I said above, 
Ive noted hes now paid it off.
I do understand Mr Fs concerns about the information initially provided to him. But 
generally, debt collectors will only get further information when asked  as theyre not often 
provided all of the paperwork regarding any lending when taking over the account. I can see 
Link did ask for this information promptly upon Mr F getting in touch. And, while some of the 
information could have been more detailed, Link passed on what they were given by the 
lender.
 
During the course of the complaint Mr F has made it clear hes not happy he didnt know 
about the default being applied to his account  and says hed have paid off the debt if hed 
known about it. Hes also suggested the debt may not be his previously. These issues would 
be the responsibility of the lender as it doesnt appear Link were involved  so Mr F may 
wish to raise his concerns with them which I understand hes in the process of doing.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman