DRN-3783561
The complaint
Mr R complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) unreasonably delayed an ISA 
transfer. Mr R also complains about the service provided.
What happened
Mr R had an ISA with NS&I. In early December 2021 NS&I received a transfer request from 
another ISA provider Ill call S. NS&I says it processed the request and sent a cheque with 
Mr Rs ISA funds to S. But when S received and deposited a cheque from NS&I it was 
returned unpaid. 
Further cheques were sent to S but returned unpaid when deposited. A final cheque was 
issued and successfully deposited by S towards the end of January 2022. 
Mr R complained about the delay and way NS&I had handled his transfer. NS&I sent Mr R a 
final response but didnt agree its actions had caused the cheques to go unpaid. NS&I 
offered Mr R £40 to resolve his complaint. 
Mr R referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Within its 
case submission, NS&I made an offer to resolve Mr Rs complaint. NS&I offered to increase 
the compensation offered to £100 for the inconvenience caused and a pay £192.08 in 
interest. Our investigator thought NS&Is offer was fair, but Mr R asked to appeal. Mr R said 
he didnt agree the level of compensation fairly reflected the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NS&I accepts it couldve dealt with Mr Rs ISA transfer request more efficiently from 11 
January 2022. The previous day, NS&I had issued a new cheque and also spoken with Mr R 
about the delays. NS&I spoke with S but has told us it failed to mention a previously issued 
cheque. As a result, another cheque was issued causing further delays. 
Mr R has asked for a more detailed explanation as to why cheques NS&I sent werent paid. 
As our investigator has said, its not entirely clear. I appreciate thats not a satisfactory 
answer. But it appears to me that cheques NS&I sent werent received as quickly as 
expected by S. That led to replacement cheques being issued before the previously sent 
cheques were received. When S attempted to deposit cancelled cheques they were returned 
unpaid. From the information Ive seen, there appears to have been some confusion 
between NS&I and S about active and cancelled cheques and that ultimately delayed the 
transfer process. I havent seen anything that points to an individual mistake that caused the 
delays.  
I agree with Mr R that NS&I couldve handled his transfer more efficiently. And I can see he 
was very involved with the transfer process. Mr R has given us a detailed timeline of his 
contact with NS&I. Mr R has told us about various occasions when he wasnt called back as 
promised and that he feels NS&I failed to get to grips with his concerns about his savings 
and complaint in general. I agree with Mr R that the service provided was poor at times and I 
dont doubt what hes told us. I can see how distressing Mr R found the transfer process and 
delays and have taken that into account when deciding how to fairly resolve his complaint. 
We try to ensure theres no loss to a consumer due to a delay or mistake by a business. In 
this case, Im aware S agreed to backdate the interest to cover the delay. So whilst the delay 
was clearly frustrating, Mr R received the correct level of interest from S meaning theres no 
clear loss. And NS&I offered to pay Mr R 8% interest between 11 January 2022 and 28 
January 2022, totalling £192.08. I think its fair to say that rate of interest used is significantly 
higher than the original NS&I interest rate Mr R received. And it goes beyond what I couldve 
awarded, having looked at the details of Mr Rs complaint. 
NS&I also offered Mr R £100 to reflect the level of distress and inconvenience caused. 
Taking the total compensation offered into account, Im satisfied NS&Is offer to pay Mr R 
£100 plus £192.08 in interest is a fair and reasonable way to resolve his complaint. Im sorry 
to disappoint Mr R but I havent found grounds to increase the compensation or tell NS&I to 
do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that National Savings and Investments has already made an offer to resolve 
Mr Rs complaint that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman