DRN-1385799
The complaint
Mr S makes a number of complaints about Hoist Finance UK Limited following the sale of a 
debt to it. Mr S is represented by a business I will call L.
What happened
Mr S says Hoist has failed to provide either him or his representative information he would 
like to see about the sale of his debt from a business I will call B to Hoist. He says there 
were incorrect interest rates and amounts applied to the debt and the bank has failed to 
provide full disclosure of what took place and failed to respond. Mr S says a loan has been 
assigned which may be fraudulent and there was breach of data protection rules.
Hoist says it bought a credit card debt from B in September 2018 and says it doesnt have a 
request for information about the debt from either Mr S or L. It says Mr S should contact B if 
he has a complaint about the debt or the charges applied to it.
The complaint was brought to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it likely any request for information by Mr S was made to B and so any complaints 
ought to be directed to it and not Hoist. The investigator didnt think it our role to punish a 
business for a data protection breach and didnt think there was any evidence Mr S had 
been treated unfairly by Hoist.
L on behalf of Mr S says the loan was fraudulent and says we cant ignore the regulatory 
position or the law and says Hoist hasnt complied with the law and so the loan is 
unenforceable.
The complaint was referred to me in June 2020 and I asked Mr S and L for further 
information. In summary I asked why they referred to a loan when the debt appeared to be a 
credit card debt. I also asked for more detail around the allegation of fraud and whether it 
was it reported to the police. I also asked for a copy of the letter Hoist is said to have ignored 
and asked L to explain in simple terms what this complaint was about and against which 
party was the complaint against  Hoist or B.
L has replied and asked for information about what we do and do not have but has not 
answered my questions and says this complaint ought to be paused. But I now have to make 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate that L has asked that we pause this complaint, but Im satisfied that I asked for 
the information in June 2020 and have made a number of requests for information about the 
questions I raised. I think a reasonable time period has been allowed, even allowing for 
inevitable delays and issues due to the current situation. And I dont think it fair and 
reasonable to allow this complaint to be paused any longer to answer what I think are 
straightforward questions. Thats in keeping with this services role as a quick and informal 
dispute resolution service and my role  which is to come to a decision based on the 
evidence, I feel I need to do so. Here Im satisfied that I have sufficient evidence to reach a 
decision and that L on behalf of Mr S has had sufficient time to make further representations.
I have looked at Hoists records and Im satisfied there is no record of any request by Mr S or 
L for information about the debt and so it follows Im satisfied that Hoist hasnt ignored any 
requests for information. I asked Mr S and L for a copy of the request for information letter 
and I would reasonably have expected them to have provided a copy, or at least had more 
information about this, if it was sent to Hoist. Having looked at the nature of the complaint I 
think it more likely that any request for information about the debt would have been made to 
B and not Hoist in any event and B would have been better placed to have answered any 
questions.
Im satisfied that Hoist bought a credit card debt and I dont know why L has said it was a 
loan. And I dont think L or Mr S has explained why they say there has been a fraud or by 
whom. In any event it would be for a court to decide if a business acted fraudulently, not us 
and for a court to decide if Hoist hadnt complied with the law. But even taking these points 
into account, I havent seen anything to suggest that Hoist is acting unfairly here by asking 
Mr S to repay this debt as it is.
Overall, I find Hoist has tried fairly to deal with Mr Ss complaint. But I dont think he has 
been clear about what his complaint is about or against whom it is made. There does seem 
to be the suggestion here that Hoist shouldnt be asking Mr S to repay what he borrowed 
from B here. But Hoist was passed a debt by B and was asked to collect it. I havent seen 
any reason that it wouldnt be fair for Hoist to have then done this here. I hope Mr S 
appreciates what our role is and that we are not either Hoists or Bs regulator and so we 
cant punish a business.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman