DRN-4420520
The complaint
Mr D has complained about a credit card Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco 
Bank) provided to him.
He says the credit card was irresponsibly provided as it should have been clear from his 
credit file that any lending was inappropriate.
What happened
Tesco Bank provided Mr D with a credit card with an initial limit of £250 in May 2023. Mr D 
wasnt provided with any credit limit increases.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr D and Tesco Bank had told us. And he thought 
Tesco Bank hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly in relation to providing the 
credit card. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint be upheld.
Mr D disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ds complaint. Having carefully 
considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why in a little 
more detail.
Tesco Bank needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Tesco Bank needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr 
D could afford to repay any credit it provided.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Tesco Bank says it agreed to Mr Ds application after it obtained information on his income 
and carried out a credit search. And the information obtained indicated that Mr D would be 
able to make the low monthly repayment due on this credit card.
On the other hand Mr D says that he shouldnt have been lent to under any circumstances.
Ive considered what the parties have said. 
Its clear that Tesco obtained some information before making its lending decision. And what 
is important to note is that Mr D was provided with a revolving credit facility rather than a 
loan. This means that Tesco Bank was required to understand whether a credit limit of £250 
could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than in one go. A credit limit of 
£250 required small monthly payments in order to clear the full amount owed within a 
reasonable period of time.
Furthermore, Ive seen records of the information Tesco Bank obtained from Mr D about his 
income and that was on the credit search carried out. And this information doesnt indicate to 
me that Tesco Bank ought to have realised that Mr D didnt have the funds to make the low 
monthly payment that would be required for this credit card.
Mr D says that Tesco Bank recorded him as being employed in a managerial capacity in 
circumstances where he has never held a managerial role. I dont know what happened 
here. Its possible Mr D declared he was a manager, or its possible that there was some 
kind of error in terms of transferring the information that had already been gathered by the 
company Mr D used to search for a credit card.
Either way, given the low amount being lent here and the neither the credit searches Tesco 
Bank carried out or the credit file Mr D has provided showing over-indebtedness, I dont think 
that Tesco Bank needed to further verify what was in the information it had before lending.
I accept that Mr D says that his actual circumstances at the time were worse than what the 
information Tesco Bank obtained showed. Im sorry that to hear that Mr D has been unwell 
and that he has been unable to work because of this. That said, Tesco Bank did not know 
about this. There wasnt anything in the application provided to indicate this. And, in any
event, Tesco Bank didnt have the authority or consent to obtain medical records on Mr D.
Furthermore, in my view, there wasnt anything immediately obvious in the information that 
Tesco Bank had, including Mr Ds existing indebtedness bearing in mind his declared 
income, which meant it shouldve asked Mr D to provide supporting evidence, such as bank 
statements, before providing him with a credit card in this instance.
So overall while I can understand Mr Ds sentiments and Im sorry to hear about his 
situation, I dont think that Tesco Bank treated Mr D unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his credit card. It carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on the 
information provided which suggested that the credit card was affordable.
Consequently Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing 
for Mr D. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel 
his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman