DRN-3349858
The complaint
Ms G complains that ReAssure Limited failed to transfer one of her pension plans to another 
provider in a timely manner.
What happened
Ms G held two almost identical (save for their values) pension plans with ReAssure. On 
11 November 2020 ReAssure received a request from another provider, via the Origo 
Options automated system, for the transfer of the two pension plans.
ReAssure actioned the transfer of one of the plans almost immediately  it issued a 
confirmation of its completion on 13 November. But the transfer of the other plan was 
delayed. Ms G first queried that delay on 18 November and ReAssure advised her that the 
transfer had been delayed so ReAssure could confirm that Ms G was aware an exit penalty 
would apply to her plan.
Over the next few days it seems that Ms G continued to chase ReAssure for further 
information, and promised call backs failed to be made. It wasnt until 25 November that 
ReAssure confirmed to Ms G that the transfer of the second plan had been completed. But it 
told her that, in line with its normal approach, the value of the transfer would be calculated as 
at 11 November  the day after the initial instruction had been received.
Ms G complained to ReAssure about the delay and the value it had used for the transfer. 
ReAssure explained that, although the two transfers appeared to have been treated 
differently, they had both completed within the normal ten-day processing period. So it didnt 
agree with Ms Gs complaint.
Ms Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He noted that there was 
no apparent reason why the two transfers had been treated differently. And he thought it 
likely that the main reason the second transfer was completed within the ten-day period was 
because of Ms Gs chasing. He didnt think that the number of calls Ms G needed to make, 
and the failures by ReAssure to return those calls, represented good customer service. He 
thought that the delay to the transfer had meant Ms G had missed out on some investment 
growth. So he asked ReAssure to pay Ms G some compensation, together with an additional 
payment for the trouble and upset shed been caused.
ReAssure didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Ms G accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Ms G and by ReAssure. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
In June 2018, a discussion document was produced by the Transfers and Re-registration 
Industry Group (TRIG). The group was formed to review current transfer and reregistration 
processes, and comprised of ten participating trade bodies and their nominated member 
Representatives. ReAssure is a member of one of the trade bodies. That document 
suggested that each stage of the transfer process should complete within two working days. 
So, in the case of Ms Gs transfer, it might be reasonable to expect ReAssure to have 
completed its processing within those two days.
ReAssure has said that its internal processing target is to complete transfers within ten days. 
And, although that is in excess of what Ive referenced above, in some cases I might think 
that isnt an unreasonable target. But I think it also needs to be balanced against what is 
reasonably possible. I am mindful that, since ReAssure sets the value for transfers on the 
day after the instruction is received, a prolonged processing period will mean consumers are 
out of the market for an extended period.
As I said earlier, Ms G held two, largely identical, pension plans with ReAssure. And 
ReAssure completed the transfer of one of those plans within just a couple of days allowing 
Ms G to reinvest her pension savings with the new provider and take advantage of a rising 
market. But ReAssure says that it held the other transfer as it wanted to ensure that Ms G 
was aware that an exit penalty would be payable.
It isnt clear to me why two near identical transfers were treated differently. ReAssure 
appears to suggest that both transfers should have been delayed, as both had an exit 
penalty. But when Ms G complained about that exit penalty ReAssure went to great lengths 
to explain that she, or at the very least her financial advisor, had been made aware of the 
charge beforehand. So Im not persuaded that ReAssure needed to make that additional 
check. And that conclusion is supported by the apparent lack of contact from ReAssure at 
the time  if it had held the processing of the second transfer, Id assume that decision was 
made at the same time as the first transfer was paid. It doesnt seem that ReAssure made 
any attempt to contact Ms G before she called around a week later.
I accept that ReAssures normal processes indicate that the value of the transferred funds 
will be set at the day after the instruction was received. But I think there is more to consider 
here. It appears that ReAssure wouldnt have disinvested Ms Gs pension savings in the 
second plan until she was advised of the exit penalty, and so a higher value was most likely 
received for those investments than has been paid to Ms G on the basis of the earlier unit 
prices. That means, as far as I can tell, that ReAssure has profited from the delay. 
For me to agree with such a process would effectively be enabling businesses to delay 
making a transfer on the basis that they could then potentially profit by offering the lower 
payment due at the earlier date, but capitalising on a higher payment received for when investments are sold at the later date. My view is that this could result in particularly poor 
consumer outcomes and is something in which I think the regulator might take a keen 
interest. 
Therefore, whilst I dont think there is any suggestion that ReAssure has acted dishonestly 
here, I dont think Ms G should lose out as a result of the delay. ReAssure shouldnt profit 
from the time it took to complete the transfer. To do so would create the type of moral hazard 
Ive outlined above. 
I dont think it is reasonable for ReAssure to expect Ms G to be out of the market for an 
extended period of time whilst its back-office processes catch up. If ReAssure wanted to 
contact Ms G before completing the transfer instruction it should have set the effective date 
of the instruction as when that confirmation had been received. So that would have allowed 
Ms G to potentially benefit from any market uplift before her pension savings were 
transferred to the new provider. 
But, on balance, I see little reason why the second transfer should have been delayed. 
ReAssure has explained at length why it was reasonable to deduct the exit penalty, and that 
Ms G had been sufficiently informed about it beforehand. So I think the second transfer 
should have proceeded in a similar timescale to the first. I see nothing different in the two 
transfers that makes me think that, if ReAssure had acted correctly, it wouldnt have 
completed at the same time. I dont therefore agree with ReAssure that Ms G should take 
any comfort from an assurance that both transfers were completed within the normal 
processing expectations.
Ms G has explained that her pension savings from the first plan, once transferred to the new 
provider, saw significant growth in the period before her second plan was transferred. I think 
ReAssure should put things right for Ms G by paying her compensation equivalent to that 
growth on the transferred value of her second pension plan.
As Ive explained earlier I think ReAssures customer service fell short of the levels I would 
think are reasonable when she was calling to understand the status of, and delay to, the 
second transfer. I think it would be reasonable for ReAssure to pay an additional sum of 
£250 for the inconvenience shes been caused.
Putting things right
I think ReAssure needs to compensate Ms G for the loss of investment growth on her 
second pension plan during the unnecessary time it took to validate her instruction. So 
ReAssure should;
Compare the performance of Ms Gs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, ReAssure should pay into Ms Gs pension plan, to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. ReAssure shouldnt pay the compensation into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If ReAssure is unable to pay the compensation into Ms Gs pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Ms G wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms Gs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. I think its reasonable to assume 
that Ms G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction would equal 20%. However, as Ms G would have been able to take a 
tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
In addition, Ms G should be paid £250 for the distress and inconvenience this matter 
has caused to her retirement planning.
Portfolio Name Status BenchmarkFrom 
(start date)To 
(end date)
Policy ending 
49ATransferred to 
new providerMs Gs pension 
investment 
performance 
with the new 
provider13 November 
2020Date of this final 
decision
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the policy should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point 
it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if you 
total all those payments and deduct that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead 
of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Ms G wanted to transfer both her ReAssure pension policies to the new provider.
Had the transfer progressed without a delay by ReAssure, it shouldve completed at 
the same time as the other policy. The calculation above will therefore establish 
whether Ms G suffered a financial loss due to the transfer of the second policy being 
completed 10 working days after the transfer value was set on the notification date.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Gs complaint and direct ReAssure Limited to put things 
right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman