DRN-3479569
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Yorkshire Building Society unfairly closed his savings accounts in 
branch. He said he wasnt given two months notice of the closure and that Yorkshire initially 
only offered him £50 compensation for this when he had asked for £100. Mr M says 
Yorkshire shouldve offered £100 straightaway.  
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said after considering 
Mr Ms testimony and the testimony of staff in the branch, she felt the £100 Yorkshire offered 
was fair and reasonable for the lack of notice it gave Mr M. But that Yorkshire was entitled to 
close Mr Ms accounts. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said that Yorkshire hadnt 
treated him fairly, had discriminated against him and that the £100 offer wasnt sufficient. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Yorkshire said that it sent a letter to Mr M  dated 05 April 2022  making him aware of its 
decision to close his accounts following an incident in branch on 01 April 2022. On 06 April 
2022 Mr M, who hadnt received Yorkshires letter at this point, revisited the branch and was 
told about the letter. A member of the branch told Mr M that his accounts were going to be 
closed immediately and a cheque was issued to him for the amount he held in his savings 
accounts. 
Mr M has said he hasnt been aggressive to the members of staff and feels like he has been 
discriminated against. Mr M has said he has been a loyal customer and has been the victim 
of a witch hunt. 
Yorkshire has said that several of its staff members now feel uncomfortable to serve Mr M 
due to his threatening and abusive conduct. The Financial Ombudsman does not condone 
any customer acting in an aggressive or abusive manner. And if a customer does act in this 
way, I think it is reasonable for a business, in this case Yorkshire, to act in accordance with 
its terms and conditions and decide to close an account. 
Here, I am satisfied that Mr M had been told about his behaviour in branch previously in 
September 2021. And Ive also considered both parties version of the events that occurred in 
April 2022. Having done so, Im satisfied the banking relationship had broken down. Mr M 
was clearly unhappy with the level of service he was receiving. Therefore, I dont think 
Yorkshire unfairly decided to end its banking relationship with him in its letter dated 05 April 
2022. And this is shown by the events that occurred after Yorkshire had made a decision to 
close Mr Ms account with a further altercation happening in the branch. 
Mr M has disputed whether the £100 he has been offered is sufficient. I agree with the 
investigator that although Im sure Mr M was surprised to be made aware of Yorkshires 
decision to close his accounts in the branch and to be given a cheque, the £100 offer seems 
reasonable to me and in line with what Id expect in similar cases.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman