DRN-3098471
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax wont refund a payment made 
on her credit card to a travel booking website for flights.
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs K bought flight tickets for three using her Halifax credit card through a 
travel booking website (the Website). she says she was charged more than the amount 
she agreed to pay on the website. On the journey itself Mrs K says there were severe delays 
to the flights and damage to her baggage.
Mrs K complained to Airline but was unsuccessful. So she complained to the Website and it 
said there wasnt any persuasive evidence to support her complaint about being 
overcharged and rejected her complaint.
So Mrs K asked Halifax to help. It considered a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. But it said it didnt think the appropriate relationship was in place for Halifax 
to be held liable for the flight delays. It also said that she didnt provide any supporting 
evidence for a chargeback initially and then complained about other issues outside of the 
timeframe in which a chargeback could be raised.
Mrs K didnt think this was fair, so she brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter and felt that Halifax hadnt treated Mrs K unfairly in how it had 
considered the issues here. Mrs K didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about Halifax, as Mrs Ks credit card account provider. Its not about the 
Website, which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Nor can I 
consider what the Airline did or didnt do. Im only considering whether Halifax should have 
helped with the dispute with the Website in any other way to the way it did.
There are three areas where Halifax could help Mrs K with this issue. This is in authorisation 
of the transaction itself, under the chargeback scheme and finally a claim under S75.
authorisation
Mrs K accepts she made the transaction in question on her Halifax credit card. She says she 
was overcharged. Ive considered what Mrs K has said and note that she said:
I tried to book a flight to (destination), and the price showing was £627, however, when I 
tried to book I was unable to make a payment. When I retried the price showing had 
suddenly increased to £635. I then was able to book the flight at this price, however, when I 
completed the booking the price calculated was different to what I had booked and did not 
realise this until I divided the amount after completing the purchase and noticed that I had 
been overcharged.
The Website has said it is satisfied the full cost is shown prior to the transaction being 
completed. It notes that it offers discounts on some payment methods and also said that Mrs 
K used her Halifax credit card which wouldnt be eligible for such a discount. So it appears 
from what Mrs K has said she wasnt able to complete the transaction initially and had to 
retry to book it. I should also say that the process to book has a cost breakdown on one side 
of the screen and on the left side there are an array of options to chose from and selections 
to be made. And having considered Mrs Ks comments I cannot discount the possibility she 
didnt notice the costs changing as she progressed through the sales process.
Considering what has what happened here and what the parties have said Im satisfied on 
balance that Mrs K did properly authorise the transaction at the time. And it was correctly 
allocated to her account by Halifax. 
could Halifax challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant, as Mrs K does 
here, Halifax (as the card issuer) can attempt a chargeback. Generally we say its fair for a 
card issuer to attempt a chargeback if theres a reasonable prospect of success, for example 
where goods arent received, or it appears that the payment wasnt properly authorised by 
the cardholder. I dont think Halifax could have raised a successful chargeback on the 
transaction itself based on what Ive already concluded. So I dont think she lost out on this 
aspect of the chargeback.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme and has certain rules including time limits for 
chargebacks to be attempted. I can see that I can see that when Mrs K approached Halifax 
about issues relating to the flights themselves that the relevant time limits had already 
elapsed. So any chargeback on those issues would have been out of time. So I dont think 
Halifax treated Mrs K unfairly by not trying a chargeback on those issues.
Section 75
The transaction was made using Mrs Ks Halifaxs credit card. Under section 75, in certain 
circumstances, she has an equal right to claim against Halifax as she does against the 
supplier if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be certain conditions met including an 
appropriate relationship between the parties in respect of the transaction financed by the 
credit card. This is known as a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement. And to understand how 
this applies it is important to appreciate the contractual relationships between the various 
parties.
Mrs K paid the Website using the credit provided by Halifax. The Website provides the 
service of sourcing and arranging flight tickets. But it isnt responsible for the flights 
themselves. Its the Airline that provide that service. So in respect of this transaction Mrs K is 
the debtor, Halifax the creditor and the Website is the supplier.
Mrs K booked the tickets with the website and is named on the booking confirmation. So it 
appears she has a contract with it in respect of the arranging of the flights. I have also 
looked at the websites terms and conditions and these confirm the nature of the contractual 
relationship with Mrs K. So overall I am satisfied that Mrs K is able to make a claim against Halifax under Section 75 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation by the Website in the supply of the service of 
sourcing and arranging of the flights if such breach or misrepresentation is made out. And 
having considered this Im not persuaded the Website failed in its duty to source and supply 
the flight tickets. After all it is accepted that Mrs K and the rest of her party did indeed use 
the flight tickets. So Im not persuaded the Website did anything wrong which Halifax should 
be responsible for under S75.
However, Mrs K did not contract with the Airline in respect of this transaction. So I dont think 
she can hold Halifax responsible via Section 75 for the actions or failings of the Airline as Im 
not persuaded that the proper DCS relationship is in place for this to happen. So I dont think 
she can hold Halifax responsible for the flight delays or damaged baggage shes mentioned.
Mrs K disagrees with this analysis. Shes said that would mean large numbers of holidays 
wouldnt be covered. I should add this juncture a key issue is that if bookings qualify as 
package holidays there are different rules covering such bookings and they often are 
covered by S75. But this isnt the case here. Mrs K booked flights only through an agent. 
And in this particular situation S75 doesnt apply to the provision of the flights themselves.
Mrs K has also pointed towards the option of the 14-day cooling off period. But Im not 
persuaded this makes a difference as they used the flights here. So Im not persuaded she 
tried to exercise this option properly. 
Mrs K says the website acted fraudulently. Im not persuaded this is the case on the basis of 
what Mrs K has said. I think it more likely that the total cost was shown and hence Halifax 
hasnt done anything wrong in relation to this.
Mrs K says the Website and the Airline are part of the same supply chain. This is indeed the 
case. But the chain required for Halifax to be responsible under S75 is the three-party type 
relationship described in Consumer Credit Act 1974. And for the reasons Ive given Im not 
persuaded it is made out here.
Mrs K says the transaction should be reversed. But that would be clearly unfair as that would 
mean she and her party would have had the benefit of three long distance return flights for 
free. It would also mean Halifax would not only have to refund her but also absorb the costs 
of the flights. So Im not persuaded this is a fair solution to Mrs Ks complaint.
In summary Halifax didnt raise a chargeback, but I dont think Mrs K lost out because of this. 
I think that there is the appropriate relationship for a Section 75 claim regarding the Website, 
but I do not think such a claim should be successful. I say this because I think there was no 
breach or misrepresentation of the contract by the Website. And Im not persuaded there 
was the appropriate relationship in place with regard to the Airline. So I dont think Halifax 
can be held responsible for the flight delays or the damaged baggage. So I dont think I can 
fairly require Halifax to pay any refund to Mrs K. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman