DRN-3096754
The complaint
The estate of Miss Cs complains that TFS loans irresponsibly lent her a guarantor loan in 
2015.
  
What happened
Miss Cs estate complained to TFS about the affordability of the loan. The loan was for 
£7,500 to be repaid over 60 monthly instalments of £279.25.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and thought that the estate was eligible to 
bring the complaint and that in the circumstances, TFS shouldnt have lent to Miss C.
TFS disagreed, it argued that this service shouldnt be looking at this complaint as the estate 
wasnt eligible to bring the complaint. It also said its affordability checks suggest that Miss C 
could afford the loan when it lent to her.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loan was offered.
TFS argues that Miss Cs estate isnt eligible to bring the complaint, it questions whether her 
sons who are administering her estate are old enough to bring the complaint.
Firstly, I have to say that TFS continued disagreement about the eligibility of Miss Cs estate 
to bring this complaint is disappointing. The investigator explained in quite clear terms why 
she thought this was a complaint that this service could proceed to investigate. TFS has also 
refused to provide its file on this complaint to this service.
Miss Cs sons have provided proof of a grant of letter of administration by a court which 
states their names and gives them the legal authority to administer the estate of their late 
mother. So, from this services point of view, the age of her sons (one of whom has been 
over 18 since the life of this complaint) doesnt reduce the fact that they have a legal right to 
administer their mothers estate and so they are eligible to bring the complaint on behalf of 
the estate. Im satisfied that this service has the required authority to look into this complaint.
The lending decision
TFS is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of this 
lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont repeat 
them here. TFS is also aware of the factors this service considers when looking at a 
complaint about the lending decision on a loan. Briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient 
checks to ensure that Miss C would be able to repay the borrowing applied for over the term 
of the loan. As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that she could manage the 
repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.
Essentially the loan didnt just need to be affordable on a pounds and pence calculation, TFS 
needed to be satisfied that Miss C could repay the loan over the term without having to 
borrow to repay it and without getting into financial difficulties.
TFS lent Miss C a guarantor loan in December 2015, as stated above, TFS didnt provide its 
case file for this complaint and so Ive relied on the information provided on behalf of Miss 
Cs estate.
I can see that before it lent, TFS carried out a credit check on Miss C and it asked her about 
her monthly income and expenses, including her credit commitments. I have also seen a 
transcript of its pre-approval calls with Miss C at the time. During the first call, Miss C and 
the TFS rep went through her income and expenses in detail, the transcript also suggests 
that TFS saw payslips from Miss C.
Miss C declared her income as £1,500 but when TFS verified this information, it found that 
Miss Cs income was less, at around £1,158 per month. Miss C also declared her overall 
living costs as being around £647, this included things like rent and utilities. 
The results of TFS credit search showed some concerning information. The search results 
showed that Miss C had quite a number of defaulted accounts. In 2011, Miss C had a county 
court judgement (CCJ) recorded against her, she also had another CCJ recorded against 
her in 2012. Also, in 2012, Miss C had 2 defaults, another default in 2013 and the most 
recent default in March 2015, a few months before TFS lent to her.
Further when TFS calculated Miss Cs outgoings against her income, she was left with 
around £52 disposable income, which meant that she wasnt left with sufficient disposable 
income over the term of the loan. TFS response to the investigators view says that Miss C 
also told it she received child care support from her ex-partner for her children of around 
£240 a month. But Im also conscious that the notes TFS recorded about the loan suggest 
that it didnt accept this payment as part of her income and so Im surprised that TFS is now 
seeking to rely on this information.
From the call transcript Ive seen, it is clear to me that TFS was concerned about Miss Cs 
ability to repay this loan in a sustainable manner over the term, the adviser seemed to 
suggest to Miss C that they had found a way to lend her this loan, even though its own 
calculation suggests she was likely to struggle with the loan repayments over the five year 
term. Even if I was to accept that TFS lent to Miss C on the basis of this childcare payment, which 
Im not satisfied that it did, Im conscious that Miss C was still going to be paying a significant 
portion of her £1,158 income towards credit. The loan repayment for this loan was £279.25 
and she also had another outstanding high cost loan she was paying £197 towards and so 
she was paying close to £500 a month towards credit with the approval of this loan.
Without taking into account her living costs, the fact she had two dependent children, and 
bearing in mind what TFS found on her credit file and the obvious concerns it had about 
lending to her, I think it should have been aware that it was likely Miss C would struggle to 
repay the loan over the term. In those circumstances, it shouldnt have lent to her and it 
needs to put things right.
Ive already noted TFS concerns about the eligibility of Miss Cs estate to bring this 
complaint and the issues it raised about her sons, who are the legal administrators of her 
estate. However, it appears to have no concerns about Miss Cs sons (the estate) being old 
enough to be pursued for monies it considers owed to it. I find this a puzzling contradiction.
Taking all the factors here into account, TFS shouldnt have lent to Miss C and it needs to 
put things right.
  
Putting things right
Its unclear how much is currently outstanding on the loan but TFS has confirmed that Miss 
C has made some payments towards the loan. So, to put things rights, TFS should;
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan,
Treat any payments made by Miss C as payments towards the capital amount of 
£7,500,
If Miss C has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded 
to her estate with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, TFS should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Miss Cs estate.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Miss Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS loans must 
give Miss Cs estate a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if it asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as stated above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
C to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman