DRN-2978813
The complaint
Ms Ws complained that Toyota Insurance Management SE mis-handled her car insurance 
policy renewal in 2020.
What happened
In April 2019, Ms W was involved in an incident in which she was accused by a third party of 
causing damage to their car. Mrs W reported this to her insurers policy administrators at the 
time. 
Ms W renewed the policy in June 2019 and nothing of apparent note happened until Mrs W 
spoke to Toyota  the previous policy administrators successor  to renew the policy by 
phone in 2020. Thats when she was told there was a flag on her name on a database of 
certain motor etc. incidents commonly used by insurers and their administrators. To have the 
flag removed, Ms W contacted the organisation that manages the database to ask for a copy 
of her records. She forwarded the records to Toyota who increased her premium by around 
£56 as a result of the information contained in them. 
Unhappy with that, Ms W complained to Toyota. Toyota said it was basing its decision to 
increase the premium on the grounds the information provided by Ms W showed the 
previous policy administrators had settled the claim on a fault basis. Toyota said it wasnt to 
blame for the previous policy administrators not having informed Ms W about the settlement 
of the claim or informing Toyota as the successor policy administrator. But it did agree to 
waive the additional premium as a gesture of goodwill and said future renewals with the 
insurer wouldnt be affected by the claim.   
Ms W didnt agree with Toyotas response and so brought a complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into the matter but didnt recommend it should be upheld, as they 
thought Toyota had acted reasonably.
The complaint was passed to me to review afresh because Ms W didnt agree with the 
investigators findings. In summary, she referred to certain legislation she believed prevented 
Toyota from attempting to charge the additional premium after the policy had already started 
in 2020. Ms W acknowledged that Toyota had eventually agreed not to charge the additional 
premium but not before shed been caused distress and inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ms Ws complaint stems in part at least from the accepted actions of the 
policys previous administrators. Those actions were carried out by a separate financial 
business unconnected with Toyota for the purposes of this complaint. So, although the 
actions of the previous administrators have had some bearing on my decision, Ive focussed 
instead on the actions of Toyota as the administrators at the relevant time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms W accepts she was involved in an incident in April 2019 and that the previous policy 
administrators entered details of this on a central database.
Im satisfied Toyota was entitled to take account of the details recorded on the database 
when the policy renewed in 2020. I think the information contained on it reasonably led it to 
believe at the time that a claim had been settled in 2019 and that Ms W had been at fault.
I can see that the previous policy administrator wrote to Ms W to say in fact its file had been 
closed and that the details it had left on the database were incorrect. It said the claim should 
have been cancelled and the details removed from the database. The administrator 
apologised for the error and confirmed her record had been corrected. But that didnt mean 
Toyota wasnt entitled to rely on the entry as it had been entered originally and before the 
administrator had corrected the error. Toyota wasnt aware the database entry had been 
made in error at the time.
Ms W said Toyota wasnt entitled to change the terms of the contract, by charging the 
additional premium, once it had started in June 2020. But the statement of insurance issued 
in May 2020  prior to renewal  explained that the insurer reserved the right to decline 
Ms Ws proposal, apply terms or offer a policy containing restriction in cover.
Toyotas explained that it didnt pick up on the flag at renewal in 2019 because it didnt carry 
out such checks at the time.
Ms Ws cited, among other things, the Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and 
Additional Charges) Regulations 2013/3134 (CCR) as evidence that the premium increase 
was unfair. But there are limits to the situations and types of contracts the regulations apply 
to. I note that regulation 6. (1) of the CCR states the regulations dont apply to a contract for 
services of a banking, credit, insurance, personal pension, investment or payment nature. 
Given that this contract was one of insurance, I believe the CCR expressly dont apply here.
I realise Ms W says shes suffered because of Toyotas actions but, as Ive said, I dont 
believe Toyota did anything wrong in taking the database entry into account when it came to 
its attention. 
In any event, I note that although Toyota asked Ms W to pay the higher premium in June 
2020, it told her it had waived the increase by the time of its final response of July 2020. So, 
it seems Ms W didnt pay the additional premium and that Toyota cancelled its request for 
the amount soon afterwards. On that basis, I believe the issue was resolved relatively 
quickly once Toyota became aware of it and that any distress and inconvenience Ms W 
experienced as a result was, while unfortunate, likely to be minimal. 
In summary, I believe Toyota was entitled to rely on the database entry that was brought to 
its attention in requesting the additional premium that it did. And I dont believe Toyota need 
pay Ms W any compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 Nimish Patel
Ombudsman