DRN-3019129
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc recorded late payment markers on his credit file, 
contrary to what he says it had agreed to do.
What happened
In May 2018, Mr B opened a student account with HSBC. This account came with an 
overdraft facility with zero interest and a credit limit of £1,000. Mr B says that as far as he 
knew at the time, he did not have to repay it until after he had graduated. In fact, the terms 
and conditions of the account required him to make regular credits to the account, not less 
frequently than each month. (He says he didnt read them.)
During the month of June, Mr B spent the entire overdraft limit. He made no payments into 
the account until April the following year, when he paid back the debt in full, as a result of 
receiving a default notice, a final demand, and other letters from the bank (including one in 
November in which HSBC had told him it was cancelling his overdraft).
Mr B avoided his account being defaulted, but he subsequently realised that HSBC had 
been placing late payment markers on his credit file each month for four months, and this 
had adversely affected his credit rating. He said this contravened an agreement HSBC had 
made with him in a phone call in January 2019, in which HSBC had given him 90 days to 
repay the overdraft balance in full. He had met that deadline in April. He asked for the 
markers to be removed.
HSBC refused, saying that it had only promised to suspend interest and letters for 90 days, 
and not to default the account, and had said that in all other respects his account would be 
managed as normal  which included reporting accurate information about the account to 
the credit reference agencies each month. Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr B 
brought this complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He pointed out that despite HSBC repeatedly 
writing to Mr B in 2018 to ask him to make some payments into the account, he had not 
done so. He said HSBC had begun adding late payment markers to Mr Bs credit file in 
December 2018, being the month after the overdraft facility was withdrawn and the account 
was sent to collections, and before the January 2019 phone call. He said the agreement 
made in the phone call had only been about not defaulting the account. HSBC had a duty to 
record accurate information about the account, and the late payment markers were an 
accurate reflection of what had happened. He accepted that HSBC could have made that 
clearer in the letters and in the phone call, but it had made it clear when the account was 
opened. He believed that Mr B should reasonably have known that leaving a debt unpaid 
would affect his credit file.
Mr B did not accept that opinion. He said he had not read the account terms and conditions 
because they were so long, and if HSBC had been clearer then he would have repaid the 
debt sooner. He said HSBC had put him in an impossible position of having to pay a large 
balance at a time when he was not working. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I understand why Mr B didnt want to read the account terms and conditions, since he has 
explained that they were 26 pages long and he did not have the patience to read them. That 
was his choice, but it does not follow that HSBC failed to tell him that it would report 
information about his account to the credit reference agencies.
When the account was opened, HSBC sent him a welcome letter (dated 30 May 2018), 
which was two pages long. On page 2, under the heading Payments into your account, it 
said he should make regular payments into the account, and not use his overdraft for long-
term borrowing. HSBC reminded him of the need to make regular payments in its September 
and October 2018 letters. So I cannot agree that it is HSBCs fault that Mr B found himself in 
the position of having to pay off a large overdraft balance when the overdraft facility was 
withdrawn in November.
I have listened to a recording of the phone call made on 9 January 2019. At around 23 
minutes and 15 seconds into the call, the call handler specifically says that HSBC cannot 
stop information being passed to the credit reference agencies. Later in the call, after Mr B 
told another call handler that he would make payment in full on 8 April, the call handler told 
him he was putting him on a payment plan for 90 days, during which the account would not 
be defaulted. He did not say that Mr Bs credit file would not be affected, however.
Following that call, HSBC sent Mr B a letter to confirm what had happened, dated 15 
January. This letter didnt say that no information about the account would be reported to 
credit reference agencies. It only said that for three months HSBC would not contact Mr B 
again about repayments on the account, or charge him interest. It went on to say we will still 
be managing your account in accordance with our normal procedures. It did not specifically 
mention his credit file (except in an unrelated paragraph about default notices in case he did 
not keep to the repayment plan). But I dont think it was implied that the state of the account 
would not be reported as normal.
For these reasons, I dont think it was the banks fault that Mr B concluded that his credit file 
would not be affected by his failure to repay the overdraft balance between November 2018, 
when the facility was cancelled, and April 2019, when he repaid it.
(Even if I took a different view about that, there was no reason for Mr B to think that a 
payment plan agreed in January 2019 would be retrospective to November 2018. So he still 
should have known that a late payment marker would have been applied to his credit file in 
December, and would continue to remain there.)
I think that the information recorded on Mr Bs credit file by HSBC is accurate, and that there 
is no reason to remove or amend it. The payment plan was adhered to by both parties.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021. 
Richard WoodOmbudsman