DRN-3247444
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc delayed letting him have a copy of his 
finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Mr C was concerned that Covid protocols were not being followed by the dealer and it was 
suggested the paper copy of the agreement would not be needed and a copy would be 
emailed within the 14-day cooling off period.
Mr C says he didnt receive a copy, but Santander says one would have been sent to him 
electronically. He asked the dealer for a copy and when that wasnt forthcoming he 
contacted Santander in May 2021. It posted a copy to him straightaway. I have noted 
Santanders internal records which confirm the agreement was sent on 14 May.  A further 
copy was sent in July after Mr C made a complaint. 
It is regrettable that Mr C didnt get his copy of the agreement until several months had 
passed, but in the circumstances I can see why the dealer didnt had over a paper copy at 
the time. I cannot say why Mr C didnt get the electronic version Santander says was issued, 
nor why the paper copy in May wasnt received. However, I am satisfied that these were 
issued by Santander and as such I cannot safely conclude that it has done anything wrong.
I am not aware that Mr C has suffered any financial, loss as a result of not having the 
agreement, save for the time he took in making several calls and possibly some phone 
costs. I dont consider that these are such that they merit compensation, not least because I 
cannot say that Santander made an error.
I appreciate that it was the dealer which processed the application and it would normally 
have given Mr C a paper copy at the time. Given the state of the pandemic in early 2021 not 
doing so was a reasonable  approach to have taken and while I appreciate the frustration Mr 
C encountered in getting hold of a copy I do not consider this is such that would allow me to 
uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman