DRN-3077361
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) closed his account. 
What happened
Mr A held an account with RBS. In October 2019, Mr As account was frozen  he couldnt 
use his account or access the money held in it.
In December 2019, RBS decided to close Mr As account. They wrote to him and gave him 
60 days notice of the closure. The day after, they unblocked Mr As account. 
Mr A withdrew the money held in his account and RBS closed it in February 2020.
Mr A complained to RBS  they responded but didnt uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A brought the complaint to our service. He said the whole situation left him in a difficult 
position  and he was investigated by police and had to go to court. Mr A feels this was RBS 
error.
Our investigator looked at things. She said RBS have legal and regulatory obligations they 
must meet, and she was satisfied they acted in line with those when blocking Mr As 
account. Our investigator was also satisfied that RBS could close Mr As account and did so 
in line with the terms and conditions.
Mr A didnt agree. He said the terms and conditions dont state anything about police 
involvement. He thinks RBS should have investigated things themselves before referring him 
to the police.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like our investigator explained, RBS are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in 
order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
RBS were acting in line with these obligations when reviewing and blocking Mr As account. 
I appreciate RBS didnt tell Mr A about the review  but theyre not obliged to. RBS has 
shared information with our service, and while I cant share the full reasons with Mr A, Id like 
to reassure him that having considered everything, I find RBS actions to be reasonable in 
the circumstances. I appreciate the difficulties Mr A faced because of the account block, but I 
cant fairly uphold his complaint on this point as Im satisfied RBS were fair in their actions.
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mr A decided to stop banking with RBS, he wouldnt have to explain why. RBS can only 
close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of the 
account. Im satisfied RBS have complied with the terms when closing Mr As account by 
giving him the appropriate notice  60 days. 
I recognise Mr A thinks RBS should have carried out their own investigations  and he feels 
if theyd have done that, the matter wouldnt have been referred to the police. Mr A thinks 
RBS actions caused him to appear in court and pay extra costs for an emergency solicitor  
and he doesnt agree the terms of the account allow RBS to do that. I fully appreciate Mr As 
strong feeling around this  but based on the full circumstances of this complaint, and the 
evidence and arguments Ive received, I cant fairly agree RBS actions were unfair. I agree it 
may have been helpful for RBS to query certain transactions with Mr A as part of their 
review, but I dont think it would have made an overall difference to the outcome of the 
complaint. Ultimately RBS exercised their right to review the account and made the decision 
to close it. And I havent seen anything to suggest they made an unfair decision. 
Im not able to comment on the actions of the police or court as its not in my remit to do so  
but I am satisfied RBS complied with their broader regulatory obligations with which they 
have to comply. Im sorry I cant share more detail with Mr A, but our rules allow us to 
receive evidence in confidence and some of the information RBS has shared is information 
we consider should be kept confidential.
Overall, while I recognise the position Mr A found himself in, I cant fairly uphold his 
complaint. And thats because to do so, Id need to be satisfied RBS did something wrong  
and having looked at everything, I dont think they did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman