DRN-3185159
The complaint and background
 Mrs M has complained about changes to HSBC UK Bank Plcs charging structure for 
overdrafts. Shes also complained that the charges applied to her account over many years 
have caused her financial difficulties. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mrs M was 
dissatisfied, she referred the complaint to our service.
Mrs Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that HSBC ought 
to have realised that Mrs M was experiencing financial difficulty by July 2016 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. HSBC 
disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I agree with our adjudicator that HSBC 
acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after July 
2016. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mrs M was in no position to sustainably 
repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
I say this because, by this point, Mrs M was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt 
seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. As our adjudicator 
explained, HSBCs own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency 
borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. HSBC has argued that this only refers to 
unarranged overdrafts, and that its literature just suggests that arranged overdrafts are not 
generally suitable for long-term borrowing. But I note that HSBCs own website has 
described arranged overdrafts as:
A financial safety net, just in case you need it
If you need a little money to tide you over or cover unexpected expenses, an arranged 
overdraft can be a useful way of borrowing for the short term.
And the terms and conditions that HSBC sent us with its file for this very complaint also refer 
to overdrafts (not specifically unarranged overdrafts) as being for short-term borrowing.
In any case, the Lending Code, which was in place at the time, clearly stated that hardcore 
borrowing was a potential indicator of difficulty. So I remain of the view that sustained and 
prolonged overdraft usage is an indication of a potential problem.
With all this in mind, I think that Mrs Ms overdraft usage should have prompted HSBC to 
have realised that she wasnt using her overdraft as intended and so it shouldnt have 
continued offering it on the same terms. As HSBC didnt react to Mrs Ms overdraft usage 
and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mrs M ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC didnt 
treat Mrs M fairly and she lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ms current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it after 1 July 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mrs M to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Ms credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in July 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ms credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman