DRN-3915578
The complaint
Miss B complains about Skyfire Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim made 
under her car insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B has a car insurance policy underwritten by Skyfire. She made a claim on 4 July 2022 
after her car was stolen.
Miss B says when the car was stolen, there were two child seats and a pram inside. The 
total value of these items being just over £2,000.
She says when she contacted Skyfire, they told her they would pay her the full cost of 
replacing the child seats and pram. She says she was told this several times. And was 
asked for receipts for the items so that Skyfire could reimburse her the full costs.
She says Skyfire later told her they would only pay £250 in total for the items lost when the 
car was stolen. At that point, she made a complaint to Skyfire, but they didnt change their 
position, so she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Skyfire should settle the claim in full and pay 
Miss B the full cost of the child seats and pram.
Skyfire failed to respond to our investigators view to say whether or not they accept his 
findings, despite being prompted several times. And for that reason, the complaint was 
referred to me so that I can make a decision which will be binding on Skyfire if Miss B 
accepts it.
Because I disagreed with our investigator about how the complaint should be resolved, I 
issued a provisional decision. That allowed both Miss B and Skyfire to provide further 
information or evidence and/or to comment on my thinking before I issue my final decision in 
this case.
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing to say is that weve been somewhat frustrated in our investigation of 
this complaint because Skyfire have provided no evidence or information for us to 
consider.
We asked Skyfire to provide their business file relating to this complaint in late 
August 2022. When we chased Skyfire for a reply, in October 2022, they asked for 
more time to get the relevant information together. We agreed and set a deadline for 
Skyfires reply.
In early November, having still had no substantive replay from Skyfire, our 
investigator issued his view on the case. This required a response from Skyfire, 
within a given period of time, to say whether they agreed with the proposed outcome 
or not.
We chased Skyfire again when that deadline passed. Skyfire thanked us for giving 
them extra time to reply, but then provided no further substantive response to our 
investigators view.
Throughout that correspondence, weve been clear with Skyfire about the 
consequences if they fail to engage with us about this complaint. In particular, weve 
pointed out that the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules which set out what our 
service can do  the dispute resolution (or DISP) rules  allow us to proceed to 
consider a complaint if a respondent business fails to comply with a request for 
information within a time limit weve set (DISP 3.5.14).
In the absence of any evidence or information from Skyfire, I have to assume that 
what Miss B has told us is true. Theres no reason at all to disbelieve her  what she 
tells us is cogent, consistent and persuasive.
Shes also provided us with copies of text messages between herself and Skyfires 
claim handlers. One of these appears to suggest that Skyfire will reimburse her the 
cost of the child seats and pram once she provides receipts. Another says that Miss 
Bs complaint to Skyfire has been closed  though it doesnt say how or why  and 
refers her to our service if she remains unhappy.
So, if I get no further information or evidence in response to this provisional decision, 
Im minded to uphold Miss Bs complaint.
However, our investigators view was that Skyfire should pay the claim in full  up to 
the just over £2,000 Miss B said the child seats and pram had cost. I dont think thats 
the fairest outcome in this case. Ill explain why.
We havent seen a copy of Miss Bs policy  primarily because Skyfire havent 
provided us with any evidence or information about this case. However, it would be 
unusual if the policy didnt contain limits on the amount Skyfire would pay out for lost 
contents of a car.
Typically, policies which provide this kind of cover would set an upper limit (or limits) 
on possessions left in a car and/or on accessories such as car seats. Thats not 
unfair or unreasonable  as long as the policy terms are clear to the policyholder. Its 
not difficult to understand why insurers would be keen to ensure that policyholders 
didnt leave large amounts of valuable possessions unattended in their cars.
I dont know what the relevant limits were in Miss Bs policy  if indeed there were 
any at all. But I think it would be unfair to ask Skyfire to pay the full cost of the child 
seats and pram if clear limits were set out in the policy.
Either Miss B or Skyfire  or both  might wish to provide more information about the 
policy terms in response to this provisional decision. But at present, given the 
information we have, Im minded to require Skyfire to pay Miss Bs claim up to the 
relevant upper limits (if there are any) set out in the policy.
It's not entirely clear to me either, at present, whether Miss B provided sufficient proof 
of ownership and/or value for the three items in question. My assumption - and it is very much an assumption given the lack of concrete evidence  is that Miss B very 
likely provided a receipt for the pram but may not have done so for the child seats.
I say that because the £250 Miss B says she was offered in settlement of the claim 
looks like it might be a policy limit for a single item and/or for personal possessions 
left in the car (child seats would usually be considered separately from other personal 
possessions). Again, either party can enlighten me on that point in response to this 
provisional decision.
If I get no further evidence, I will require Skyfire to pay up to the policy limits for both 
the pram and the car seats. In all the circumstances, a mother with small children, 
with a pram in her car, is extraordinarily unlikely not to have had car seats in the car. 
I dont think it would be fair for Skyfire to require receipts if Miss B didnt keep them 
after she purchased the seats.
Again, if Skyfire have any reason at all to doubt that Miss B had child seats in the car 
or to suggest that she was exaggerating the cost, Im sure theyll provide their 
rationale and evidence in response to this provisional decision. Otherwise, Ill be 
requiring them to pay the claim for the child seats  and the pram  up to any 
relevant policy limits.
Im also minded to require Skyfire to add interest at 8% simple to the claim payment 
when they eventually make it. This is a relatively simple claim. It was made on 4 July 
2022. Miss B made her complaint to Skyfire in early August after being told  she 
says - they would only pay £250 in total for the pram and child seats.
Skyfires response to the complaint  at least from what we can see when we look at 
the final response Miss B got - didnt explain their reasoning for the claim decision at 
all.
I think its very likely that if Skyfire had engaged with Miss B thoroughly at that point, 
this claim would have been settled  most likely in the way Im now suggesting in this 
provisional decision - by the end of August at the latest.
Miss B has been without the money she should have received in settlement of the 
claim, as a direct result of Skyfires errors and omissions, between the end of August 
and the point at which they pay her after we conclude the case. So, Im minded to 
require Skyfire to pay 8% simple interest on the final settlement sum, calculated 
between the end of August 2022 and the date they finally pay Miss B.
Im also minded to require Skyfire to pay Miss B £150 compensation for the trouble 
and upset shes experienced as a result of the errors in their handling of the claim.
Miss B has been inconvenienced in having to pursue what, as I say, was a relatively 
simple claim, to try to get an explanation from Skyfire about their decision on 
settlement.
Shes also suffered frustration, stress and upset because the offer made by Skyfire 
was less than she expected and/or should have been offered. And her expectations 
have been disappointed because she was originally told or led to believe  on a 
number of occasions - that the claim would be settled in full and later told shed be 
paid a maximum of £250.
I bear in mind that Miss Bs trouble and upset has been extended over a longer 
period than was necessary because of Skyfires failure to engage properly with her complaint to them and/or with our investigation into this matter.
Again, if Skyfire disagree with Miss B about the nature and/or content of the phone 
calls and other contacts between them in July and August 2022, they have a chance 
to provide further evidence or information in response to this provisional decision.
So, for those reasons, I said I was minded to uphold Miss Bs complaint and to require 
Skyfire: to pay her claim for the pram and car seats up to the upper policy limit(s); to pay 
interest at 8% simple on that payment; and to pay Miss B £150 in compensation fore her 
trouble and upset.
The responses to my provisional decision 
Miss B responded to say she agreed with the outcome proposed in my provisional decision. 
She reiterated that shed been told the claim for the pram and car seats would be settled in 
full and provided evidence to back that assertion. And she sent a full copy of the receipts for 
the pram and car seats (and the bases for the car seats).
Weve had no response from Skyfire except an automated out-of-office message which said 
their case handler would be back at work by 9 January 2023. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Miss B for providing the full receipts for all the claimed items. I assume that 
shed previously sent the receipts to Skyfire, but on the off chance that she didnt, she should 
do so now.
In the absence of any information or evidence from Skyfire or any comment on the thinking 
set out in my provisional decision, I have no reason to change my mind or re-think the 
proposed outcome.
Putting things right
As set out in my provisional decision  and for the same reasons  Im going to require 
Skyfire to settle the claim for the pram and car seats up to the policy limit(s) - and to pay 
interest on that settlement at 8% simple. 
Miss B has also suffered a degree of trouble and upset  again, for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision. So, Im going to require Skyfire to pay her £150 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Miss Bs 
complaint.
Skyfire Insurance Company Limited must: 
settle the claim for the two child car seats and the pram up to the policy limits for 
personal possessions and/or car seats / accessories, if there are any such limits, or 
in full if there are no applicable policy limits; and
add interest to that payment at 8% simple  calculated from the end of August 2022 to the date this payment is made; and
pay Miss B £150 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
If Skyfire Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss B how much its taken 
off. It should also give Miss B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman