DRN-4297667
The complaint
Mr R complains British Gas Insurance Limited incorrectly diagnosed a problem with his 
boiler under his HomeCare insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both Mr R and British Gas so I wont repeat it 
here. In this decision Ill focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A first visit took place after Mr R moved property and found an issue with the boiler. British 
Gas attended on 14 March 2023, inspected the boiler, and found screw holes on the casing. 
The engineer condemned the boiler and left paperwork which stated: Boiler unsafe. At Risk, 
multiple screw holes in top of boiler combustion case  case seal compromised. Mr R says 
the engineer provided a new boiler quote he rejected. 
Mr R purchased a new boiler privately and arranged for a local engineer to install it the 
following day. Mr R was without heating and hot water because British Gas switched it off 
with his consent due to potential safety concerns. Im satisfied Mr R acted reasonably and 
promptly here based on British Gas engineers findings on 14 March 2023. 
The local engineer during the installation process removed and disconnected the old boiler. 
Mr R says following this, the engineer said they believed the screw holes to be 
manufactured. So, Mr R sent photos to the manufacturer of the boiler to query this. Mr R 
proceeded with the new boiler installation despite this which Im satisfied was reasonable. I 
say this because British Gas had already inspected it, condemned it, and said it was at risk. 
And while I acknowledge Mr R had received conflicting information at that point  the 
installation was already underway. Mr R had purchased a new boiler, with the old one 
disconnected, and the manufacturer hadnt confirmed whether the screw holes were 
manufactured or had compromised the casing. 
The following day, the manufacturer confirmed the screw holes were indeed manufactured. 
Mr R shared this with British Gas later and said he purchased a new boiler as the result of 
their engineer incorrectly condemning an operable boiler. He requested British Gas 
reimbursed the costs of the new boiler and installation because this wasnt required. 
British Gas contacted the manufacturer as the boiler instruction literature provided a diagram 
of the boiler which showed 16 screw holes. Mr Rs boiler had four additional screw holes. 
The manufacturer put this down to an error in the literature. British Gas therefore say their 
engineer acted responsibly when condemning the boiler due to legitimate safety concerns. 
But its my opinion British Gas engineer could have done more here to confirm whether 
these four additional screw holes were manufactured, or potentially dangerous. 
I say this because Ive seen photos of Mr Rs boiler casing and the boiler instruction 
literature. Four additional screw holes can be seen in the top casing thats said to be where 
the flue was positioned. These screw holes were in the same area as the manufactured 
screw holes. Mr R was able to confirm with the manufacturer by email the following day 
these were in fact manufactured screw holes. And on the professional advice from British 
Gas, Mr R considered the only option was to replace the boiler, which is reasonable in my 
view based on the paperwork left by British Gas. And, as mentioned above, Mr R says he 
was also provided with a new boiler quote by British Gas during the 14 March 2023 visit. 
So, its my opinion Mr R acted reasonably and promptly when purchasing and installing a 
new boiler while of the understanding the original boiler was at risk. It wasnt confirmed until 
after the new boiler had been installed that the original one wasnt at risk. British Gas say Mr 
R didnt give them the opportunity to review matters once the local engineer said they 
believed the screw holes to be manufactured. But I must also keep in mind British Gas 
already had the opportunity to inspect the boiler on 14 March 2023, and their actions led to 
Mr R having a new boiler installed. And I dont find concluding Mr R acted unreasonably by 
not halting the installation part way through it would reach a fair and reasonable outcome 
here. Therefore, it follows, British Gas should cover the new boiler installation costs Mr R 
incurred and include interest. 
Ive seen no strong persuasive evidence to suggest Mr Rs original boiler was at the end of 
its serviceable life and therefore would more likely than not have required replacement soon 
in any case. British Gas say the boiler model ceased production in 2015. But the boiler 
wasnt on a reduced service list, nor were parts obsolete. 
Mr R was in the process of moving property and had to promptly act to purchase and 
arrange the installation of a new boiler  that wasnt required. Its fair to say this would have 
caused him to experience a level of distress and inconvenience. The investigator 
recommended British Gas pays Mr R £100 compensation to recognise this, and Im satisfied 
on balance thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Putting things right
Mr R paid £2,705 for the new boiler installation, so British Gas Insurance Limited must 
reimburse these costs and include 8% simple interest, from the date Mr R paid this amount, 
to the date of settlement. They must also pay Mr R £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I uphold the complaint. I now 
require British Gas Insurance Limited to put matters right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman