DRN-2056072
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr B during a meeting at a Santander 
branch in February 2002. The policy was taken out in order to protect his mortgage monthly 
repayments if Mr B couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that Santander hadnt provided Mr B with 
all the information it shouldve done  in particular, it hadnt made Mr B aware that the policy 
offered him only limited benefit in his situation, given his medical condition. 
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
The policy provided cover for up to 12 months in the event of accident, sickness and 
unemployment. But I dont think Santander did enough to point out to Mr B a significant 
feature of the policy  specifically, the impact his existing health problems would have on the 
cover hed get under the policy. 
Under the terms of the policy, it wouldnt pay out for a disability claim in the following 
circumstances: 
oany condition Mr B had at the start date, or
oany condition Mr B had received treatment or advice for in the 12 months 
before the start date
Mr B told us that he had been diagnosed with a serious long term health condition in 2002. 
Its not in dispute that Mr B has been diagnosed with this condition.
Ive taken into account that Santander would like to see evidence to support what Mr B has 
told us about the date he was diagnosed with this condition.  
But, as this sale took place so long ago, I dont think its reasonable to expect Mr B to be 
able to provide evidence from 2001/2002 to back up what hes told us. I dont think theres 
any reason to doubt the information Mr B has now clarified and confirmed to us. So it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to disregard what hes told us about a pre-existing 
health condition he had when he signed up for this policy.
Mr B told us he was diagnosed around the time he re-mortgaged. When we asked for more 
information about this Mr B said it was just the week before the PPI was sold to him. He 
recalled hed been having symptoms for a few months by then. 
So I think its reasonable for me to assume that Mr B saw a doctor in the run up to the policy 
start date. This means Mr B was caught by the policy wording that excluded any condition 
hed received treatment or advice for in the previous 12 months. 
And the policy wording also excluded a condition Mr B had at the start date. So it seems 
unlikely to me that Mr B wouldve been able to make a sickness claim for any absence 
related to a condition it looks like he already had when he signed up for the policy. 
So I dont think it matters that Mr B hasnt been able to provide evidence of the date he was 
actually diagnosed that Santander would like to see.    
This was an advised sale. So the onus was on Santander to check if Mr B was likely to be 
caught by any policy limitation. I cant see how or if it did this. So it doesnt appear that 
Santander explained to Mr B that there was a risk he wouldnt be able to claim on the policy 
in all the circumstances Mr B might reasonably have expected.  
Mr B wouldve been able to claim for other benefits under the policy (and it looks like he did 
that). But I dont think its likely that Mr B wouldve wanted this PPI if hed realised he would 
be paying for a policy that offered him only limited benefits.
I think if Mr B had been aware that he wouldnt have been able to claim for any absence 
related to an existing health problem then he wouldnt have thought PPI provided good 
value. I say this because sickness cover was a significant part of the benefit Mr B bought. 
So Im upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr B in the position he wouldve been had he not taken out the policy. 
So, Santander should: 
Pay Mr B the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For these reasons I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr B as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman