DRN-2135090
The complaint
Mr M says Evergreen Finance London Limited (Evergreen), irresponsibly lent to him. Mr M 
says Evergreen didnt carry out sufficient checks to make sure the lending was affordable for 
him as he had borrowing with other short-term credit providers when he applied for the loan 
with Evergreen. 
What happened
This complaint is about one short-term loan Evergreen provided to Mr M in October 2018.  
Mr M borrowed £500 which was to be repaid over three months and the monthly repayment 
was £210.73.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought the loan shouldnt have been given as 
Evergreens own credit checks showed that Mr M had six other short-term lending accounts 
already running when he applied for the loan. They didnt think Mr M would be able to 
sustainably repay the lending. 
Evergreen disagreed. It said the checks it carried out were proportionate. It wouldnt review 
every line of a credit file given the nature of short-term lending and the early stage of the 
relationship.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Evergreen needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Evergreen should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Evergreen was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Evergreen has said that before it agreed to lend to Mr M it carried out an income and 
expenditure check, an affordability check as well as a credit reference check. For Mr Ms 
loan its recorded that he was employed and earning a monthly income of £2,400. His 
monthly expenses included housing costs and food etc were £1,875. This left Mr M with a 
monthly disposable income of £525 and the monthly repayment for the loan was £210.73. 
So, on the face of it the borrowing would seem affordable on a pounds and pence basis. 
But Evergreen has also provided us with a copy of a credit report it obtained at the point of 
Mr Ms loan application. And I think the information contained in that report would suggest  
Mr M was having problems managing his money. As explained by the adjudicator there were 
six other short-term loans already open (of which it looks like there were four unsecured 
loans, one advance again income and one home credit account). 19 accounts had been 
opened in the previous six months and 14 were still active. All of which indicates that Mr M 
was having problems managing his money and using other types of credit providers. And I 
also understand some loan applications had already been declined by Evergreen before it 
agreed to the loan Mr M eventually took.
Evergreen has told us it would be unrealistic to review every line of a credit file prior to 
lending. And particularly at the early stages of a borrowing relationship. But I disagree. 
Evergreen was already in receipt of that information about Mr Ms financial circumstances. 
And I think it should have used that information it was already in receipt of when considering 
whether it should lend to Mr M. The evidence given in that report suggested that Mr M was 
having problems managing his money and bearing in mind the number of other accounts he 
had, the lending looked unsustainable. 
So, Im upholding the complaint about the loan and Evergreen should put things right.
Putting things right  what Evergreen needs to dorefund all interest and charges Mr M paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Evergreen to take off tax from this interest. Evergreen 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Evergreen Finance London 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman