DRN-4363637
The complaint
A business, which Ill refer to as H, complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited has dealt with a claim it made on a commercial motor insurance policy. 
Mr N, the owner of H, brings the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that the case should 
not be upheld. I do so for the following reasons:
It is not the role of this service to decide who is at fault for an incident. We will 
however look at the information that was available to the insurer and check to see if 
they have dealt with the claim in a fair and reasonable way. 
In the initial call with Admiral, it notes record Mr N as saying he was reversing and 
there may have been slight contact with a motorbike. This is important as it means an 
incident did take place. Later in the claims process Mr N says he believes the third 
party turned their wheel into his vehicle, meaning that he was not responsible for the 
incident.  
The policy H has, contains a term which allows Admiral to take over a claim and deal 
with it as it sees fit. This is common across insurance policies. While wed usually like 
to see an insurer discuss its claims decision with a policyholder, this wont always be 
possible or appropriate, and importantly doesnt need to have a policyholders 
authority to settle a claim.
Insurers will make a claims decision, based on their experience of previous claims 
and ultimately whether they believe, more likely than not they would be able to 
successfully defend any action if the matter went to court. Or occasionally, they may 
settle a claim for commercial reasons as the cost of taking matters to court would 
outweigh the costs associated with the claim.
Given the initial description of the circumstances Mr N gave, the claim Admiral 
received from the third party as well as the evidence of the damage reported by the 
third party and injuries sustained, I think Admiral acted reasonably in settling the 
claim. 
I realise Mr N has very strong views about what happened, he thinks the losses 
claimed by the third party are fraudulent, and the damage to the bike, from it falling 
over, happened after the rider dismounted. I can see from the notes, Admiral 
considered this, as I would have expected it to, however it concluded the claim, more 
likely than not, was genuine. I dont think this was an unfair or unreasonable 
conclusion.
Having reviewed everything, I think Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably here, 
and in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Hs complaint against Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman