DRN-2992896
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the level of service shes received from RBS Collective Investment 
Funds Limited. Shes unhappy with contradictory correspondence shes received from them 
and the time its taken her to try and get the matter resolved.
What happened
Mrs H holds a junior ISA (JISA) with RBS. She says that in late 2019 she received a letter 
asking her to confirm the direct debit (DD) details relating to the JISA. As she was out of the 
country at the time, she contacted them by phone and confirmed the relevant details. She 
subsequently received a letter in January 2020 confirming that RBS had received the details 
for the DD.
She then received another letter from RBS in February 2020 stating they hadnt received the 
DD mandate theyd sent her in October 2019. Mrs H then complained to RBS about the 
standard of service shed received, the maladministration of the DD arrangements and the 
correspondence shed received in relation to the JISA.
RBS responded to her concerns and said, in summary:
Mrs H was requested to return the DD mandate as their terms were changing. The 
DD mandate served as confirmation that customers agreed to the changes and still 
wanted a DD in place.
The initial letter to Mrs H was issued in October 2019 and chaser letters were sent 
from November 2019 until February 2020 if they didnt receive contact to ensure 
customers were aware of the changes and no detriment was caused.
They also discussed concerns that they felt Mrs H had raised about calling them from 
overseas. 
Mrs H didnt accept their findings as she felt her complaint hadnt been properly investigated. 
She said, in summary:
RBS had failed to investigate her complaint properly. She hadnt raised concerns 
about being asked to complete and return the DD form. Her concerns were about the 
contradictory nature of the letters shed received and the possibility that payments 
hadnt been allocated to the JISA.
Shed been inconvenienced by having to investigate whether the DD payment was 
set up correctly and payments had reached the JISA.
RBS had also confused her complaint - she hadnt complained about contact 
numbers.
The investigator looked into her concerns but didnt think RBS needed to take any further 
action. She noted that there was a transfer of accounts from the former provider to RBS 
Collective in October 2019. Following this a letter was issued to all account holders to advise 
of the change and advised customers to confirm their DD details. She accepted that Mrs H 
confirmed her DD details over the phone, and this was confirmed by a letter in January 
2020.
But she thought that while the issue had caused Mrs H concern, she hadnt suffered any 
financial loss. She thought it was most likely that the February 2020 letter had been
issued automatically, at around the time Mrs H called the business. And this was why the 
letter was still sent out, despite Mrs H having called RBS. She thought that in the 
circumstances, Mrs H wasnt due any compensation. 
Mrs H didnt agree and said, in brief:
She hadnt sought compensation for financial loss, only for the inconvenience she 
suffered in terms of the time shed spent on the matter. 
She didnt think that a letter confirming specific account details could be superseded 
by a generic mailing.
The investigator wasnt minded to change her opinion so the case was been passed to me. I 
attempted to mediate with Mrs H and RBS in order to resolve the complaint. I wrote to RBS 
and asked them to reconsider the complaint, they did so and accepted that theyd caused 
Mrs H inconvenience. They offered her £25 in compensation, but she declined their offer. As 
theres been no agreement, I am now issuing a formal decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all the available evidence, I dont think its in dispute that RBS have caused 
Mrs H inconvenience. Its clear that she got in touch with them after receiving their letter 
regarding the DD, and provided the information they requested. She then received a letter 
from RBS confirming the DD instruction. However, they still sent a further letter the following 
month asking again for the details Mrs H had already confirmed.
I can understand that this may have caused Mrs H confusion. I would have expected RBS to 
clarify why the letter had been sent and provided Mrs H with the requested information after 
shed complained. But I cant see that their response answered her concerns. Their 
response didnt acknowledge that shed confirmed the details and had received a letter 
implying she hadnt done so - instead it explained why a DD mandate needed to be returned.
Mrs H then brought her complaint to this service and subsequently received a further 
response from RBS about her complaint, but again, the response didnt acknowledge her 
concerns and instead explained how shares were purchased for the JISA using the funds 
received by DD. 
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that RBS has acknowledged or 
apologised for Mrs H receiving a contradictory letter. I think this has then caused her 
inconvenience by having to complain and investigate if the DD was working properly. 
RBS have now accepted that theyve caused Mrs H inconvenience, and theyve now offered 
£25 in compensation. I appreciate that Mrs H has spent a fair amount of time writing letters 
and emails trying to resolve the issue, but having thought very carefully about the impact the 
issue has had on her, Im satisfied that the offer is fair and reasonable. Its in line with 
awards made by this service in comparable circumstances and its what Id have told RBS to 
pay. So, I wont be ordering them to pay any more.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, I wont be asking RBS Collective Investment Funds 
Limited to do any more, its now down to Mrs H to accept their offer of compensation if she 
wishes to.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman