DRN-1490655
Complaint 
Ms R complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to her in 2006. 
Background 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld in terms of the mis-sale. She 
thought the offer Capital One had made to refund some of the commission Ms R had paid on 
her premiums was a fair way to settle the complaint. Ms R disagreed with that view. She said 
that Capital One did not provide her with sufficient information about the cover and so she 
would not have known the intricacies of the insurance she was buying. 
As the parties are not in agreement with what our adjudicator said, the matter has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Ms R, but Im afraid I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
Ms R told us that she couldnt remember how PPI was sold to her. Ive had the benefit of 
seeing Capital Ones records that are available from the time. It seems likely to me that she 
completed her initial application online and was then sent a credit agreement. Ms R signed 
that agreement on 24 January 2006 and it was received by Capital One on 26 January 2006. 
So the first thing Ive considered is whether Ms R would have known the PPI cover was 
optional and that she didnt have to agree to it if she didnt want it. From the online 
application, I can see that Ms R selected that she wanted PPI. She selected that PPI again 
on her credit agreement by ticking a box which said I wish to purchase Optional Capital One 
Payment Protection Insurance. Ms Rs signature is set out underneath that box to confirm 
her selection. 
I think the wording on that form is sufficiently clear to indicate to Ms R that she could have 
refused the cover if she wanted to. 
Capital One also had to give Ms R enough information about the cover so she could decide 
for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. And I agree with both Ms R and our 
adjudicator that the information she was given could have been clearer. But that doesnt 
mean that her complaint should be automatically upheld. 
The next question I must ask myself is what she would have done differently if Capital One 
had told Ms R everything it should have done. To help me decide what Ms R is likely to have done, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also thought about what 
Ms R told us about her personal circumstances. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the policy, Ms Rs 10% of Ms Rs credit card 
balance would have been repaid for every month she was out of work up to a maximum of 
12 months. In her PPI questionnaire, Ms R told us that she couldnt remember how much 
sick pay she would have received from her job. But looking at how long shed been in her job 
at that time, I think its unlikely she would have received 12 months full pay if she was off 
sick. So the PPI most likely would have paid out for longer than her work benefits. Ms R also 
told us that she didnt have any other means of making repayments towards her credit card if 
she was out of work. 
I understand from her PPI questionnaire that Ms R was in good health when she bought this 
policy. And I havent seen anything unusual about her personal circumstances that would 
have stopped her from being able to make a successful claim if she needed to. 
Taking everything into account, I can see how PPI could have been helpful to Ms R if she 
lost her job. And as I set out above, I think Ms R chose to buy this policy. So it looks as 
though she wanted this type of cover at the time. With all of this in mind, I cant say Ms R 
would have acted differently even if Capital One had told her everything it should have done. 
I dont find that PPI was mis-sold. Having said that, Capital One paid back some of the cost 
of the PPI to Ms R because it got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told her about that. Because it didnt tell Ms R,  
that was unfair. To put that right, Capital One paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms R. 
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Ms R any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman