DRN-1998891
 
The complaint
Miss C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment
protection insurance policy (PPI) alongside a credit card which she took out in July 2003.
What happened
In June 2020 I issued my provisional decision. In it I explained why I wasnt intending to 
uphold this complaint.
An extract of my provisional decision is set out below and forms part of my final decision.
Miss C took out a credit card through the post. At the same time, she bought the PPI. This 
policy would have cost her £0.79 per every £100 of the outstanding monthly balance on her 
credit card. On a successful claim it would have paid 10% of that balance for up to 12 
months, if Miss C couldn't work through accident or sickness, or if she lost her job.
As the policy was taken through the post, I dont think a recommendation was made for the 
PPI. That meant that RBS didn't need to make sure it was a suitable policy for Miss Cs
circumstances, but it still did have to make sure it gave enough clear information so that
Miss C could make an informed choice about whether she wanted the policy or not.
Miss Cs complaint is that she didn't feel the PPI was optional, and she also felt pressure into
taking out the policy. So, Ive thought about whether RBS gave Miss C a fair choice about
buying the PPI. RBS has been able to provide a copy of the credit card application form. I
think this was an application made through the post and its likely Miss C completed her
details in her own time and at her own pace. There is a section about the PPI on the form
and Miss C has ticked next to the part which says Yes, please protect my repayments now.
I can also see that Miss C completed other optional sections and made her own choices 
about other types of insurance on the form. As Miss C completed her application, I think she 
would have likely read the form and understood what she was applying for. I also think she 
would have seen the PPI on her credit card statements, listed as a separate entry. So, if she 
didn't want the policy or had any questions about what this was, she could have questioned 
it at any time with RBS. I havent seen she has done this. Overall, I think she chose the 
policy knowing she could opt not to take it out.
Miss C has also mentioned she was pressured into taking the PPI. I have no doubt Miss C
has told me what she honestly remembers but I can see from her questionnaire to this
service that she couldn't remember all the details of the sale. This is understandable as so
many years have gone by since that time. But where the evidence is incomplete, I have to
make my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, I have to take into account, what is
more likely to have happened based on the evidence I do have, what the parties have told
me and taking into consideration anything we know about how this business sold these 
types of policies at the time. As I have explained, I think Miss C took out this policy through 
the post, and so I think it unlikely that she had a detailed conversation with anyone
from RBS. So, I cant say Miss C was likely pressured.
It's possible that RBS didn't give Miss C all the information she needed. But that alone is not 
enough for me to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether if Miss C had more
information, she might have made a different decision and decided not to take out the cover.
To help me decide, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy as well as Miss Cs
circumstances.
Miss C has told us in her questionnaire to this service that she had between six months and
twelve months savings. She also said she would have received between six and twelve
months sick pay from her employer.
Our adjudicator said that Miss C had enough cover, so she wouldn't have thought the policy
to be good value if shed had better information about the costs of the policy and the
benefits. After giving her view, RBS requested that Miss Cs position in relation to her sick
pay and saving were clarified. Ive thought carefully about what Miss C told us. In doing this I
thought about how long she was in her job and the type of work she did. I also asked Miss C
some further questions about her savings and her sick pay. I think Miss C probably would
have received around six months full sick pay from her employer. But in relation to her
savings Miss C was unable to clarify how much she had or give me any further details.
Ive considered carefully that this policy would have paid out for up to 12 months on a
successful claim, and so I still think the PPI would probably have been useful for Miss C. It
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay she received and most likely for longer than
her full sick pay lasted, and it would have allowed her to use any savings she had for other
important expenses. So, I cant say that Miss C would have changed her mind about buying
the policy even if shed been given clearer information.
Miss C was eligible for the policy and as she was in employment and didn't have any pre-
existing health conditions, I also dont think she would have been affected by any of the main
limitations and exclusions to the policy terms which might have made it more difficult to
make a successful claim.
Theres nothing to make me think this policy was unaffordable.
As things stand, I dont intend to find the PPI was mis-sold. For the reasons Ive given I dont 
think Miss C would likely have changed her mind about buying the policy even if shed been 
given better or clearer information.
And that means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss C because:
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Miss C about that. Because RBS didnt tell Miss C,
that was unfair.
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they wished me to 
consider before I made my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
RBS came back to me and said it had nothing further it wished to add, and Miss Cs 
representative didnt add anything either. So, I see no reason to depart from the findings set 
out in my provisional decision above.
Overall for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision and in this final decision I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Miss C any commission and
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman