DRN-3563608
The complaint
A complains that PrePay Technologies Limited t/a Counting Up failed to refund several
transactions that they didnt recognise from their account. A also complain a payment
was delayed and Counting Up were rude in their communications.
What happened
The background to this complaint has already been explained in some detail, but, for
completeness, Ill replicate the full provisional decision here which sets out the details of the
complaint and my initial thoughts on it.
A held an account with Counting Up and when they checked their mobile app they
noticed the account had almost been emptied overnight. A contacted Counting Up about
this who confirmed theyd registered a change on the account to allow another device to
have access to it.
A told Counting Up that they hadnt made any of these changes or transferred or spent
the funds from the account. Counting Up looked into what had happened and told A that
theyd sent emails notifying A about the change to the address that A had registered with
them. It was this email that allowed the changes to be made to the account. A said they
hadnt received them and couldnt find them within their email system.
Counting Up told A that in order for a payment to be made from the account, someone
would need access to As device and be able to receive a message to verify the transfer.
A confirmed to Counting Up that no one else had access to their device.
A told Counting Up that theyd received a message from them about a new payee that
was being set up and had clicked on a link to say no to this. Counting Up investigated
the issue and the next morning asked A to check that all their details were correct,
including the registered phone number. When A looked at their app, the phone number
had been changed from the one that A had originally registered with Counting Up. A
changed the number back and also changed the password on their email account on the
advice of Counting Up.
Counting Up contacted the banks responsible for receiving the transfers from As
account and secured £4,160.35 for eventual return to A. Counting Up declined to refund
the remaining money and told A they believed they were in breach of their terms and
conditions. This was because A had allowed their email address to be compromised,
which in turn allowed an unauthorised third party to gain access to the Counting Up app
and take over the account.
A told Counting Up that they werent aware their email had been compromised, they said
that the operator of the email had confirmed it hadnt been hacked and As own anti
intrusion software hadnt detected anything on their mobile phone that used the app.
Counting Up told A that if the email wasnt hacked, then the only other way to make the
transfers was to have access to the app on As mobile phone. A contacted Counting Up
a week or so after the original event and said someone was trying to register a new
device which wasnt them. Counting Up prevented any new devices for being registered
for a period of time.
A complained to Counting Up about the loss of their funds, how theyd been dealt with
and that there had been a delay when their funds were returned. A also believed that
Counting Ups systems had been breached. Counting Up didnt change their opinion and
declined to refund A, apart from returning the recovered funds. Counting Up held A liable
and said:
Unfortunately, we are not able to refund the remaining missing sums. This is
because Countingup is not liable for those transactions under 10.5.1 of our Terms
and Conditions and 10.6.
This is because once they gained access to your email address, a 3rd party was able
to access either your card details or your Countingup up app in order to set up the
app on their own device.
As such, either access to the card itself or to your device (and therefore, the
Countingup app) was not made secure, which constitutes gross negligence under
our Terms.
A was unhappy with how Counting Up had dealt with their losses and brought their
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked
into by one of our investigators who asked for evidence from both parties. A explained
that no one else had access to either their mobile phone or laptop, they were password
protected and had anti-intrusion software fitted. A said no one else had been told the
passwords to access these devices or the Counting Up app. A confirmed that no one
had approached them about their account or tried to obtain details about it. A confirmed
theyd received a text message from Counting Up about a new payee and had replied
no to this because they didnt recognise setting up any new payee. A confirmed theyd
notified the police about the fraud.
A later explained that prior to the transactions happening, theyd noticed an email
arriving in their inbox but then couldnt locate it. A said theyd received a message via a
popular messaging app that contained a video which had been briefly viewed but later
thought was unusual.
Counting Up provided a timeline of the events including their contact with A when they
were notified about the losses and details of the process needed to add a new device to
the account. Counting Up told A theyd sent an email to the registered address held for A
and because theyd received an appropriate response to it, which included details (last
four digits) from As Mastercard, theyd made changes to the account.
Counting Up explained that the transfers couldnt have happened without access to As
device and knowledge of the password. New bank transfers also triggered a text
message which needed to be verified before the transfers could happen. One of the
disputed payments was also made with As Mastercard details. Counting Up said these
details werent available in their app and could only be found on the physical card.
Counting Up explained theyd asked A to change their email account password and to
check their details on their Counting Up account. It was later found that the mobile
phone number had been changed.
Counting Up believed theyd acted appropriately when theyd dealt with A and recovered
their money in a timely manner.
Our investigator thought that A hadnt authorised the transactions and had been thevictim of a technical hack on his phone as a result of opening a video file which led to
the compromise of As Counting Up account. Our investigator didnt think that A had
been grossly negligent and upheld As complaint.
Counting Up disagreed with the investigators outcome and questioned the hack, they
hadnt seen any evidence of this and believed it was speculation. They didnt believe this
was the reason for the loss of As money, but they accepted that A .may not have
authorised the transactions.
Counting Up didnt think their position had been correctly represented because the
investigator had only relied on the gross negligence aspect of the Payment Service
Regulations and hadnt considered the terms and conditions used by Counting Up to
deny A the refund. Counting Up considered their terms and conditions went beyond
gross negligence. They said:
(The investigator) appears to focus their reasoning on gross negligence
over the correlation between Clause 10 of Counting Ltds Terms and
Conditions and 72 (1) of the Payment Services Regulations 2017
They continued to question how the Mastercard disputed transaction(s) could have
taken place because there was no explanation how the card details could have been
obtained by the fraudster. Counting Up asked for a further review of the complaint which
has been passed to me for a decision.
Ive issued two provisional decisions for this complaint, the first of which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main thrust of Counting Ups case is that A breached their terms and conditions. But
before I can consider that, I need to satisfy myself regarding the question of authorisation.
Authorisation
Counting Up said in their initial response to the Financial Ombudsman that A .may not
have authorised the transactions. In a later response they said it was unknown to them
if A authorised the transactions or not.
So, the question of authorisation hasnt yet been sufficiently considered. Ive previously
asked Counting Up for evidence of authentication related to all the disputed transactions
but have yet to receive a full response to this request.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations is the Payment Service Regulations 2017
(PSRs). The basic position is that Counting Up can hold A liable for the disputed payments if
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that they made them or authorised them.
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case I havent yet seen sufficient evidence
to satisfy myself that the transactions were authenticated. Without that evidence, that makes
it very difficult for me to say that they were authorised in the way the rules say.
Because A have denied authorising the disputed transactions and Counting Up have yet to
show they were properly authenticated, that would usually mean Counting Up are liable to
make a refund to A.Whilst I appreciate that Counting Up have focused on the fact that they believe A has been
grossly negligent in how these payments were made  it remains that the regulations here
explain that its for a payment service provider to prove that a payment transaction was
authenticated and accurately recorded. So, viewed purely on the basis of whether these
transactions were authorised, Id be thinking of upholding the disputed transaction aspect of
this complaint based on the lack of authentication data. This is relevant here, based on what
Ill go onto say about the basis for Counting Ups refusal to refund A.
Gross negligence
Counting Up have relied on their terms and conditions to deny A a refund. Essentially, they
make the case that because their terms and conditions go beyond gross negligence, A
have breached them because their email system was hacked.
Counting Ups terms state:
10.5 You will be liable for all unauthorised transactions that arise from the use
of a lost or stolen Card or Account security information or the misappropriation of the
Card if you fail to:
10.5.1 keep the Card and/or security features of the Card and Account
Safe
Counting Up argue that clause 10.5.1 allows them to deny A a refund because they believe
this term covers the circumstances of this complaint, i.e. that if As account was hacked
then this means it wasnt kept safe and therefore in breach of this term.
Counting Up have quoted parts of S 72 (1) of the Payment Service Regulations in their
submission, specifically:
72.(1) A payment service user to whom a payment instrument has been issued
must
(a)use the payment instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions
governing its issue and use;
(1) A payment service user to whom a payment instrument has been issued
must
(a) use the payment instrument in accordance with the terms and
conditions governing its issue and use
S 72 contains further parts, so Ive replicated the complete section here:
Obligations of the payment service user in relation to payment instruments and
personalised security credentials
72.(1) A payment service user to whom a payment instrument has been issued
must
(a)use the payment instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions governing its
issue and use; and
(b)notify the payment service provider in the agreed manner and without undue delay onbecoming aware of the loss, theft, misappropriation or unauthorised use of the payment
instrument.
(2) Paragraph (1)(a) applies only in relation to terms and conditions that are objective,
non-discriminatory and proportionate.
(3) The payment service user must take all reasonable steps to keep safe personalised
security credentials relating to a payment instrument or an account information service.
Whilst its accepted that account users must follow the terms and conditions governing the
use of a payment instrument (which includes the use of an app), those terms must be
objective, non-discriminatory and proportionate.
This is reinforced by the FCAs approach document Payment Services and Electronic
Money which says (8.175 on page 120):
The customer is obligated by the PSRs 2017 to abide by the terms and conditions for
the use of the payment instrument. A customer does not, however, need to abide by
any term unless it is objective, non-discriminatory and proportionate. We would
consider terms and conditions which, for example, require customers to open and
destroy a PIN notification immediately or which prohibit customers from writing down
or recording their PIN in any form not to be permitted.
The FCA expands on that in 8.179:
The PSRs 2017 also obligate the customer to take all reasonable steps to keep the
personalised security credentials relating to a payment instrument or an account
information service safe. This would include the PIN or password for the instrument
or other piece of information known only to the issuing PSP and the customer. It does
not include, for example, a credit card number itself, as this would be known to any
business where the card was used.
8.180 What constitutes reasonable steps will depend on the circumstances, but
PSPs must say what steps they expect customers to take in their pre-contract
disclosure information 
So here, Counting Ups use of beyond gross negligence to describe their terms and
conditions isnt something contained in the PSRs. The specific term they rely on is quite
generalised, but Im not persuaded their interpretation of this term and the wider regulations
and guidance has led to a fair outcome here.
In saying this, Ive considered that The FCA says:
we interpret gross negligence to be a higher than the standard negligence under
common law. The customer needs to have shown a very significant degree of
carelessness. (Payment Services and Electronic Money: Our Approach).
So, to prove that A were grossly negligent, Counting Up have to show that they acted in
such a way as to be so careless that they have met the above interpretation of this term. If a
third party was responsible for these disputed transactions without the knowledge of A, and
they (A) hadnt done anything to obviously facilitate that hack or had been legitimately
tricked into it, then I currently find it difficult to accept that it meets the definition.
I appreciate that the introduction of a possible hack through a message opened by A was a
surprise to Counting Up and Ive not seen any evidence that clearly supports this as thereason for how the account was compromised here. I cant say with any certainty what
happened at this point, but A have been consistent in their version of the events and cant
offer any explanation other than it wasnt them that carried out the transfers or used the card
to make a payment.
If Counting Up consider that A were grossly negligent, the PSRs require them to provide
supporting evidence to the payer (A) that demonstrates this:
S 75 (4) says:
If a payment service provider, including a payment initiation service provider where
appropriate, claims that a payer acted fraudulently or failed with intent or gross negligence to
comply with regulation 72, the payment service provider must provide supporting evidence to
the payer
So, what the regulations require is that Counting Up demonstrate to A with evidence, their
belief that they were grossly negligent. What appears to be the case here is that Counting
Up are relying on an absence of evidence to show that A were grossly negligent - because
of a non-specific compromise of As electronic systems. I think it would be difficult for
Counting Up to satisfy S75 on that basis. Put simply, gross negligence must be based on
something rather than nothing.
Ive looked at the basis on which Counting Up say that A has been grossly negligent here.
But for the reasons given above, Im not persuaded by their current argument as to why or
how A has been grossly negligent.
10.6 T&C
Counting Up also relied on this section of their terms to deny A any refund. Counting Up
werent specific about which parts of this section they were referring to as it covers aspects
of authorisation and app/device/information security, including the use of their card in an
Automated Teller Machine. So, as its unclear what they were referring to and Ive already
considered the issues of authorisation and gross negligence, I dont intend to comment
further about this. If Counting Up wish to clarify any points then Ill be happy to consider
them.
So, it falls to Counting Up to show the payments were either authorised by A or they were
grossly negligent. My current thinking is that because Counting Up havent demonstrated
that the payments were authenticated, Im intending to uphold this complaint on that basis.
But, if evidence is produced that demonstrates proper authentication, including the receipt of
the email verifying the new device, Ill then consider whether it was more likely than not that
A authorised the payments.
Security
System security is a feature of each partys positions whove both claimed their respective
systems were operating properly at the time. A stated that their email provider and anti
intrusion software reported their systems were working ok and Counting Up stated 
(Counting Up) did not partake, actively or passively, in the compromising of A's credentials.
So far, neither party have supplied evidence to support these claims which makes it difficult
for me to make any assessment about it.
The PSRs (S75) state it is for the payment service provider to prove that the payment
transaction was  not affected by a technical breakdown or some other deficiency in theservice provided by the payment service provider.
I dont think its unreasonable for Counting Up to demonstrate that their systems were
working properly as theyve specifically defended this aspect of the complaint and theres an
obligation under the PSRs to do so. I appreciate theres an element of proving a negative
here, but I think it would be helpful to see that their systems were operating properly at the
time of As loss.
Similarly, A havent yet provided evidence of their own claims about the security of their
systems (email integrity and phone security report), so I think in the interests of a fair and
reasonable outcome, evidence should be, where available, provided to support this.
Card payment data
Counting Up provided authentication data for one Mastercard transaction, which Ive had
chance to review. Counting Up have stated that the CVV (three-digit security number) would
have likely been required to make the transaction and that information is only available from
the physical card. Theres no evidence that the CVV was entered when the payment was
made, so Im not convinced this point is relevant.
Return of funds
A complained that the recovered funds took too long to be repaid into their account. I havent
seen evidence of how long this took but Counting Up supplied evidence that theyd
requested it and informed A that theyd chased it up. I appreciate that theres a link between
the companies, but its the responsibility of the receiving bank to return the funds and to an
extent, Counting Up have little control over this. From the evidence Ive been able to
consider, Im currently intending not to uphold this aspect of the complaint.
Counting Ups treatment of A
A also complained that Counting Up were rude when they communicated with them. Ive
read through all the correspondence between A and Counting Up that has been supplied by
both parties and couldnt see that theyd been rude to A. Counting Up responded to As
questions and chased up the receiving banks once A had notified them about the fraud. I
dont think the correspondence between them shows that Counting Up were rude to A and
Im currently thinking that I wont uphold this aspect of the complaint.
Summary
Because authentication hasnt been satisfactorily dealt with, Im currently intending to uphold
As complaint concerning the disputed transactions and to instruct Counting Up to refund
them with simple interest at 8% added from the date of loss to the date its repaid. Im
currently intending not to uphold the other aspects of the complaint. But, if the question of
authentication is satisfactorily answered, Ill then consider the broader question of
authorisation. Depending on the outcome of that, Ill then need to decide if gross negligence
is relevant to the outcome of the complaint.
I invited A and Counting Up to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me
to consider before issuing my final decision. A didnt respond and Counting Up provided
additional evidence concerning the operation of their systems and authentication data about
the disputed payments.
I then issued a second provisional based on receipt of the authentication data and 
addressed the issue of authorisation.Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As mentioned in my first provisional decision, I hadnt been able to assess the issue of
authorisation because evidence hadnt been provided at that point. Counting Up have since
sent me that evidence so I can now address this aspect of the complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that Counting Up can hold A liable for the disputed payments if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that they made them or authorised them.
Counting Up can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove A authorised
the transactions but Counting Up cannot say that the use of the card and banking app
conclusively proves that the payments were authorised.
This is in line with the FCAs position, as outlined in its document setting out its role under
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. The FCA says:
To avoid doubt, it is not sufficient for the PSP to assert that the customer must have
divulged the personalised security features of the payment instrument, and to effectively
require the customer to prove that he did not. The burden of proof lies with the PSP and if a
claim that a transaction is unauthorised is rejected, the rejection must be supported by
sufficient evidence to prove that the customer is guilty of fraud, gross negligence or
intentional breach and the reason for the rejection must be explained to the customer.
Unless Counting Up can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the
payment or to debit As account and any such transaction must be regarded as
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools
issued to A.
Because the transactions were properly authenticated by the payment tools issued to A, Im
satisfied that Counting Up had the appropriate instructions with which to carry out the
transactions. But, Ill now need to consider if sufficient evidence has been provided to show
that A consented to the transactions.
Part of the evidence supplied by Counting Up relates to three devices registered to As
account, including IP address data about them.
Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the
provider of the data services.
Counting Up have explained that in order to register a new device, an email is sent to the
registered address for the account and details from the Mastercard are required to be
entered to confirm the action. Counting Up have provided evidence that they sent emails to
As registered email address. The new device was registered because the correct process
was followed, including the details taken from the Mastercard. Once the new device was
registered, it was used to set up new payees and send funds to other accounts.
The details from the Mastercard arent contained in the app, so it would seem that access to
the physical card was required, or knowledge of the details contained on it plus access to As
email before the new device was registered. A have explained that their email account
provider confirmed that the account wasnt compromised, although A have also said there
was an email (from Counting Up) that later couldnt be found. Counting Up have alsosupplied evidence that their own systems were operating normally at the time of the disputed
transactions.
Data shows that three devices were registered to the account. A explained they only used
one device, but it wasnt responsible for setting up the new payees and transferring funds to
different bank accounts. A second device was used to complete all these steps, which again
needed specific security details known only to A. There was also a third device which was
briefly registered on the account but wasnt used to make any disputed transactions. A
confirmed they didnt pass security details to anyone else. So, its difficult to think of a
plausible scenario where an unauthorised third party could complete all the steps necessary
to register a new device/set up new payees and make several disputed transactions without
access to As email and knowledge of details known only to A.
A mentioned opening a video message via a messaging platform which our investigator
thought could be responsible for the later compromise of As account. Some evidence of a
general weakness in the messaging platform was produced which explained how such
compromises could work. But, theres no evidence of any compromise (hack) of As system,
which was backed up by their email providers confirmation. Of course, its possible that such
technical compromises of As systems could have taken place without it being evidenced,
but I dont think its the likely explanation.
In order to complete the registration of a new device, the Mastercard details would be
required which arent available on Counting Ups app  so its likely whoever set up the new
device had access to the Mastercard.
Ive also examined IP address data linked to the three devices using the app. As regular
device and the new device use the same broadband provider, although the bulk of activity
took place over different IP addresses. But, As regular device logged on from the same IP
address used by the new device. This took place the same day as the disputed transactions.
This would indicate that whoever made the disputed transactions did so from the same
location that A were also logged on from. It seems unlikely that an unidentified third party
would be using the same location as A on the day the disputed transactions were made.
Ive also considered the single disputed transaction that used the Mastercard. The user of
the card needed to either have the physical card or obtain the card number and other
relevant security details. A didnt lose the card and Ive already made a finding that I dont
think a technical hack was responsible for acquiring the details of it. I think that its more
likely than not that A were responsible for using the card or allowing someone else to use it.
So, taking everything into account, my current thinking is I think its more likely than not that
A were responsible for making these disputed transactions. Whilst Im sure A will disagree
with me, theres currently no plausible explanation how an unauthorised third party could
obtain access to As email system, acquire the Mastercard details from the card and use the
same IP address as A. Because Ive made a finding about authorisation, I dont currently
need to consider whether A breached their terms and conditions or the issue of gross
negligence.
I see no reason to change my first provisional decision regarding the other aspects of As
complaint.
My provisional decision
My current thinking is that I do not intend to uphold this complaint.I invited A and Counting Up to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. Counting Up didnt have anything further to add 
and A provided information concerning contact with his mobile phone supplier and 
comments about the IP address data. A also provided screenshots from his email provider 
relating to possible changes with their account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A provided an analysis of the IP data that Counting Up had supplied and information from 
their mobile phone and email supplier. A have argued that theres evidence of third parties 
attempting to access their mobile phone and email account. They also believe theres no 
evidence of matching IP address data.
Ive looked at the information A provided in relation to the information from their mobile 
phone and email provider, which consists of text messages dated after the disputed 
transactions took place. Both sets of texts relate to attempts to change information about 
their accounts. As mobile phone provider asks A to bring identity information in following 
their enquiry. It goes on to say that once identity has been confirmed  access to the 
account can be granted. A replied to the text stating that someone has been trying to 
impersonate them.
The text seems to indicate someone contacted the mobile phone supplier  but they werent 
able to gain any access to the account. This text is dated after the disputed transactions had 
already taken took place and also confirms that no one was able to access it because they 
couldnt satisfy the providers security requirements. 
Regarding the text from As email provider, this also relates to attempts to change 
information about the account, specifically the mobile phone number. This also happened 
after the disputed transactions had already taken place. 
So, whilst A may have been subject at some point to an attempt to gain access to their 
accounts, these attempts happened following the movement of the funds out of the account. 
If, as A state, that third parties were responsible for the disputed transactions, I cant think 
why they would then need to try to change details having already taken control of the 
account and emptied it?
Ive also considered the possibility that As mobile phone was successfully cloned. Its 
possible to take over someones mobile phone account and clone their device. But, that 
would likely only provide access to the number and not any other details contained on the 
original device. Whilst any texts sent to As device could be accessed by a cloned device, it 
doesnt explain how the account was accessed in the first place and details changed on the 
Counting Up account. Thats because an email sent to As email address would also need to 
be responded to  which is unlikely to be available on a cloned device, so I dont think this 
is the explanation for how the disputed transactions were made.
A couldnt identify where IP address data was matching  but in the audit data provided by 
Counting Up for the 29/08/19 it says:
2019-08-29T10:21:04.000Z 213.205.240.135 D5824205-CC14-40BB-969A-4283641BF8BB2019-08-29T16:24:54.000Z 213.205.240.231 59865c39-ec54-4020-9586-f9abc0647632
As usual device ends in .7632 and the device used to make the transactions ends with 
F8BB. What this data shows is that both devices were present using the same IP address 
on the same day. The first three sets of numbers  here 213.205.240 relate to the location 
data and the last three ( 135/231 ) relate to the different devices used to connect to the 
internet services. So, the evidence points to the same IP address being used by both 
devices on the same day  something which Ive already covered in my second provisional 
decision.
A's position is that unknown third parties breached their security and were responsible for 
the disputed transactions, but the evidence Ive examined leads me to the objective 
conclusion that I think A were more likely than not responsible making these transactions or 
allowing someone else to do it with their authority. Whilst A have provided evidence of 
contact with their mobile phone & email provider from unknown third parties- the activity took 
place some days after the disputed transactions had already taken place. Theres no 
evidence that explains how someone could obtain access to As emails before the disputed 
transactions took place, identify the debit card details to confirm payments and be using the 
same IP address on the day of the disputed transactions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman