DRN-3659911
The complaint
Mrs C complains that PSA Finance UK Limited rejected her request to change her payment 
due date.
What happened
In February 2022 Mrs C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with PSA.
During the sales process, Mrs C told the dealership that she wanted payments to be taken 
on the first day of each month. Mrs C says the dealership advised her that she would be able 
to contact PSA after taking out the agreement and change the payment date to meet her 
requirements.
Mrs C signed the agreement on 10 February 2022 and thought her first payment would be 
taken on 1 March 2022.
The payment wasnt taken on 1 March 2022. Mrs C contacted PSA, who advised her that it 
wasnt possible to change the payment date to the first of the month.
Mrs C raised a complaint with PSA. In its final response, PSA rejected the complaint. It said 
it hadnt been party to the discussions between Mrs C and the dealership and said that the 
agreement made it clear that the payment date could only be changed within the terms and 
conditions of the agreement.
Mrs C remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think that the criteria for 
misrepresentation had been met and aid the terms and conditions of the agreement made it 
clear that the monthly payment was due on the same date as the first payment.
Mrs C didnt agree. She said if it had been made clear to her by the dealership that the 
payment date couldnt be changed to the first of each month, she wouldve kept her old car 
for a bit longer and delayed entering into the agreement for the new car, which wouldve 
enabled her to change the payment date under the agreement to the date she wanted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant to this complaint. Under section 56 
this service can consider complaints about what was said before the agreement was entered 
into. I can consider a complaint about misrepresentation during any negotiations before the 
agreement was entered into if the dealership was acting as agent of PSA. In this case, the 
dealership was acting on behalf of PSA in arranging the hire purchase agreement. So, Im 
satisfied that section 56 applies, and that PSA can be liable for any misrepresentation made 
by the dealership during the course of negotiations before the agreement was signed.
In order to make a finding that there was a misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied 
that there was a false statement of fact, on which Mrs C relied, and that she only entered 
into the agreement because of her reliance on this statement.
The conversations between Mrs C and the dealership were oral. No statement has been 
made available from the dealership. Because I wasnt present, I cant be certain of exactly 
what was said. So, Ive had to consider what Mrs C has told this service, as well as the 
documentation signed at the time.
Mrs C says she specifically told the dealership that she wanted her direct debit payment to 
be taken on the first day of every month. She says this was important to her so that she 
could manage her finances. Mrs C says she was told by the dealership that this wouldnt be 
an issue, and that she would be able to change her payment date to her preferred date.
Ive looked at the Adequate Explanation which Mrs C signed. This states that the first 
payment is payable one month after the date of the agreement. The Adequate Explanation 
also states that if you dont think this Agreement suits you then please do not sign it.. I can 
see that Mrs C signed the Adequate Explanation on 10 February 2022.
Ive also looked at the Agreement. This states that the first payment is payable one month 
after the date of the agreement. It also states that your monthly payment is due every month 
on the same date as your first payment. I can see that Mrs C signed the Agreement on 10 
February 2022. 
Having considered all of the information provided, Im not satisfied, on balance, that theres 
enough evidence to support what Mrs C has said about a false statement of fact having 
been made to her during the pre-agreement discussions. In reaching this conclusion, Im 
persuaded that the documents signed by Mrs C precluded her from thinking that the 
payment date could be changed. Neither of the documents signed by Mrs C say that the 
payment date can be changed. So if Mrs C wasnt happy to make her first payment one 
month after signing the agreement, and on the same date each month thereafter, I dont 
think she would have signed the agreement.
Mrs C has said that if shed been given the correct information, then she wouldve delayed 
entering the agreement. Ive looked at the information provided by Mrs C and I can see that 
she couldve kept her old car for longer. However, even with that being the case, Im not 
persuaded that Mrs C was given incorrect advice. The documents she signed at the 
dealership both state very clearly that payment is due one month after signing, and on the 
same date each month thereafter.
For the reasons Ive given, Im not persuaded that there has been a misrepresentation here. 
Ive gone on to consider whether PSA has acted fairly and reasonably.
On the inception date of the agreement, PSA wrote to Mrs C advising her that her payments 
would be due on the 10th of each month and offered her the choice to move the payment due 
date by a maximum of 15 days. I appreciate that this didnt allow Mrs C to pay on the first of 
each month, however, I think PSA has acted fairly and reasonably by offering this solution.
Taking everything into account, Im not asking PSA to do anything further here, because I 
dont think it has made an error or treated Mrs C unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman