DRN-3504985
The complaint
Mr S says after a broadband and phone provider unfairly charged him Lloyds Bank PLC 
failed to reclaim the payment under the direct debit guarantee.
What happened
Mr S asked Lloyds to refund a direct debit payment due to a service failure from a telecoms 
supplier. Lloyds did this on 7 December 2021, pending further investigation. Lloyds then re-
debited the payment on 9 December 2021 as it found no evidence of bank error. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said to make a successful claim under 
the Direct Debit Indemnity there are a specific set of circumstances that must be met. And 
Mr Ss claim did not meet these criteria. So Lloyds made no error when it re-debited the 
payment.
Mr S disagreed with this assessment. He said the telecoms supplier did not provide the 
service it should have, and the bank has failed to remedy this using the direct debit 
guarantee. He asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S is unhappy that the telecoms supplier did not provide the service it was contracted to. 
But lack of service is not a valid claim under the Direct Debit Indemnity terms. The 
investigator shared a link giving more information on the scheme and its terms so I will not 
repeat them here. 
But broadly speaking the scheme exists to deal with errors in the payment of direct debits by 
either the bank/building society or the merchant/service provider. And that is not what 
happened here, so it means there was no route for Lloyds to successfully secure a refund of 
the direct debt payment. 
It follows I cannot find Lloyds did anything wrong when it re-debited the payment after 
investigating Mr Ss claim.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman