DRN-4406835
The complaint
Mrs E has complained about the advice provided by Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited trading as Sun Life Financial of Canada (Sun Life) to purchase a Free 
Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution pension scheme (FSAVC) rather than take up 
one of the in-house options provided by her employer. 
Mrs E is being represented in this complaint however for ease of reference I have referred to 
Mrs E throughout the commentary below.
What happened
In 1997, following advice from Sun Life, Mrs E commenced a FSAVC policy. The advice file 
from October 1997 shows that: 
Mrs E was aged 28 with annual income of £16,000. Monthly income of £950 with 
expenditure of £760 gave residual income of £190 each month. 
No debts or dependents were noted. 
Mrs E had been a member of her employers occupational defined benefit (DB) pension 
scheme since August 1994 and had an intended retirement age of 60.
Mrs Es attitude to risk (ATR) was assessed as 5. The premiums were to be invested into 
the Managed Fund to match this ATR.
The regular premium to be paid was confirmed as £77 gross (£59.29 net).
The notes completed at the time stated that Having seen and compared the In House 
A.V.C. and the Free Standing A.V.C. you have elected to effect the Free Standing A.V.C. 
at this time, as the FSAVC offered flexibility, absence of employer control, possibility of 
funding for early retirement, and portability should employment change. You are aware 
that invariably, the in house AVC has a lower charging structure, and ease of 
administration. You are also aware that this plan is unit linked and that the value of units 
within can fall as well as rise, and of the automatic increase option incorporated within 
the plan, which allows to increase premiums annually by either the average earnings 
index or 10%, whichever is the lower.
The product illustration produced at the time of advice showed the benefits that may be 
available at retirement. This illustration assumed growth rates of 6%, 9% and 12% annually 
over the 31 years 7 months until Mrs E reached age 60. Also identified in this document 
were the charges applied to this plan and the effect these would have on the possible fund 
value in years 1-5.
In 2001, without further advice from Sun Life, Mrs E chose to reduce her premium to £39 per 
month.
In 2006, following a relocation to France, Mrs E chose to cease making payments into the 
plan and made the policy paid-up.
Having concluded that the advice initially received may have been unsuitable, and with the 
help of her representatives, Mrs E complained to Sun Life in March 2021.
Sun Life issued their response to the complaint on 25 August 2021. Within this they noted 
the rules in 1997, when the advice was given, required their adviser to make sure that:
There must be clear evidence in the Profile/Reasons Why letter that the generic 
differences between the FSAVCs and the various in-house options were discussed. This 
discussion must be outlined in the Profile/Reasons Why letter.
A clear reason for not recommending the in-house option should be given.
It is not acceptable to state the benefits of the FSAVC without a comparison of the 
alternative products.
Given the above, and having assessed the paperwork available, Sun Life concluded that 
they had done what was required of them, the advice was suitable, and as such the 
complaint was not upheld.
Disagreeing with the response issued by Sun Life, Mrs E forwarded her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into things but did not believe the advice provided in 1997 was 
unsuitable.
Mrs E did not agree. In response to the findings, it was noted that her (now) husband (then 
partner) had also been advised to purchase an FSAVC scheme by Sun Life in 1994. Further 
advice had been given on this FSAVC in 1996 and 1997.
Sun Life had accepted the 1994 advice given to Mr E was unsuitable and concluded Mr E 
would have bought additional years within his occupational DB scheme instead. Had this 
occurred, Mrs E suggested that Mr Es subsequent 1996 and 1997 advice would not have 
been needed, and therefore her 1997 advice would also never have occurred, as it was 
through Mr E that she came to speak to the Sun Life adviser.
Finally, Mrs E noted that the information within her advice documentation about the in-house 
AVC options was generic and not sufficiently detailed.
Our investigator was not minded to change their findings. The investigator noted our process 
is to consider each case on its own merits and stated that the advice documentation 
covering Mrs E was clear that she had been given advice as an individual. Given this, the 
advice previously given to Mr E was not considered a reason to alter the outcome reached. 
Regarding the information included about the in-house AVC options, the investigator re-
stated their opinion that Sun Life had met their regulatory obligations.
Mrs E still did not agree. It was detailed that whilst the advice file noted she was single at the 
time it also noted the same adviser details with the address recorded being the same for 
Mr E and Mrs E. It was repeated that had Mr E been given suitable advice in 1994, then her 
1997 appointment with Sun Life would most likely never have occurred.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me.I issued a provisional decision which stated:
I would firstly like to state my opinion on the points made by Mrs E and her representative 
on Mr Es advice and its impact on the advice given to Mrs E. Regarding this point, I agree 
with the stance taken by our investigator.
I accept that that advice was given by the same adviser, and that in 1997 both Mr E and 
Mrs E were living at the same address. However, the personal profile document was 
completed for Mrs E as an individual. Advice was given based on her sole circumstances 
and her sole needs and objectives.
Whilst the advice given to Mr E in 1994 has been accepted as unsuitable, this does not 
automatically mean the advice given to Mrs E was unsuitable as well.
Additionally, I would note here that if the argument put forward by Mrs E and her 
representatives were accepted, a possible future chain of events would include Mrs E 
making no further pension provision at all.
If in 1994 Mr E had purchased added years, the 1996 and 1997 appointments may never 
have occurred, from there it creates the possibility that no meeting between Mrs E and Sun 
Life would ever have occurred, Mrs E would therefore never have potentially been referred 
to her employer to discuss in-house options, and as such may never have increased her 
pension provision at all. As such, rather than any comparison with in-house options, the 
FSAVC would need to be unwound entirely  as though it had never occurred. However, as 
above, I have rejected this argument and have agreed with our investigators stance on this 
point.
Our investigator was correct to note that we treat each case on its own merits and as such 
the purpose of this decision is to clarify if the advice given to Mrs E  as the person who 
received advice as an individual, and who made her own decision on that advice based on 
the information provided to her at that time by Sun Life  was suitable or not.
Given the above, I have gone on to consider the suitability of the advice given to Mrs E.
Here, I disagree with the outcome reached by our investigator.
The adviser in this case was a tied adviser  one which could only recommend products 
provided by their employer  Sun Life in this case. In 1997 the relevant regulatory guidance 
(the May 1996 Regulatory Update 20) stated that tied advisers should:
draw the clients attention to the in-house alternative.
discuss the generic differences between the two routes (taking account, among other 
things, of the features described in this article); and
direct the client to his employer, or to the OPS, for more information on the in-house 
option.
I have fully considered the content of the advice file and the statement included which states:
Having seen and compared the In House A V C and the Free Standing A.V.C. you have 
elected to effect the Free Standing A.V.C. at this time, as the FSAVC offered flexibility, 
absence of employer control, possibility of funding for early retirement, and portability should 
employment change. You are aware that invariably, the in house AVC has a lower charging 
structure, and ease of administration.However, I do not consider this to be sufficient. Whilst I accept that this statement shows 
Mrs E was made aware of the likely lower charges incurred with the AVC scheme, the 
reasons documented by the adviser as to why Mrs E was willing to accept this raise 
concerns about how these options were discussed.
Firstly, in dealing with the flexibility offered by the FSAVC scheme, whilst I appreciate that 
premiums can be altered at any time within such a scheme, the premiums within the AVC 
scheme could also be amended periodically as well. I would also note that the charging 
structure of the FSAVC scheme makes this inflexible, with the charges being weighted 
towards the early years, making it poor value if premiums are reduced or stopped shortly 
after policy commencement.
Absence of employer control is also noted as a justification for the higher charges however 
there is no detail on what control Mrs E was looking to avoid. The monies held within the 
occupational DB scheme were not controlled by Mrs Es employer (the Local Authority)  
rather pension trustees were tasked with running the pension fund for the benefit of 
members. Whilst there would have been an element of separation between the FSAVC 
policy and the Mrs Es employer, Sun Life would still have had to inform the occupational DB 
scheme that Mrs E had commenced the FSAVC scheme.
I also do not place much weight on the possibility of early retirement being a key driver for 
accepting the higher charges. Increased pension provision generally could be used to allow 
someone to retire earlier, however this would apply equally to the in-house AVC or added 
years options available. In 1997 the FSAVC itself would provide benefits that would have to 
have been taken at the same time as Mrs E took benefits from her main occupational DB 
scheme, and as such provided no additional flexibility in relation to early access.
Finally, I note portability was given as a reason for accepted the higher charges of the 
FSAVC scheme. However, I can see no evidence within the file that Mrs E was considering 
a career change. Mrs E was a teacher, an occupation which takes a significant amount of 
time to qualify in, and as such is often an occupation people stay in for their entire career. 
Even if a teacher relocates within the UK, and moves between schools, it is likely that 
membership of the teachers pension scheme could continue.
Overall, I consider the reasons given within the file documenting why Mrs E was willing to 
pay higher charges for the FSAVC scheme to be weak and generic. As such, this raises 
concerns about how the benefits of the FSAVC policy were explained to Mrs E before the 
recommendation was accepted. As such I have concluded that Mrs E was not put into a fully 
informed position regarding the FSAVC scheme, I believe had this been done in 1997, Mrs E 
would have taken an alternative course of action and chosen to contribute to one of her 
available in-house options.
Given the above conclusion I have gone on to consider whether Mrs E would have 
contributed to her in-house AVC scheme or opted to purchase added years within the DB 
scheme.
Overall, I have concluded that Mrs E would have opted to contribute to the in-house AVC 
scheme rather than purchase added years through the occupational DB scheme.
Here I would like to note that it is impossible for me to know exactly what Mrs E would have 
done in 1997 had alternative information been given to her by Sun Life. As such my decision 
is based on what I consider most likely based on the evidence available and the principles of 
reasonableness and fairness. To be clear, my decision is based on what Mrs E (receiving 
advice as an individual) would have chosen in 1997. As I have clarified above, I do not 
consider the outcome of Mr Es separate issues with Sun Life to be relevant here.I have carefully considered that at the time of advice Mrs E was young, was well established 
in her teaching career, had available headroom within her DB scheme, and was working 
within a profession which many people stay in for their entire working lives. All these factors 
support the conclusion that Mrs would have chosen the added years option available.
However, whilst there is no evidence of the actual cost of the added years option, my own 
research, and some commentary from Sun Life on the file, does indicate that the purchase of 
an added year within the DB scheme would have cost materially more than the £77 premium 
Mrs E agreed to. 
Whilst purchasing one normal year within the occupational scheme cost Mrs E 6% of her 
gross income each year, added years do not benefit from any additional employer 
contribution with the entire cost of any added years falling to Mrs E.
Whilst Mrs E had a disposable income of £190 each month there is no evidence that Mrs E 
would have been willing to contribute a higher premium to purchase even one added year 
within the DB scheme. I have also noted commentary within the file showing Mrs E was 
potentially looking to purchase a house in the near future. With changes to personal 
circumstances possible in the near future, it is reasonable to conclude Mrs E gave significant 
thought to her contribution level in 1997.
In addition to this, the added years option would also have looked expensive when 
compared to the projected growth rates shown for the in-house AVC scheme. As per the 
illustration issued for the FSAVC scheme, projected growth rates of 6%, 9% and 12% were 
standard at that time. Whilst recent investment returns and annuity rates have made DB 
pensions look extremely attractive, I must consider the circumstances Mrs E would have 
faced in 1997. At that time investment returns and annuity rates were much higher than they 
are now, with the lower charges of the in-house AVC scheme making high investment 
returns look even more achievable.
The 1997 file also shows that Mrs E was willing to take a medium level of risk in order to 
achieve her retirement goals, a level of risk that could support the choice of AVC scheme 
over the added years option. Whilst there is no evidence of any other investment experience, 
I do not consider a medium level of risk inappropriate. The premiums would be invested over 
an extended timeframe and run alongside the guaranteed benefits being built up within the 
standard occupational DB scheme.
There were also differences between the ancillary benefits provided by the added years and 
AVC options that Mrs E would have had to consider. Added years would have increased the 
future spousal and dependants benefits available under the DB scheme. Whilst the file 
shows Mrs E was recorded as single in 1997, these circumstances may have changed over 
time and as such these benefits must be considered. However, I believe these points would 
have been of secondary importance to Mrs E, with primary focus on ensuring her own 
retirement benefits were maximised.
Overall, given the comparative cost of the added years option, and the high investment 
returns that would have been anticipated with the AVC scheme, I have concluded it is the 
AVC scheme which would have been chosen and as such this should form the basis for the 
redress calculation.
I asked all parties to provide any additional commentary or evidence they wanted taken into 
consideration by 17 October 2023.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sun Life have provided no further evidence or commentary in relation to the provisional 
decision issued.
Whilst Mrs E accepted the amended outcome and confirmation the advice was considered 
unsuitable, the method of redress has been challenged with additional commentary 
submitted asking for this to be re-considered with the FSVC redressed as though added 
years would have been purchased rather than the in-house A.V.C.
The arguments made in support of this again look to link the advice given to Mrs E in 1997 to 
the previous advice given to Mr E in 1994. I have already commented on this in the 
provisional decision above and as such do not intend to repeat this here, however I remain 
of the opinion that Mrs E received advice in her own right, based on her own circumstances 
and objectives.
It has been noted that the personal profile was only completed for Mrs E as an individual 
because a pension can only be held in one name. However, the profile completed also had 
sections relating to savings accounts, investments, mortgages, and life insurance products, 
all of which can be held jointly. As such if joint planning was required a joint profile could 
have been completed.
I remain of the opinion that the individual personal profile supports the fact that Mrs E was 
receiving advice in her own right, based on her sole requirements at that time. I do not 
consider it reasonable to conclude that Mrs E would simply have done whatever Mr E had 
previously done. The fact that Mrs Es decision making specifically related to her own 
requirements is supported by the fact that when beneficiaries for the FSAVC scheme were 
named, it was other relatives and not Mr E who were nominated.
Whilst the advice given to Mr E was deemed unsuitable, with redress based on an added 
years comparison I would additionally note that this was not a decision reached by this 
service. The unsuitability of the advice and method redress had already been agreed 
between Mr E and Sun Life, with our investigation focussed on what date the redress 
calculation should be stopped. As such I do not consider the decision here to contradict that 
in Mr Es case  the issues considered by the service in each case are different. 
Finally, it was noted that whilst Mrs E could not have afforded cost of purchasing the full five 
additional years available, one added year would have cost 0.61% of gross income. Whilst 
the exact numbers are not on file, it is clear Mrs E did not have the disposable income 
necessary to purchase all the added years available, with the 0.61% of gross salary required 
to purchase one added year equating to £97.60 per month. 
However, whilst this premium was within monthly disposable income, as I noted in the 
provisional decision above, I believe the file supports the fact that considerable consideration 
was given to the initial premium at the time of advice.
There is no evidence Mrs E would have been willing to contribute a higher premium with 
commentary on file confirming there were material changes to Mrs Es circumstances 
possible in the near future.
As such, when faced with a decision between a higher monthly contribution to purchase only 
one of the five available added years, and the in-house AVC scheme with low charges and high expected growth rates that matched Mrs Es ATR, I remain of the opinion that it is the 
in-house AVC scheme that would have been chosen.
As such the redress instructions below remain unchanged from those issued in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited trading as Sun Life Financial of 
Canada (Sun Life) should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators 
FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data 
for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So, where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Sun Life should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Es pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint and require Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) 
Limited trading as Sun Life Financial of Canada to calculate and pay redress in line with the 
instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman