DRN-4346105
Complaint
Mr B has complained about a loan Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (trading as Novuna 
Personal Finance) provided to him. He says he believes proper affordability checks werent 
carried out when he applied for his loan.
Background
Novuna provided Mr B with a loan for £5,000.00 in June 2022. The total amount to be repaid 
of £6,539.52, which included interest, fees and charges of £1,539.52, was due to be repaid 
in 24 monthly instalments of around £270. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr B and Novuna had told us. And she thought that 
Novuna hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. So she didnt recommend that 
Mr Bs complaint be upheld. Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint.
Novuna needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Novuna needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr B 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a bit more detail.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Novuna provided Mr B with a loan for £5,000.00 in June 2022. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 24 instalments of around £270. Novuna says it agreed to Mr Bs application after he 
provided details of his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. 
It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out and 
information on how much Mr B received into his bank account each month. And all of this 
information showed Mr B could to comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr B has said the loan was unaffordable.
The first thing for me to say is that Novuna did carry out credit searches. And Novunas 
searches appear to show that Mr B did have some previous difficulties with credit. But Mr Bs 
I understand that Mr Bs exiting commitments at the time were relatively well maintained.         
Mr Bs debt total at the time of the application also appears to have been reasonable in 
comparison to his income. 
Equally, as this was Mr Bs first loan with Novuna, Im satisfied that it was reasonably entitled 
to believe that it wouldnt be increasing Mr Bs existing indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
I accept that Mr B might have had difficulty making the payments. And Im sorry to hear that. 
Having looked at Mr B bank statements, I have an idea what was going on at the time. But 
given obtaining bank statements wasnt the only way further checks into Mr Bs 
circumstances further enquiries into Mr Bs circumstances could have been carried out, Im 
not persuaded that further checks would necessarily have highlighted the reasons why Mr B 
might not have been able to make the repayments on this loan. 
In fact when Mr Bs actual living costs are added to what Novuna saw about the credit 
commitments in his name, he does appear to have had the funds required to make the 
monthly payments required. As this is the case, I dont think that Novuna did anything wrong 
when deciding to lend to  Mr B. And Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr B. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like to remind Novuna of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect on the outstanding 
balance on Mr Bs loan and it be the case that he is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman