DRN-3070435
The complaint
Mr A complains that the advice given by Central Markets Investment Management Limited
(CMIM) in relation to a Small Self Administered Scheme (SSAS) and the investment of his
pension into a Cape Verde hotel development of The Resort Group (TRG) was unsuitable
for him.
What happened
In 2013, Mr A says he was cold-called and offered a review of his existing pension 
provisions. It seems this would have been Your Choice Pensions Limited (YCP), which was 
an unregulated firm. 
Mr A was 41 and only had one pension policy with Royal London worth of £33,689.15. He 
had no other savings or investments and no previous investment experience. He had an 
outstanding mortgage of £90,000.
He was given information about an oversea property investment with TRG to be made
through a SSAS. Mr A says he was persuaded by YCP this would provide better returns
than his existing pension which he was told had not been performing well.
The SSAS was set up with Mr A as the trustee and Cantwell Grove (CW) as the
administrator.
Mr A signed CMIMs terms of business in October 2013 which confirmed that CMIM would
provide him, in his capacity as trustee of the SSAS, with a letter of advice in relation to the
TRG investment for the purposes of section 36 of the Pensions Act 1995 (PA95).
For reference, section 36 of PA95 requires trustees of an occupational pension scheme
such as a SSAS to obtain and consider written advice on the question whether the
investment is satisfactory having regard to the requirements of regulations under subsection
(1), so far as relating to the suitability of investments. s.36 also warns that the advice
required under this section may constitute the carrying on of a regulated activity under the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).
The terms of business clarified that:
CMIM was a regulated firm, but that the service it would provide was not regulated,
as it related to an unregulated investment.
It was providing the service to trustees of a SSAS.
No advice was being given on investments regulated under s.22 of FSMA and other
than the Cape Verde investment.
No individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your personal financial
circumstances was being given.
Mr A also completed an indicative investment form (undated) which showed his intention 
was to invest 59.75% into TRG and 37.3% through CMIM.
Mr As pension transfer value of £33,689.15 was paid into the SSAS bank account in 
January 2014. Bank statements show that in February 2014 £20,650 was invested into the 
TRG investment and £10,939.15 was paid to CMIMs DFM arrangement.
In 2015, Mr A instructed CG to invest £11,521.84 into a DFM portfolio with Organic,
managed by Gallium Fund Solutions. Organic has since gone into liquidation. 
In 2019 Mr A complained to CMIM about the advice he received. He said the SSAS and
the TRG investment, which is now illiquid- had been unsuitable. The SSAS was only
established to allow the TRG investment.
CMIM rejected the complaint. They said their advice was appropriate and compliant with
PA95. They said they made it very clear in their advice letter that the TRG investment was
not suitable for a cautious investor and provided risk warnings as well as pointing out the
need for diversification of investments. The decision to invest was down to the trustee.
Mr A referred his complaint to this service and one of our investigators upheld his
complaint. CMIM disagreed and responded in detail on this complaint as well as by way of 
letters covering several complaints simultaneously. Ive considered all their submissions 
even though I wont repeat them in detail here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CMIMs advice process
CMIM confirmed that they had an introducer agreement with YCP. They say they were first
approached by YCP in mid-2013 and knew customers were in the process of establishing
SSASs to invest in TRG. CMIM say their only financial benefit was the opportunity to
promote their DFM service for the residual funds.
CMIMs written advice took the form of a Dear trustee letter, which was general in nature
and not addressed to a named recipient. These letters were provided to customers through
CG and YCP. 
CG then provided customers with an investment instruction form which they had to sign and 
in which they confirmed the following:
Prior to issuing this letter I have obtained and considered the advice letter Central Markets
Investment Management Limited has produced in relation to the Cape Verde investment
opportunity. I believe Central Markets Investment Management Limited to be an
appropriately qualified advisor for the purposes of section 36 of the Pensions Act 1995, in
relation to the question of whether that investment opportunity is satisfactory in terms of:
(a) its suitability as an investment in the SSAS; and
(b) the need for diversification, in so far as is appropriate to the circumstances of the
SSAS.
Mr A does not have a copy of the Dear Trustee letter or the investment instruction form and 
neither were they provided to us by CG. However, CMIM did provide a template of the Dear 
Trustee letter which they acknowledge was passed to YCP and CG to provide to customers 
intending to invest in TRG. And Ive seen the investment instruction form on other cases like 
this. Given that Mr A as the trustee of a SSAS was required by section 36 of PA95 to obtain and consider advice in relation to his investments in the SSAS and this seems to have been 
the general paperwork used in these cases at the relevant time, I think its more likely than 
not that Mr A received the same forms and letters.
The Dear Trustee letter explained that YCP had asked CMIM to consider a number of
specific investments and provide advice to customers as the trustees as to whether these
investments were appropriate for their SSAS. It said the advice wasnt deemed to be
regulated under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as the SSAS was not
regulated by the FCA. It said:
We have researched the commercial property investment, The Resort Group, the hotel
operator (Melia Hotels International), and the wider aspects of ownership and security; and
our conclusion is that it is an appropriate investment albeit when considered in the light of
sensible diversification of a portfolio of an investor's overall wealth and that an effective "exit"
strategy is planned in order to coincide with the needs of the investor. The Resort Group
have cooperated with our research.
The investment is not suitable for a cautious investor who needs the protection of the UK
investor compensation and regulatory environment, as both a SSAS and the overseas
investment have no such regulatory protection. There are a range of risks that we have seen
have been clearly documented to the investor and should be considered carefully: The value
of any investment can fall as well as rise. Land or commercial property should not
necessarily be considered as a liquid investment; it may therefore not be suitable should you
need access to the capital at short notice or the timeframe desired by the trustee.
Commercial property investments tend to incur ongoing costs and charges, which may not
always be covered by any possible rental returns. The value of rental returns is dependent
on occupancy demand, which cannot be guaranteed. Investments held overseas may have
additional risks such as currency fluctuations, which may impact on any returns when
converted back into sterling; political risk to ownership and title; and commercial risk to the
delivery and management of a property/resort. You may wish to take independent legal
advice to ensure you understand all these issues
Our view is that the investment is appropriate but only as part of a diversified holding
according to an investor's attitude to risk and capacity for withstanding loss. You should
ensure that you only invest what you can afford to loseWe believe as core principles that
where an investor is looking to retire within ten years then no more than 50% of their
investment should be invested directly within commercial property, and the remainder should
be held in liquid investments. Our advice to investors is to consider the need for
diversification carefullyWe have not reviewed other overseas commercial property
investment opportunities and accordingly are not providing you with advice as to the merits
of the proposed investment as against other such investment opportunities. If you still have
any doubts we recommend that you seek independent financial advice
Im satisfied that CMIM did carry out the regulated activity of advising on investments. This
is defined in the FSMA 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (amongst other things) as
advice on buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a
security or a relevant investment. (my emphasis)
CMIM said they didnt provide Mr A with a personal recommendation. And I tend to agree.
Their terms of business clearly stated they wouldnt be giving individual suitability
advicewhich takes into account your personal financial circumstances and I think Mr A
would have been aware that he never met anyone from CMIM or that they hadnt explored
his personal and financial circumstances.Without a personal recommendation, the suitability obligations set out in COBS 9 wouldnt
apply here. However, CMIM still had regulatory obligations when giving their advice.
Amongst the FCAs Principles, CMIM was required to:
conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2);
take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively,
with adequate risk management systems (Principle 3);
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6);
take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions
for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment (Principle 9).
Ive also considered other COBS rules that arent in chapter 9 as well as the restrictions to
promotion of UCIS at 238 FSMA. CMIM has accepted the TRG investment appears to meet
the legal definition of a collective investment scheme, albeit an unregulated one, following
Asset Land v FCA [2016] UKSC 17). Although they admitted they didnt realise this at the
time of the advice.
Did CMIM promote the TRG investment to Mr A, ancillary to their advice?
The glossary definition of promotion is the FCA handbook is an invitation or inducement
to engage in investment activity that is communicated in the course of business. The words
invitation or inducement are not defined in the glossary or under the corresponding s.21 of
FSMA. Applying the guidance at PERG 8.4.5G Im not satisfied CMIMs Dear Trustee letter
had the characteristics of an invitation, mainly because it seems YCP had already invited
Mr A to consider TRG as an investment. But at PERG 8.4.7G the FCA went on to say this
about inducements, with my emphasis:
An inducement may be described as a link in a chain where the chain is intended to lead
ultimately to an agreement to engage in investment activity. But this does not mean that all
the links in the chain will be an inducement or that every inducement will be one to engage in
investment activity. Only those that are a significant step in persuading or inciting or seeking
to persuade or incite a recipient to engage in investment activity will be inducements under
s.21.
The FCA clarified this further at PERG 8.4.4G, again with my emphasis:
The FCA considers that it is appropriate to apply an objective test to decide whether a
communication is an invitation or an inducement. In the FCA's view, the essential elements
of an invitation or an inducement under section 21 are that it must both have the purpose or
intent of leading a person to engage in investment activity and be promotional in nature. So it
must seek, on its face, to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in investment activity.
The objective test may be summarised as follows.
Would a reasonable observer, taking account of all the circumstances at the time the
communication was made:
(1) consider that the communicator intended the communication to persuade or incite the
recipient to engage in investment activity or that that was its purpose; and
(2) regard the communication as seeking to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in
investment activity.
I dont dispute that YCP likely first promoted the TRG investment to Mr A and I agree its 
likely YCP had persuaded him to invest before he received CMIMs advice. However, this 
doesnt prevent CMIMs actions being an inducement too. Their Dear Trustee letter was 
clearly intended to lead trustees to invest in TRG. A reasonable conclusion to draw was that only trustees who were cautious and/or needed short-term access to the money shouldnt 
invest. And I think CMIM ought to have reasonably known this was an unlikely conclusion to 
draw for most of the recipients of their letter. I say this with view of the following:
the advice was being given on a pension, which is typically held for the long-term
no indication was given to the trustee to understand whether they met this cautious
definition. The letter also said that the more cautious the investor, the lesser amount
of the holding should be in commercial property. So even if someone thought of
themselves as fairly cautious, in my view the letter suggested an investment in TRG
could still be appropriate as part of their portfolio.
CMIM suggested it was possible to mitigate the risks of TRG by diversifying with
liquid assets and suggested their own DFM service.
CMIM say the letter encouraged trustees to take independent regulated advice. However,
whilst I appreciate they did tell trustees to seek independent advice if in doubt about your
choice, I think it would have been reasonable for most trustees to infer from the letter that if
they werent particularly cautious or needed their money in the short-term no further advice
was needed. I also disagree with CMIMs apparent suggestion that setting out the risks of
the TRG investments means the letter couldnt have been an inducement to invest.
CMIM argue YCP and CG had vested interests in trustees investing in TRG and they were
the ones promoting it. However, CMIM also stood to gain from trustees choosing TRG as an
investment as they could offer them to diversify their portfolios with CMIMs DFM service. I
think CMIM would have been aware that if the investment in TRG was discouraged, it was
unlikely trustees would use their DFM service.
Overall, I think the Dear Trustee letter inferred that whilst there were risks in TRG, if
properly diversified the investment was appropriate for most. In my view the letters intent
was to induce investment and Im satisfied a reasonable observer would regard the letter in
this way. On the evidence provided Im satisfied CMIM promoted the TRG investment to Mr 
A.
The fact that advice could also be a promotion was further confirmed on 1 January 2014
when the FCA revised the list of exemptions allowing promotion of UCIS (by then included in
a wider category of non-mainstream pooled investments) at COBS 4.12.4R.
The new exemption for solicited advice only allowed a promotion where the communication
met all of the following requirements:
(a) the communication only amounts to a financial promotion because it is a personal
recommendation on a non-mainstream pooled investment;
(b) the personal recommendation is made following a specific request by that client for 
advice on the merits of investing in the non-mainstream pooled investment; and
(c) the client has not previously received a financial promotion or any other communication 
from the firm (or from a person connected to the firm) which is intended to influence the 
client in relation to that non-mainstream pooled investment. [See Note 3.]
Note 3 read as follows: A person is connected with a firm if it acts as an introducer or 
appointed representative for that firm or if it is any other person, regardless of authorisation 
status, who has a relevant business relationship with the firm.
The introducer agreement YCP had entered into with CMIM would always have made this
exclusion unavailable (in effect because the introducer, rather than the trustee, was soliciting
the advice). And CMIM also didnt give a personal recommendation. But what I considerrelevant here is that the wording of the exclusion itself confirms that advice can also amount
to a promotion  even where a third party had previously promoted the investment. That is
what happened here: CMIM promoted and advised on the investment through their Dear
Trustee letter.
CMIM say trustees wouldnt have taken much notice of their advice letter and only would
have signed where they were told to by third parties. Their letter wouldnt have influenced
their decision to invest.
However, whether Mr A read the letter or not is in my view immaterial to whether CMIMs
advice letter was also a promotion. Whether something counts as an inducement depends
on the intent of the communication and how it would be regarded by a reasonable observer.
I think it ought to have been clear to CMIM that the SSAS administrators would expect
trustees to sign a confirmation that they had obtained and considered proper advice as
required in section 36 of PA95.
Their advice was a significant step in the investment process and they should have
reasonably expected their advice to be considered by trustees. Their involvement as a
regulated party and provider of advice legitimised the arrangement. And CMIM should have
realised their advice was also an inducement which means they were promoting the
investment as well as advising on it.
Did Mr A qualify for a relevant exemption from the restrictions on UCIS promotion?
Mr A unlikely qualified under the criteria set out in the in the FSMA (Promotion of Collective
Investment Schemes) (Exemptions) Order 2001, because he didnt appear to be a high net
worth or sophisticated investor. This was not established at the time by CMIM (as required
under the regulations).
This leaves the range of exemptions set out at COBS 4.12.4R, none of which apply to Mr A
in my view. The remaining COBS exemptions were slightly altered on 1 January 2014. I 
dont know when the Dear trustee letter was delivered to Mr A, however I cant see that any 
of the remaining exemptions in COBS either before 1 January 2014 or after apply to Mr A.
The only conclusion I can therefore draw from this is that CMIM unlawfully promoted the
TRG investment to Mr A as part of their advice, in contravention of s238 of FSMA.
Moreover CMIM ought reasonably to have been aware that other parties who promoted the
investment to Mr A previously were likely also in contravention of FSMA  because they
were themselves unregulated and/or because it appears unlikely they could rely on a valid
exemption.
What should CMIM have done instead?
CMIM had chosen to advise on TRG, so it ought to have established whether or not it was a
UCIS  as if it was, then they (and others) were promoting it in breach of FSMA.
They attended meetings with the other parties involved where a whole sales and marketing
strategy was apparently discussed to attract new clients to invest in TRG. Yet CMIM now
say it should have been obvious to CG that those clients were wholly inappropriate
candidates for SSASs. They also say CMIMs name was being used to give the
arrangements an air of credibility. These arguments demonstrate why CMIM shouldnt have
got involved in inducing Mr As investment into TRG at all. They knew that none of the other
parties in the transaction were regulated by the FCA and they could not, as a result, expect
them to have the same regulatory obligations towards clients like CMIM did.I have significant concerns about the arrangement CMIM entered into that effectively meant
it could only track who the end recipients of their dear Trustee letter in respect of TRG
were if YCP remembered to pass on a trustees signed copy of its terms of business, or it
later heard from them because theyd signed up for their DFM service.
That calls into question whether CMIM was adhering to Principle 3 (take reasonable
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk
management systems). They didnt have enough oversight of who would receive their advice 
and left it to unregulated parties-who they should have known had an interest in trustees 
investing in TRG- to control and influence the advice process. The trustees here were often
inexperienced investors with very modest pension funds and who the TRG investment was
unsuitable for.
I also cant see how it was possible for CMIM to give trustees proper advice which enabled
them to make investment decisions for their SSAS (as set out in CMIMs terms of business)
if it wasnt personalised to their specific SSAS and considering its circumstances and
objectives.
As set out at the beginning of this decision the FCAs Principles required CMIM amongst
other things to treat Mr A fairly and pay due regard to his interests. And they had to take
care when formulating their advice to him.
In observance of these principles and rules, in my view there were only really two options
CMIM had in this situation:
1) Decline to get involved in the introducer-adviser relationship with YCP, and therefore
not come into contact with retail clients like Mr A at all; or
2) Agree to accept introductions from YCP, but proceed on a basis which was
fundamentally different in a number of ways in order to ensure that it was complying
with the principles and rules. This would have included:
Taking reasonable care to make a recommendation to Mr A, which was
tailored to his specific circumstances and thus was more likely to pay due regard
to his best interests and treat him fairly.
Being mindful that if the recommendation was not to invest, this would not
amount to promotion and so the restriction wouldnt be breached.
Issuing that recommendation to Mr A directly, rather than supplying it to YCP
(where there was potentially some doubt whether it would reach Mr A, if the
advice didnt give a favourable impression of investing).
I considered what consequences these alternative actions would have had. If CMIM declined
to get involved or warned that it would need to advise Mr A, and other investors of a similar
background to him, not to invest in TRG, its possible that YCP would have sought a
relationship with a different adviser hoping to get a more favourable outcome.
However the wording of PA95 meant that the proper advice Mr A was required to take
couldnt be given by just any adviser. And evidently the SSAS administrator or the other
parties involved, presumably in not wanting to jeopardise the successful operation of the
SSASs being established, were keen to ensure that this legislation was observed.
Section 36 states:For the purposes of this section proper advice means
(a) if the giving of the advice constitutes the carrying on, in the United Kingdom, of a 
regulated activity (within the meaning of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000), 
advice given by a person who may give it without contravening the prohibition imposed by 
section 19 of that Act (prohibition on carrying on regulated activities unless authorised or 
exempt);
(b) in any other case, the advice of a person who is reasonably believed by the trustees to 
be qualified by his ability in and practical experience of financial matters and to have the 
appropriate knowledge and experience of the management of the investments of trust 
schemes
Whether or not the other parties realised that any advice on TRG was a regulated activity, it
wasnt surprising that typically the relevant knowledge and experience to give that advice
was more likely to be found amongst regulated firms.
In this context I think its also reasonable to expect any regulated adviser to be as mindful of
the FCAs principles and rules as CMIM should have been. So I would have expected any
regulated adviser to consider the position on promotion and the consequences for that of
giving any advice in favour of investing that couldnt be supported by a valid exemption.
Ive also taken into account that CMIM had the option to refuse to get involved in advising
Mr A at all, but it chose to give advice. So, I think its fair and reasonable that CMIM is held
to the standard of the proper personal recommendation that it should have given to him to
satisfy the regulators expectations.
What would have happened if CMIM gave suitable advice?
As a regulated firm with permission to advise on investments, Im satisfied CMIM should
have been aware of the regulators views on UCIS and other non-mainstream investments. It
ought to have known that any investment in UCIS taking up a significant portion of a SSAS
was plainly unsuitable the majority of retail investors, including Mr A. There was nothing
about TRG in particular  being an off-plan, offshore property development subject to a
variety of currency, counterparty, construction and occupancy risks  to counter that
presumption of unsuitability.
It should have been apparent that Mr A couldnt afford to take the speculative risk investing
over half of his pension provisions in TRG. And Mr A is unlikely to have had the
experience to fully understand the risks to his pension.
Its evident that the whole reason for the SSAS being introduced to Mr A by other parties
was in order to invest in TRG. So I need to consider how Mr A would likely have acted, if
CMIM had advised against the TRG investment.
Would Mr A have invested in TRG anyway?
Theres no evidence CMIM provided Mr A with the advice to open a SSAS and transfer his 
pension. Its likely he received this advice from YCP before CMIM got involved. Theres 
limited paperwork in this case. And some of the documents are undated. So I dont know 
when exactly Mr A would have received CMIMs Dear trustee letter. It would have been at 
some point between October 2013, when he signed CMIMs terms of business, and 
February 2014 when his pension funds were transferred to TRG and the DFM.
I think its likely YCP would have focussed on the positives of the TRG investment and Mr A 
would have been persuaded to invest in TRG by YCP and possibly CG. However, I dont think Mr A was at a point where he couldnt have changed his mind about the investment in 
TRG.
If CMIM had clearly told him that the TRG investment was unsuitable for him explaining that
this was a specialist high-risk investment which meant there was a real risk of losing large
parts of his pension and the regulator deemed this sort of investment unsuitable for
inexperienced investors like him, I think its likely he would have listened.
Of course I dont know for certain what Mr A would have done. And I appreciate it can be
difficult sometimes to backtrack from a planned action. However, Ive considered that Mr A
was cold called by YCP and doesnt appear to have had a longstanding relationship with
them. On balance, I think if Mr A had received a clear recommendation from an
independent regulated financial adviser like CMIM not to proceed as it wasnt in his best
interest to do so, he would have decided against the investment into TRG.
Its possible that he only received CMIMs advice after his pension had already been 
transferred to the SSAS. So Im not sure whether this could have been prevented. However, 
I think the investment into TRG more likely than not would not have happened if CMIM had 
given proper advice. On the balance of probabilities I also think that Mr A would not have 
ended up investing in a DFM through CMIM. This was only suggested to diversify the TRG 
investment. Given Mr As low fund value and lack of investment experience I dont think a 
DFM portfolio would have likely been right for him.
If he had been informed that the TRG proposition was unsuitable for him and not in his best 
interest, I think he would have reconsidered the whole investment proposition and sought 
further advice.
Involvement of other parties
CMIM feels its unfair that they should compensate Mr A for all his losses when they
werent involved in the pension switch advice and initial promotion of TRG. They also say the
CG were heavily involved in the transaction and should be held responsible for any losses.
Im aware that other parties were involved here. And I appreciate they might have
contributed to the situation Mr A now finds himself in. However, I can only consider the
complaint brought to this service which is the one against CMIM. As explained in this
decision I think CMIM didnt act in line with their regulatory obligations and if they had done
so, Mr A likely would not have invested in TRG. 
It looks like Mr A changed his investment to a different TRG resort in 2016. CMIM say they 
werent involved in this and werent involved at all after the DFM changed to Organic. And I 
think this is likely to be correct. 
However, in my view Mr A likely wouldnt have been invested in TRG and in any DFM 
arrangement at all if CMIM had given advice like they should have. I havent seen evidence 
that any regulated adviser was involved in making these changes to the DFM and TRG 
investment. CMIM allowed Mr A to be left under the influence of unregulated parties which 
had promoted a high-risk, unregulated investment to him in the first place and likely 
suggested the changes to his investments here. 
Im satisfied CMIM could have prevented Mr As losses if they had advised him properly. So 
in the circumstances I think its fair and reasonable that they compensate him for his losses 
in full. Im also satisfied the losses or indeed gains (if any) flowing from the DFM investments Mr A 
made subsequent to CMIMs advice form part of his overall loss. I think on balance Mr A 
would have no reason to end up in these DFM arrangements at all, but for CMIMs failings.
So, including the present-day value of the DFM component is part of putting Mr A back into
the position he would have been in, had CMIM not acted as it did. That includes the
subsequent changes of DFM provider which also would not likely have needed to happen if 
CMIM had advised Mr A differently. 
If CMIM feel that other parties actions have contributed to these losses, they are free to 
pursue this directly with them once the paid the full redress to Mr A.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr A should be put as closely as possible into the position he would
probably now be in if he had been properly advised. 
I take the view that its possible he would have already transferred his personal pension into 
the SSAS before he received CMIMs advice. However, in any event I think he would have 
likely invested his funds differently. I dont know exactly how he would have invested, but I 
am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, given Mr A's circumstances 
and likely attitude to risk.
What must CMIM do?
To compensate Mr A fairly, CMIM must:
Compare the performance of Mr A's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
CMIM should add interest as set out below
CMIM should pay into Mr A's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If CMIM is unable to pay the total amount into Mr A's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr A wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr A's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Here, its reasonable to assume that Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. But as he would be yet 
to take his tax-free cash sum in respect of the majority of the fair value, the adjustment should only apply to 75% of the compensation, giving a composite 
reduction of 15% overall.
Pay to Mr A £300 for the distress caused by experiencing losses to his pension.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If CMIM deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr A how much has been taken off. CMIM should give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr A asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SSAS and 
DFM 
portfolio (if 
not included 
in SSAS 
anymore)Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case.
CMIM should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount CMIM pays should be included in the
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If CMIM is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for
the purpose of calculating the actual value. CMIM may require that Mr A provides an
undertaking to pay CMIM any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. CMIM will need to meet any costs in drawing
up the undertaking.
CMIM has suggested to this service that it may be able to use independent valuers for the
TRG investment, or agree a value with the SSAS administrators (which is more than nil
value), even if its not actually buying the investment from the SSAS. As there appears to
be no market for the investment I dont consider its fair to use a value that is the opinion
of someone who is not actually prepared to (or unable to) buy the investment from the
SSAS. I also cannot anticipate whether TRG will be permitting changes of ownership
because clearly legal processes would be involved. But to the extent that this is possible,
if CMIM believes that the investment has value then it can benefit by buying the
investment out of the SSAS.
The aim of this undertaking is to avoid double-recovery of Mr As losses. It is not my role
to set the terms of the assignment and undertaking, but rather to explain its aim in
achieving overall fairness for both parties.As stated above the actual value should include the present-day value of the DFM 
component.
Fair Value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, CMIM should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
The SSAS only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SSAS to be closed and
further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be removed. Ive set
out above how this might be achieved by CMIM taking over the illiquid assets, or this is
something that Mr A can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that
will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If CMIM is
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it
pays Mr A an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SSAS to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr A was 41 and so still a long time away from retirement, so I think he would have 
been willing and able to take at least a small amount of investment risk
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017,
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison
given Mr A's circumstances and likely risk attitude.
Details of the calculation must be provided to Mr A in a clear, simple format.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Central Markets Investment Management Limited to
compensate Mr A as set out above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 Nina Walter
Ombudsman