DRN-4028964
The complaint
Mr M has complained about  a deduction that HDI Global Specialty SE UK (HDI) has made 
from the amount of a claim he made on his pet insurance policy.
References to HDI include its agents and administrators.
What happened
Mr M insured his dog, who Ill refer to as W, with HDI on 9 September 2021. This was 
purchased through a price comparison website. In August 2022 W sustained an injury to his 
tail which necessitated an emergency veterinary visit. His tail was subsequently amputated 
by another vet. 
Mr M claimed for the cost of Ws treatment by both vets which totalled £910.63. HDI settled 
this claim after the deduction of the £160 policy excess and a further £111.50 which was the 
amount by which the cost of Ws out of hours emergency treatment exceeded a £100 cap on 
such treatment. The relevant policy term reads as follows: 
What is not covered?
19. The cost of any treatment outside normal surgery hours except for treatment that a 
vet considers cannot wait until normal surgery hours (necessary treatment) because it 
would seriously endanger your pet's health regardless of your personal circumstances. 
The vet that treated your pet must also confirm this in writing and explain why they 
advised this when your veterinary claim is submitted. For necessary treatment outside of 
normal veterinary hours, the charge applied to consultations is limited to a maximum of 
£100.
Mr Ms complaint is about the deduction of £111.50.
Mr M says that when he took out his policy on 9 September 2021, he wasnt sent the policy 
terms and conditions. He says he did receive the Insurance Product Information Document, 
but this makes no mention of emergency/out of hours vet fees not being covered.
Mr M maintains that in various telephone conversations he had with HDI he wasnt informed 
that emergency vet fees wouldnt be covered as part of his claim although he says there 
were opportunities for it to have done so. He says this wasnt stated in the policy renewal 
documents that hed received. He says hed made HDIs call handlers aware that hed used 
an emergency vet for Ws treatment, and he shouldve been made aware that emergency vet 
fees wouldnt be covered.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with HDIs rejection of his complaint, so he brought it to this service. 
He says he wants to be reimbursed the £111.50 shortfall due to the inaccessibility and lack 
of clarity of HDIs terms of cover. He says that this information should be accessible and 
available to customers before a policy is sold.
Our investigators view was that the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy wouldve been 
sent to him when he took out the policy, so he wouldve been aware of the policy limits 
detailed within it. The necessary information was available to view before he took out his 
policy. She also didnt consider that in any of his telephone conversations with HDI he was 
informed that his costs would be covered in full.  
Mr M doesnt agree with our investigators view, so hes asked that his complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why. 
I consider that there are two elements to Mr Ms complaint. Firstly whether he was informed 
when he took out his policy that out of hours vet fees wouldnt be covered unless in an 
emergency in which case a cap of £100 would apply. Secondly, that when he submitted a 
claim, he wasnt advised that there would be a deduction if the out of hours fee exceeded 
£100.
With regard to the information available to Mr M when he took out his policy, I note what Mr 
M says he received. He says he wasnt sent the policy terms and conditions from which he 
couldve seen the limitation on the amount payable for emergency out of hours treatment. He 
incorrectly refers to emergency out of hours treatment being not covered. It is covered, but 
subject to a cap on the cost of such treatment and to it being confirmed by the vet that the 
treatment cant wait.
Ive seen screenshots provided by Mr M of messages sent to him by HDI. One of these 
dated 9 September 2021 states:
Thank you for taking out a policy with us for [W]. If you have already registered to your 
portal, you will have received a verification email from us for you to activate your account 
and view your documents. Alternatively, please follow the steps below. (steps then 
follow)
Ive also seen a screen shot of a message sent to Mr M by HDI on 9 September 2021 which 
confirms that Mr M signed up to Manage My Policy. Having done so, Mr M had access to 
his policy document containing the policy terms and conditions.
HDI has also provided a screenshot of the policy purchase journey through the price 
comparison website. When a quote is provided, and before the policy can be purchased, the 
customer is required to tick a box confirming that they have read the Policy Wording, to 
which there is a link.
Im therefore satisfied that Mr M had access to the policy wording before he purchased the 
policy in 2021. Thereafter he had access to the policy wording and a 14-day cooling-off 
period during which he had the opportunity to further acquaint himself with the policy terms 
and conditions and to cancel the policy if he chose to.
Turning to the telephone conversations between Mr M and HDI in relation to his claim, I 
cannot identify any express statement by HDI that his claim for emergency out of hours 
treatment would be paid without any deduction. If such a statement had been made, it 
mightve been arguable that it wasnt then fair to make a deduction, but as Mr M didnt act in reliance on any such statement, I dont consider that any such argument would succeed. W 
had at that point already received his emergency treatment.  
So as HDI has in my view made the £111.50 deduction in accordance with the terms of the 
policy, I dont consider that it has acted unfairly or unreasonably in making it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman