DRN-4030550
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the service shes received after making a claim on her home 
emergency policy with Aviva Insurance Limited.
Aviva are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. As Aviva have accepted they are accountable for their 
appointed agents actions, in my decision, any reference to Aviva includes the actions of 
their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mrs K and Aviva. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mrs K had a home emergency insurance policy with Aviva. Mrs K made a claim on her policy 
related to low water pressure. A number of engineer visits took place but no leak was clearly 
identified. Mrs K was advised to arrange a pressure and flow test with her water company. A 
further visit on behalf of Aviva took place and Mrs K was advised that the problem was being 
caused by supply pipes  which wasnt covered under this policy.
Mrs K complained to Aviva. They told Mrs K that should an independent engineers report 
sufficiently show that a leak existed theyd reconsider the claim. Aviva offered £100 in 
recognition for the issues caused by how theyd handled this claim. Mrs K wanted Aviva to 
pay for the necessary remedial works to be carried out by a private engineer, but Aviva 
declined and offered to have a further inspection. The further inspection didnt detect any 
leak and it was recommended the bathroom taps, isolation valves be changed and a stop 
tap replaced.
Mrs K referred her complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our Investigator 
considered the complaint and recommended that the £100 offered was fair and reasonable 
and that Aviva should make contact with Mrs K to have the opportunity to remedy the issue 
(if the issue was covered under the policy). Our Service then closed the complaint.
Aviva did then make contact with Mrs K and she raised a new complaint. A new final 
response letter was issued on 5 January 2023 stating that Aviva had called Mrs K on 15 
December 2022, left a voicemail and later offered to send out a plumber (as per our 
Investigators recommendations)  but that Mrs K didnt want a plumber to visit and instead 
wanted Aviva to write to her with their proposal.
Mrs K got back in contact with our service and this complaint was reopened as the initial 
complaint remain unresolved. The complaint was then passed to me for a decision and I 
recently sent both parties a copy of my provisional, intended findings. As the deadline for 
responses has now passed, Ive considered the complaint for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. As neither party provided 
either any materially new evidence or responses following my provisional decision  I see no 
fair or reasonable decision to deviate from my intended findings. 
Mrs K has said: I would like the Ombudsman to look at this and make a decision based on 
the findings of the independent contractors. But as Ive said previously, a further final 
response letter was issued in early January 2023. My decision will consider Avivas actions 
up until that point and will largely focus on the following two tests:
Have Aviva fair and reasonably considered this claim in line with the policy terms?
And;
Have Aviva treated Mrs K fairly and reasonably overall?
I wont be making a specific finding on the findings of the independent contractor, but have 
considered whether Aviva placed appropriate weight on that evidence.
Aviva initially told Mrs K that there was a leak and itd be covered under the policy. The job 
notes from 26 August 2021 recorded: there is a leak on the water supply pipe external.
The job notes from another visit on behalf of Aviva (13 September 2021) state: No leak on 
WSP. Issue could be internal. I find the advice to contact the third party water company to 
be reasonable and Aviva made it clear theyd consider any further information that came out 
of that investigation.
Another note from 23 September 2021 stated: WSP engineer has found the problem which 
is all pipes are old and galvanised steel that has rotted within This wouldnt be covered 
under this policy and will have been disappointing for Mrs K - after initially being told there 
was a leak and it would be covered.
Ive noted that when Mrs K provided an independent third party report stating there likely 
was a leak and a breakdown of the remedial work costs, in December 2021 Aviva sent out 
the same engineer whod visited for the first appointment and this time they said the issues 
were being caused by a toilet ball valve and the water supply pipes would likely need 
replacing  something that wasnt covered under this policy. At this point it had been almost 
four months since Mrs K first reported the issue and I find it unreasonable that this issue 
wasnt identified much sooner.
Mrs K had another third party engineer attend her property in January 2022 who found no 
issue with the toilet ball valve. Mrs K informed Aviva, but said she didnt want any further 
Aviva engineers to attend. Given her experience in the previous 4 months, I dont find this 
unreasonable. I say this because its clear her relationship with Aviva had deteriorated by 
this point and an element of mis-trust had developed  due to her experience.
I find it reasonable that Aviva told Mrs K in April 2022 that although they werent authorising 
private repair works, theyd consider a written report explaining any repairs and supporting 
evidence.
When considering how Aviva have treated Mrs K overall, Ive noted an internal email about 
the ongoing claim dated 13 October 2021 stated:I put it through to the hardship fund to see if there was a way of doing it through this 
way but was told that this would not happen due to the way the customer has made 
numerous complaints.
I find this to be extremely cynical, disappointing - and not in the interests of treating 
customers fairly. Ive also kept in mind that Aviva have remained silent on this point following 
my recent provisional decision.
I now increase the £100 offered by Aviva to a total of £450. This is to recognise the overall 
avoidable poor communication, disappointment, inconvenience and frustration that Avivas 
actions have caused Mrs K - as well as the overall time taken when responding to this claim.
It's disappointing how Aviva have handled this claim overall. In order to resolve the 
outstanding claim, I find that Avivas offer to visit Mrs Ks property to carry out necessary 
plumbing (bathrooms taps replaced, isolation valves changed and stop tap valve replaced) 
to be fair. Should the pressure issues persist after this, Aviva have said they will dispatch a 
water supply pipe engineer to excavate (if necessary) and investigate leaks on the pipework 
 subject to the work being covered under the policy and the relevant policy limits. 
(bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman)
Our Service can only direct a respondent business - not a complainant. Whilst Ive 
recognised that Mrs Ks relationship with Aviva has deteriorated, in the interests of resolving 
her claim, she needs to strongly consider arranging a suitable time for this (the plumbing 
repairs) to happen with Aviva. I dont find it necessary that Aviva write to Mrs K outlining 
what they plan to do. I say this because my decision makes it clear and Avivas recent final 
response letter also references their intended course of action.
I need to be clear with both parties that my final decision is the end of our Services 
involvement in the complaint referred to us. Should any further issues develop after this, that 
would need to be a new complaint and/or referral to our Service.
Putting things right
I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs K a total of £450 (including the previous offer of £100) to recognise the 
impact of their actions on her. 
Visit Mrs Ks property to carry out necessary plumbing (bathroom taps replaced, 
isolation valves changed and stop tap valve replaced). Should the pressure issues 
persist after this, carry out further investigations - subject to the relevant policy cover 
and limits.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to follow 
my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman