DRN-2961742
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt do more to help 
her when she was the victim of a scam.
 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too 
much detail here. Around July 2017 Miss P was introduced to Mr P, a scammer, by a mutual 
acquaintance. Over the following months Miss P grew close to Mr P and entered into a 
romantic relationship with him.
Mr P convinced Miss P he had considerable investment experience and was very wealthy. In 
November 2017 Miss P transferred around £150,000 to him to invest. She transferred a 
further £250,000 in April 2018 and a further £4,000 in August 2018  a total of £404,000.
By the end of 2018 Miss P started to grow concerned when she didnt receive any returns as 
expected and Mr P began to avoid contact from her. She says she reported the matter in a 
local NatWest branch in January 2019 although NatWest has no record of this having 
happened. 
Miss P complained to NatWest in January 2020 as she felt it shouldve done more to 
intervene and expose the scam when she was making the payments. NatWest didnt agree, 
and the complaint was brought to our service to consider. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint, so its been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should NatWest have done more to prevent the transfers?
Theres no dispute the transfers Miss P made were authorised payments even though she 
was the victim of a sophisticated scam. She made the payments herself under the terms and 
conditions of her account and the Payment Services Regulations 2009 & 2017 (the 2017 
revisions had come into force before the second and third payment were made). So, Miss P 
is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
NatWest should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
For branch transactions like this, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.
Due to the significant amounts involved in the first two transfers Miss P made Im satisfied 
NatWest ought reasonably to have intervened and asked her about them. And I think the 
questions it asked ought to have been probing questions that sufficiently tested the answers 
Miss P gave. 
Miss P has said she wasnt asked anything by staff in branch and no conversation took 
place. Shes also said she recalls tick box type questioning and she was rushed as it was 
close to the transfer cut off deadline for the day. She hasnt specified if this was for all of the 
payments. NatWest has said conversations did take place and in the case of the first two 
payments Miss P made, for £150,000 and £250,000, NatWest has been able to show 
checklists, completed by staff that detail the questions Miss P was asked and the answers it 
recorded she gave. 
Overall I think the questions asked do demonstrate NatWest was on the look out for well 
known scams Miss P mightve been the victim of. It asked her if shed met the person she 
was making payments to, if shed been pressured into making them and checked she hadnt 
been cold called. It also gave some warning about the possibility scammers mightve tried to 
intercept correspondence and checked she was sure the payment details she was using 
were correct.
But, I think the person she spoke to ought reasonably to have probed further with some of 
the questions asked. NatWest had established she was making an investment and I 
wouldve expected it to ask more about the details of this - how it had come about and 
whether Miss P had seen any paperwork. So I dont think it went far enough with its 
interventions.
But, overall, I dont think its likely further questioning ought reasonably to have given 
NatWest cause to refuse the transactions or wouldve alerted Miss P to the fact she was 
being scammed. Ill explain why.
Miss P has confirmed she was close to Mr P and this relationship became romantic. And 
although shes said their romantic relationship didnt start until the end of 2017  which is 
around the time the first payment was made  its seems from the correspondence shes 
provided between them that the relationship was a more than professional one from 
sometime before this.
Miss P has told us she went away with Mr P and met him at high end rented properties. 
Shed been out with him with her children on numerous occasions and he spent time with 
her son  teaching him how to invest. As Ive seen, over a number of months Mr P explained 
in detail to Miss P how skilled an investor he was and persuaded her to agree to complete 
confidentiality around their dealings. He had also, when she requested, returned around 
£50,000 after her initial investment of £150,000. 
Miss P has described in detail how taken in she was by Mr P and how vulnerable she was at 
the time she met him. Shes described how he groomed her  and her children  into 
believing he was a wealthy, competent investor. And I can see from their correspondence this is the case. Miss P has explained it had never even occurred to her it might be a scam. 
Shes said she had no idea this kind of thing happened and that a person would do this to 
another.
From what I can see from the correspondence Miss P has provided, it appears Mr P had 
spent several months coaching Miss P to believe that he was very wealthy and a very skilled 
investor who was sharing secrets of the trade with her and her son that other investors keep 
to themselves. 
He spent considerable time constructing this narrative and demonstrating his wealth and 
lifestyle to her so as to reassure her that he could provide returns on her investments that 
were far greater than usual investment returns. When she made the payments, it appears 
Miss P believed herself to be in a relationship with him and trusted him enough to spend 
time with her son and teach him how to invest. Shed also agreed to a confidentiality 
agreement about what she was doing.
Had NatWest asked about who the payment was to and what it was for, I cant see any 
reason Miss P wouldnt have told NatWest she was sending money to a friend (or her 
partner if she considered him to be her partner at the time). And if pressed on this, I think 
she likely wouldve explained she had complete trust in this person and was confident he 
was a skilled investor who knew what he was doing with her money. 
And whilst she believes NatWest shouldve recognised this wasnt a genuine relationship, I 
dont agree. I dont think on the face of it this wouldve appeared to NatWest to be the typical 
sort of scams it wouldve been looking out for. I say this because it doesnt seem to carry the 
hallmarks of any usual romance or investment scams. 
Miss P clearly knew Mr P much better than victims of these types of scams tend to. She was 
introduced by someone she described as a friend, although I know she later said they 
werent a friend, and she was aware she wasnt working with a qualified investor in a formal 
capacity. She understood she was making a payment to Mr P directly and he would invest it 
as and when he saw fit  at times through a trading platform he said hed designed and built 
himself. 
I dont think that based on this information, a branch staff member reasonably ought to have 
known this situation was a scam. So I dont think NatWest likely wouldve had cause to 
refuse the payment or couldve said or done anything to uncover the scam. 
Miss P believes NatWest shouldve asked her for the paperwork shed received from Mr P. 
And this is also something Id expect it to have asked about when it discovered Miss P was 
making an investment so Ive considered this point carefully.
The paperwork Miss P received regarding her investment isnt convincing as part of a formal, 
regulated investment. And, the returns being promised were between around £30,000 and 
£200,000 per month which is unrealistic for any regulated investment Id expect NatWest to 
be familiar with. Although, as Ive said Mr P wasnt claiming to be putting Miss Ps money 
into a regulated investment. 
I wouldnt expect branch staff to have investment knowledge, but I would expect them to 
know enough about investment scams that the returns promised wouldve raised concerns. 
But, on balance, Im not persuaded its more likely than not a situation wouldve come about 
where Miss P wouldve provided the paperwork to branch staff.
As Ive outlined, I think its clear Miss P trusted Mr P completely and was part of a reality 
hed constructed where he was a wealthy, competent investor who was letting her in on trade secrets. In her own words, it had never occurred to her that the situation wasnt 
normal. And whilst shes said shed not known this kind of scam could happen, I think its 
likely from what NatWests records show she was given some warning about scams to be 
aware of. 
So, I think its clear Miss P didnt believe she was being scammed and this hadnt occurred 
to her. And because of this Im not persuaded she wouldve believed it necessary or 
beneficial for branch staff to see the investment paperwork. And whilst shes since said she 
wouldve handed it over if asked, shes also said she felt completely under the influence of 
Mr P, and hed asked her the details of their arrangement were to be kept private. So 
although I think had NatWest seen the paperwork it ought to have reasonably intervened 
further, Im not persuaded a scenario wouldve come about where Miss P wouldve handed it 
over.
In her response to the investigators findings, Miss P has raised a number of different laws, 
regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good industry practice she 
feels NatWest has failed to comply with. I want to reassure her that everything shes 
mentioned has been taken into account in this case and has informed what I feel NatWests 
obligations to her were in this case, as set out at the start of my decision. 
But overall, I dont think the situation Miss P has described wouldve appeared to have been 
a scam when she was questioned in branch on any occasion she made payment to Mr P. So 
I dont think NatWest ought reasonably to have refused to carry out the transactions. And, 
Im not convinced that, given the strength of her relationship with Mr P, NatWest likely 
couldve intervened in such a way that wouldve convinced her not to make the payments 
she did.
Did NatWest try and retrieve the money?
Mr Ps account was also with NatWest. By the time Miss P reported the scam that had taken 
place it could see the money had already left the account and been spent. So Im satisfied 
there was nothing further it couldve done to retrieve it.
I wouldnt have expected NatWest to investigate Mr Ps account when Miss P initially made 
the payments to it as this isnt something Id reasonably expect the bank to do every time a 
payment is made. But overall, I dont think there is any activity on the account so significantly 
unusual or suspicious that NatWest reasonably ought to have known not to have allowed 
payments to be made to the account at that time Miss P made them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman