DRN-2894780
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance policy, saying he experienced delays and poor service. 
Where I refer to Aviva this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf
What happened
Mr L made a claim on his policy to cover the legal costs of a dispute with his employer. He 
first contacted Aviva in December 2019. He was asked to complete a questionnaire with 
details about his claim, which he did. He was then asked to provide some further information 
and documents in support of his claim
In January 2020 Mr L provided further information to Aviva. He also informed Aviva that he 
had a deadline of 10 February to lodge his claim with the employment tribunal, and that he 
wanted to use his own solicitors. Aviva explained to Mr L that it still needed further 
information from him, which Mr L provided on 20 January. 
Aviva referred the claim to one of its panel firms of solicitors on 23 January for an 
assessment of the chances of his case being successful. The solicitors instructed a barrister 
to provide an opinion.
Mr L chased Aviva a number of times over the following week or so. Aviva explained that it 
was waiting for the legal advice. 
On 7 February Aviva sent a copy of the legal advice together with terms of appointment to 
Mr Ls. 
Following a request from Mr Ls solicitors, Aviva agreed to consider their costs as from 7 
February.
Mr L was unhappy with the time taken to deal with his claim, which he said was too long 
given the circumstances and the deadline he faced to issue proceedings. In response to the 
complaint, Aviva said it aimed to deal with all correspondence within five working days (but 
will try and reply more quickly where possible); it needed to obtain a legal opinion on the 
case; and there wasnt evidence to show it had delayed his claim. 
When Mr L then brought his complaint to this service, our investigator said it was reasonable 
for Aviva to obtain legal advice on the claim, and once it had that advice it dealt with the 
claim in a timely manner. He didnt think there had been any undue delay by Aviva. 
The investigator also said Aviva wasnt required to pay costs incurred before it had agreed to 
them, but it had agreed to backdate costs to 7 February, which was reasonable.
Mr L disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should deal with a claim promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy provides cover for the type of claim Mr L was pursuing. But as with most 
insurance, there are terms and conditions that must be met before cover is provided. In 
particular, the policy terms say a claim must have prospects of success, which means it 
must be more likely than not that the policyholder will win their case. Terms like this are 
common in legal expenses policies. They mean insurers dont have to meet costs for claims 
that are unlikely to be successful. 
The terms also say Aviva wont pay for costs that have been incurred before it has agreed to 
them. Again, this is not unusual and its reasonable for an insurer to want to be able to 
review costs before they are incurred.
I would expect an insurer to get legal advice before deciding whether a claim has reasonable 
prospects. And the insurer is entitled to rely on that advice, unless its obviously wrong. 
There was a delay of a few weeks initially but that was due to Aviva waiting for information 
from Mr L. Once it had the information it needed, Aviva referred the claim to solicitors 
promptly. They in turn asked a barrister to advise on the prospects of success.
As Ive explained, it was reasonable for Aviva to obtain legal advice on the prospects of the 
claim being successful  thats what I would expect any insurer to do. 
It took from 23 January until 7 February for that advice to be provided. I appreciate that Mr L 
had a deadline to meet on 10 February. But Aviva was aware of this and chased the panel 
solicitors during that period. The barrister asked for a short extension of a few days to deal 
with the advice and that was outside of Avivas control. 
I havent seen any period where matters were left to drift without Aviva taking action; it kept 
in touch with the solicitors and acted straightaway when the legal advice was received. 
With regard to the costs, Aviva wasnt required to pay for costs Mr L incurred before it had 
authorised the claim. But Aviva agreed to backdate cover to 7 February  the date when the 
claim was assessed as having prospects of success. I think that was fair in the 
circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr L was under pressure as he had to issue proceedings by 10 February. 
The situation was stressful for him and it would have been difficult having to wait until just a 
few days before the deadline before cover was confirmed. But for the reasons given, I dont 
think there was any delay by Aviva. The steps it took to assess the claim were in line with 
the policy terms, it acted promptly, and in the circumstances I think the way it dealt with the 
claim was reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman