DRN-3460720
The complaint
Mr R complains that a car he acquired via a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Mr R has been assisted in bringing his complaint to this service but for ease of reference 
Im only going to refer to Mr R in my decision set out below.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr R saw an advert for a car and attended the dealership. He says that 
when he saw the car, he was disappointed about the condition of its bodywork so said he 
no longer wanted it. The dealership said it would undertake some repairs and asked him 
to return after four days.
Mr R says he then signed the conditional sale agreement and returned a few days later to 
the dealership. Mr R says that although most of the damage to the bodywork had been 
fixed there were still some scratches around the wing mirrors, however he decided to 
accept the car which came with a three-month warranty.
At the point of supply to Mr R the car was around eight years old and had a mileage of 
about 49,750. The conditional sale agreement was for 48 months.
Just over a week after acquiring the car Mr R returned it to the dealership as he said he 
was experiencing a burning smell and the gears were sticking when the car was driven 
long distances. The dealership took the car back and Mr R says he was informed it had 
found a fault following an extensive test drive. Repairs were carried out to the gearbox 
and clutch and the car returned to Mr R.
Mr R says the problem with the cars gearbox and clutch remained and that it was agreed 
with the broker who arranged the credit agreement for the car to undergo a diagnostic 
health check at another garage. This health check noted two ambers for the car, one for a 
nail in a tyre and the second that the exhaust brackets were broken.
Mr R says that he then returned to the dealership to complain that the gearbox fault was 
still present but was told by them they would not conduct further repairs under the 
warranty. Mr R says he believes this invalidated his warranty.
Mr R says that the broker who had arranged the credit agreement passed his complaint 
to Moneybarn and advised him to make no further payments under the agreement.
The broker advised Moneybarn that the dealer was happy to rectify the fault shown on 
the health check report but not replace the tyre. Mr R says he wasnt aware of this offer 
but by then his relationship with the dealer had broken down.
Mr R contacted Moneybarn in April 2021 and said that he wanted to reject the car due to 
its faults. Moneybarn offered to have the car inspected by an independent engineer and 
Mr R agreed to this.
The independent engineer inspected the car at the end of April 2021. At this point the cars 
mileage was 51,951. The engineer reported the car was in average condition and that the 
gearbox oil had been changed and the clutch fluid drained. The car was taken on a nine-
mile road test with speeds up to 60mph. No judder or slipping of the gears was 
experienced nor was any burning smell or knocking noise noted. The independent 
engineer said they couldnt replicate any fault with the car but said that the knocking noise 
couldve been linked to the exhaust bracket which had been repaired and the burning 
smell could have been caused by the paint that had been used on the bracket.
The independent engineer examined the exhaust bracket and found that it was welded 
and secure. However, they did note that the cars battery cover was missing, as was the 
puncture repair fluid which they said should be replaced at the expense of the supplying 
dealer.
Moneybarn didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said that no fault had been found with the 
cars gearbox or clutch. It also said that although there were cosmetic faults with the cars 
bodywork Mr R would have been aware of these at the time he had taken it. Moneybarn 
said that these cosmetic issues didnt affect the satisfactory quality of the car. However, it 
offered Mr R £75 compensation for the missing battery cover and tyre puncture repair 
fluid.
Mr R took the car to a third-party garage. This garage provided a letter to Mr R stating 
they had seen the car in May 2021 and confirmed there was a fault with the car being 
difficult to get into gear when hot. They said this would need to be investigated further and 
would entail the removal of the gearbox. The garage said it had advised Mr R to reject the 
car.
Mr R complained to this service about the quality of the car. He also said that in July 2021 
he had made the decision to return the car and cancel the agreement. Mr R said hed 
been distressed at the arrears letters sent to him by Moneybarn.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She said that, 
looking at the evidence, she wasnt persuaded there was a current fault with the cars 
gearbox and clutch and that there hadnt been a failed repair to these parts. Our 
investigator said she didnt think the letter from the third-party garage outweighed the 
independent engineers report who had provided an explanation for the smell and noise 
experienced by Mr R.
Our investigator said that as Mr R wasnt entitled to reject the car and had only made 
one payment under the agreement he was in breach of its terms and conditions. She 
said that although Moneybarn had taken the car back this didnt mean it had accepted 
it wasnt of satisfactory quality.
The investigator also said she thought the £75 compensation payment from 
Moneybarn for the missing items found by the independent engineer had been fair.
Mr R disagreed with our investigators view. He says that he reported a fault with the 
cars gearbox within the first 30 days of the agreement coming into existence and that 
this repair failed. He says the independent engineer didnt investigate the actual fault 
because the test drive was too short, the issue arising after a journey of around 100 
miles.
Mr R says that the actions of the dealership rendered his warranty void as he was told 
to leave its premises. He also says he returned the car as was his right under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 and that this should not have a detrimental impact on his credit file and finances.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr R is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Moneybarn is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here the car was around eight years old and had a mileage of about 49,750. So, some 
issues of maintenance and repair would have been expected over time. However, Id 
seen that Mr R had raised issues with the car a short time after hed acquired it. There 
were issues with the cars paintwork as well as the gearbox/clutch problem.
In regard to the cars paintwork, Id also seen that Mr R accepted he had taken the car 
knowing about this. I thought a car of that age would be expected to have some 
cosmetic damage and this wasnt something that would have affected its satisfactory 
quality. Complaints about scratches on the paintwork wouldnt have entitled Mr R to be 
able to reject the car.
Mr R said that he had raised his right to reject the car within the first 30 days after 
inception of the credit agreement. I accepted from the timelines Id seen that Mr R had 
raised an issue with the gearbox sticking within the first few days of acquiring the car. 
However, Mr R had also accepted the dealership carrying out repairs to the car which 
appeared, from the independent engineers report, to have been replacing the gearbox oil 
and bleeding the clutch fluid. He took the car back following these repairs.
Mr R said these repairs hadnt fixed the problem and that the dealership had refused to help 
him further. The dealership didnt agree with that. Mr R then took the car for a health check 
at a third-party garage.
Id seen that Mr R had said that this health check had revealed an issue with the clutch, 
and it fell under an amber marking. But Im afraid Mr R was mistaken in that. Looking at 
this health check report no issue with the clutch was found and it was marked as green. 
The issues found related to a nail in a tyre and the exhaust bracket. I understood that the 
dealership had agreed to look at the exhaust bracket issue.
Mr R said that the dealerships refusal to assist him invalidated the warranty he had with 
the car. But Id also seen that the warranty wasnt a stand-alone product purchased 
separately under the credit agreement, it had come with the car. This would have meant the warranty wasnt supplied by Moneybarn and so it wouldnt be responsible for it. A 
complaint about whether or not the warranty covered a repair would have to be made to 
the company that had provided it.
However, as set out above, the dealership disputed that it had refused to assist Mr R 
and said it had been willing to look at the exhaust bracket issue after it had received the 
health check report. I thought the supplying dealer would have been entitled to say it 
wouldnt assist with the tyre since this appeared to be a wear and tear issue and I 
wouldnt have expected that to fall under any warranty.
While I appreciated Mr R considered that his relationship had broken down with the 
supplying dealer and it had invalidated the warranty, on the evidence Id seen, that 
wouldnt have entitled Mr R to cancel the credit agreement with Moneybarn.
Mr R also said he had been advised by the broker to stop paying the monthly payments 
under the credit agreement. I was surprised by this advice because this would be a breach 
of the agreements terms and conditions. I couldnt reasonably say that if the broker had 
given that advice to Mr R that Moneybarn was in any way bound by it.
Moneybarn arranged for the car to be independently inspected at the end of April 2021. 
This engineer was unable to replicate any fault with the cars gearbox or clutch following a 
test drive. They provided a possible explanation for the burning smell and knocking noise 
Mr R said he had been experiencing.
Mr R disagreed with the conclusion of the independent engineer as he said the issue with 
the gearbox only arose after journeys of around 100 miles and when the engine was 
warm. He had provided a letter from a third-party garage which confirmed the fault as 
described by him. Although I appreciated this would be of disappointment to Mr R, I wasnt 
persuaded by the letter from the third-party garage. Unlike the findings set out in the 
independent engineers report it gave little detail and didnt set out how far any test drive, 
if any, had been undertaken. And, since the test drive according to Mr R would have had 
to have been for some considerable time/distance, I would also have expected that there 
would have been a cost associated with this particular inspection by the third-party 
garage. I hadnt seen that there was such a cost to Mr R. Weighing up these two reports, I 
therefore preferred the independent engineers report.
As I thought there was no fault present with the car when inspected by the independent 
engineer then I didnt think the earlier repair to the cars gearbox and clutch had failed. I 
thought the car was of satisfactory quality. This means that I didnt agree Mr R had been 
entitled to reject the car and hand it back in July 2021.
I appreciated Moneybarn had collected the car but as it was its property, then I wasnt 
surprised it had done so. And I didnt agree that by doing so, that this in way suggested 
that Moneybarn had considered Mr R had been entitled to reject the car and cancel the 
agreement. I thought Moneybarn was entitled to consider that Mr R was in breach of the 
conditional sale agreement.
Mr R had raised concern that he was unaware whether the car had now been sold and if 
so, what price it had fetched. But as Mr R was in breach of the agreement then 
Moneybarn was under no obligation to inform him as to any sales price fetched for the 
car and/or offset that amount from the balance owed by him. Moneybarn was entitled to 
enforce the terms contained in the agreement as to the amount owed when it had been 
terminated early.
Moneybarn was also be entitled to report adverse information about this agreement to Mr Rs credit file if arrears accrued on this account.
So, on the evidence Id seen and for the reasons given above I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Moneybarn has agreed with my provisional view and Mr R hasnt asked me to 
reconsider any parts of my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although neither party has asked me to look again at my provisional decision, I have 
reviewed the evidence that was provided and considered whether my conclusions were fair 
and reasonable. I havent changed my view.
Im still satisfied that the repairs carried out on the clutch by the dealership hadnt failed and 
that the independent engineers report was accurate in regard to the quality of the car. So, 
Mr R hadnt been entitled to reject the car.
And as Mr R has chosen to terminate the agreement early, then he will be liable, as set out 
in the terms and conditions of the agreement, for the balance that is outstanding. Moneybarn 
will also be entitled to report any adverse information about this account to the credit 
reference agencies should arrears accrue.
My final decision
For the reasons given, and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr R, Im 
not upholding his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman