DRN-4162563
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that AWP P&C SA declined a claim they made on their travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a travel insurance policy which was issued on 18 June 2022. The 
insurance was to cover a holiday taking place in early September 2022, and which was due 
to last a month. Mrs R wasnt asked to complete a medical screening when she applied for 
the policy.
A few days later, on 22 June 2022, Mrs R contacted AWP to complete medical screening 
and declared that she had a pre-existing mental health condition. In August 2022 Mrs R 
contacted AWP to say that she was looking to cancel her trip. In summary, 
Mrs Rs daughter had attempted to commit suicide. Her subsequent claim was on the basis 
that her mental health had deteriorated following her daughters attempted suicide.  
Mr and Mrs R claimed on their travel insurance policy. AWP declined the claim but did offer 
some compensation for the delays in handling the claim. Mr and Mrs R made a complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. He 
recommended AWP should reassess the claim because he didnt think theyd fairly declined 
it. He also noted that AWP had sent two emails to Mr and Mrs R agreeing to settle the claim 
in full. And he increased the compensation offered to a total of £200. This recommendation 
was accepted by both AWP and Mr and Mrs R and the further compensation was paid to 
them. 
However, the complaint was re-opened because AWP again declined the claim, but for a 
different reason. They said that Mrs R had taken out the policy around the same time that 
her GP had said shed started to experience symptoms. AWP said Mrs Rs symptoms were 
linked to her daughters health and her own mental health had deteriorated as a result. AWP 
concluded that the claim therefore wasnt covered because Mrs R would have been aware of 
this at the time the policy was issued. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint again and thought that AWP should pay the claim 
and 8% simple interest. He didnt think AWP could fairly decline the claim as they didnt have 
any evidence relating to Mrs Rs daughters health. And, he didnt think theyd fairly 
concluded Mr and Mrs R were aware of the circumstances surrounding their daughters 
health during the relevant period. The investigator also highlighted that there had been no 
explanation about the two emails sent to Mr and Mrs R saying that the claim would be paid. 
AWP didnt agree. They said the policy was purchased around seven days before the GP 
said there was an onset of Mrs Rs symptoms and no medical declaration was made until the 
day before the approximate onset of symptoms. They said that given the policy had only 
been in force for a short period of time, and Mrs R had been treated for seven years, it was 
fair and reasonable to conclude that Mrs R was aware of the deterioration in her health at 
the time. 
AWP said theyd also explored the circumstances surrounding Mrs Rs daughters health as 
this was the original reason given for cancellation. AWP acknowledged theyd not asked for 
more information about Mrs Rs daughter. But they said, given the timescales involved, it 
was reasonable to assume that Mrs R was aware of her daughters medical condition when 
she purchased the policy a week prior to the approximate onset of symptoms. In relation to 
the two emails advising the claim would be settled in full they pointed out that these hadnt 
been received by Mr and Mrs R. 
These further points didnt change our investigators thoughts about the outcome of this 
complaint. So, the complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AWP has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. AWP also has a 
responsibility to provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim. 
The policy terms and conditions
On page nine of the policy terms and conditions the policy terms say: 
It is very important that you read the following and declare any existing medical 
conditions to us. 
1. You will not be covered for any directly or indirectly related claims (see note at 
the end of this section) arising from the following if in the 12 months before taking 
out this insurance or booking your trip (whichever is later), you: 
a) Have been prescribed medication; 
b) Have received treatment or attended a medical practitioner for any medical 
condition; 
c) Have attended a hospital or a clinic as an out-patient or in-patient 
d) Have been referred for tests, investigations, treatment, surgery or are 
awaiting results; 
e) Have been diagnosed as having a terminal illness. 
Unless you have declared any existing medical conditions to us and we have 
confirmed cover in writing. 
Under the cancellation section of cover the policy terms say there is cover if: 
1. You or a travelling companion becomes ill or injured, or develops a medical 
condition disabling enough to make you cancel your trip
2. A family member who is not travelling with you becomes ill or injured, or develops 
a medical condition 
The following condition applies: a) The illness, injury or medical condition must be considered life threatening by a 
doctor or require hospitalisation. 
There are general exclusions which say: 
This policy does not provide cover for any loss that results directly or indirectly from 
any of the following general exclusions if they affect you, a travelling companion or a 
family member: 
1. Any loss, condition or event that was known, foreseeable, intended or expected 
when your trip was booked. 
2. Pre-existing medical conditions, unless they meet the conditions outlined under 
the Health declaration and health exclusions section. 
Was it fair for AWP to decline the claim? 
Its not been disputed that Mrs R wasnt asked medical screening questions when she took 
out the policy. So, theres no suggestion that she failed to declare her own pre-existing 
condition at the time the policy was issued.   
In any event, Mrs R declared her existing condition within a few days of setting up the policy. 
That seems reasonable as shed have needed time to look at the policy terms and get in 
touch with AWP to complete the screening. 
AWP havent suggested Mrs R failed to answer any of the screening questions incorrectly or 
failed to give them an accurate representation of her own medical history. Mrs R declared 
her existing medical condition and AWP confirmed cover. So, the condition was accepted in 
line with the health declaration section of the policy terms. That means, based on the 
evidence available to me, Mrs R was covered by the policy for the condition she declared. 
Theres no evidence to suggest AWP wouldnt have offered Mrs R cover if theyd known 
shed experienced more recent symptoms relating to her mental health. I also note that at 
that time she still hadnt seen her GP and didnt do so until a few weeks later. 
Ive taken into account the general exclusions Ive referred to above. But general exclusion 
one refers to, Any loss, condition or event that was known, foreseeable, intended or 
expected when your trip was booked. It doesnt refer to what was foreseeable at the time 
the policy was taken out. Its accepted that Mrs R didnt expect to cancel when the trip was 
booked in 2021. General exclusion two refers to the health declaration and health exclusions 
section. But, as Ive outlined above, Mrs R had declared her medical condition. And AWP 
hasnt pointed to any other sections of the policy in support of their position. 
Ive taken into account AWPs points around the medical evidence, but they havent changed 
my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
Mrs R first contacted AWP on 12 August 2022 to let them she thought she would be unable 
to go on holiday. She later submitted a claim form which said: 
Our daughter is very mentally unwell and this too had a very, very big impact on 
mental health (my daughter tried to end her own life). I have become very unwell and 
cannot be away for a month. 
She said that the date she became aware of the need to cancel her trip was 23 August 2022. The medical form from the GP is dated 25 August 2022. In one section of the form the GP 
said the date of any serious deterioration was on 13 July 2022. This was also the date of the 
first consultation with the GP. In that section the GP said the date of serious deterioration 
was the 23 June 2022 and he also said this was the approximate date symptoms started. 
Mrs R was also then prescribed anti-psychotic medication on 1 August 2022. 
Ive listened to a call from Mrs R to AWP on 12 August 2022. She said her daughter was 
mentally not very well. She queried whether theyd be able to claim under those 
circumstances as it would be hard for them to be away for a month. She explained her 
daughter was 18, had tried to end her life and had learning disabilities.
Ive also listened to a further call from Mrs R to AWP on 22 August 2022. In this short call 
Mrs R explained that her daughter was mentally unwell, as was she. She said her daughters 
GP was unable to do the form, but her GP could do the form for her. She queried whether 
she would need to complete a new form and was told she didnt need to. 
Im satisfied that Mrs R had demonstrated that she had, on the face of it, a valid claim under 
the policy. Its clear from the form and the calls that the root cause of the cancellation was 
Mrs Rs daughters condition and the subsequent impact on her mental health. I think, on the 
basis of the information provided, Mrs R had demonstrated she had a valid claim for 
consideration and provided enough evidence to substantiate it. 
I can understand why AWP may have had queries about some aspects of the medical 
evidence and the date of the medical screening. But I dont think they took reasonable steps 
to get to grips with the overall circumstances of the claim and or the rationale for declining it. 
Mrs R explained during the second call that her daughters GP was unable to do the form. 
And its clear from Mrs Rs claim that her own health issues were rooted in her daughters 
attempted suicide. 
Based on the evidence Ive been provided with AWP hasnt sought to understand the more 
detailed background to the claim, including establishing a proper timeline of events or 
obtaining more medical information to provide a more detailed overview of the 
circumstances. Instead, AWP has assumed that Mrs R would have known about the need to 
cancel the holiday when she completed the medical screening or when the policy was 
issued. I dont think the call of the 23 August suggests that Mrs R was giving a different 
reason for claiming  rather it seems more likely she was looking at the medical evidence 
she could reasonably obtain. 
There was an opportunity here, and at later points in the claim journey, to ask for more 
medical information in support of the claim. For example, theres no clear information about 
the date of the attempted suicide. Theres also no detailed medical information about how 
that linked to Mrs Rs GP symptoms around the 23 June 2022, her first GP appointment on 
13 July, the prescription for medication on the 1 August and her call to AWP on the 
12 August. AWP also havent explored why the GP thought there was a serious deterioration 
in Mrs Rs health on 13 July 2022. Given the circumstances surrounding the claim I think AWP should have explored the detail 
surrounding both Mrs Rs health and her daughters health in more depth before declining 
the claim. Theres no compelling evidence Mrs R was aware shed need to claim when she 
completed the screening. Nor is there any persuasive evidence she was expecting to claim 
due to her daughters health when she took it out. AWP hasnt taken opportunities to 
understand more about the circumstances of the claim. And, in this case I think it would have 
been reasonable to do so. For example, they could have asked for more information from 
Mrs Rs GP, explored whether Mrs R could obtain medical information about her daughter or 
requested more detailed testimony from Mrs R about the timeline of events. 
Ive thought about whether its fair and reasonable to direct AWP to assess the claim, rather 
than direct them to pay it. I dont think it is in the circumstances of this case. Mrs R declared 
her medical condition and it was accepted. I think AWP has had ample opportunity to 
investigate this claim, which is sensitive due to the circumstances. I think the root cause of 
the cancellation was the situation relating to Mrs Rs daughter  AWP hasnt sought to 
understand the wider context and has, in my view, made assumptions about the chronology 
in relation to the purchase of the policy. I also bear in mind the length of time since the claim 
was made and that AWP has had a recent opportunity to review the claim. So, I dont think 
its fair and reasonable to give them a further opportunity to assess the claim. I think they 
should now pay the claim instead.  
I think the total payment of £200 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr 
and Mrs R by mistakes in handling their claim. Theyve accepted that compensation and its 
been paid to them. So, I wont comment further on that aspect of the complaint. 
Putting things right
I think AWP should put things right by: 
Paying the claim taking into account any relevant policy limits and any excess 
payable 
Paying 8% simple interest from the date the claim was declined until the date of 
settlement.
If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs R a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue and Customs if appropriate.   
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman