DRN-3542870
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about an early repayment charge (ERC) that was applied when he 
repaid his mortgage with Principality Building Society in 2021. He said that he didnt 
understand why he was charged the ERC given he had paid a significant amount of interest 
while the mortgage was in place. Mr M also considers that the amount of the ERC charged 
was excessive. 
In settlement of the complaint, Mr M wants Principality to refund the amount of the ERC plus 
interest and for it to make a further payment to compensate him.
What happened
In early 2018 Mr M attached a new interest rate product to his existing repayment mortgage 
with Principality. The interest rate product was due to expire on 31 May 2023 and an ERC 
would apply if the mortgage was repaid before that date. The amount of the ERC was 
decreasing and was set at 5% of the amount repaid until 31 May 2020, it then decreased to 
3% until 31 May 2022 and 1% in the last year.
Mr M repaid his mortgage in April 2021 and a 3% ERC was applied. Mr M complained to 
Principality about being charged the ERC.
Principality explained that in order to provide its customers with mortgages, it had to raise 
funds on the money markets and pay that money back, with associated costs. The ERC it 
set was to cover the costs in the event of the mortgage being repaid before the end of the 
preferential interest rate period. Principality highlighted that Mr M had agreed to pay an ERC 
if he redeemed the mortgage within the interest rate product term and it was satisfied the 
ERC had appropriately been applied. It confirmed that it would not be refunding the ERC.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with the response he received and asked this service to consider his 
complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She explained that it was Mr Ms brokers responsibility to explain the ERC to him 
and ensure that he understood it before he applied for the new interest rate product. It was 
confirmed that a lender was allowed to charge an ERC to cover the costs to it of a consumer 
repaying their mortgage early and the investigator was satisfied that the ERC was clearly set 
out in the offer Mr M was given. 
Mr M didnt accept the investigators conclusions and the complaint was referred to me for 
decision. After reviewing the complaint, I requested some further information from 
Principality about how, in 2018, it had estimated the ERC that it attached to the interest rate 
product Mr M added to his mortgage. This was provided. 
I issued a provisional decision on 6 June 2022 setting out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
As a starting point, I am satisfied that the ERC was clearly documented in the mortgage 
offer that was sent to Mr M when he asked to add the interest rate product to his mortgage in 
2018. He accepted that offer and the ERC that was associated with it, even if he thought, at 
the time, it was unlikely he would have to incur it. When Mr M paid off the mortgage early, it 
wasnt unreasonable for Principality to charge the ERC that hed accepted as part of the 
contract hed entered into.
As for Mr Ms concern that the amount of the ERC is unfair, I would explain that in order to 
be able to lend to consumers, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with loans made to 
the lenders customers, there are costs associated with borrowing that money. When the 
lender decides the format of the loans its going to use a tranche of borrowed money for, it 
has to include an assessment of the potential risks associated with doing so. Included in 
those risks is that some customers may repay their borrowing early. When that happens 
some of the money expected to be received by the lender will not be, but the lender remains 
liable for its own cost of borrowing the money. In addition, if the lender repays its borrowing 
early, there may be costs associated with that too. 
In light of this, lenders are allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs of 
consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but 
is more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a similar 
type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on the 
individual lenders experience of the likelihood of early repayment and assessment of future 
conditions. The regulations allow a lender to calculate ERCs in this way. It also fulfils the 
regulators requirement that a consumer is told in advance of taking the mortgage what the 
ERC will be and is given an example of it in monetary terms. 
Mr M considers the ERC is unfair because of the amount of interest he paid on the mortgage 
before he paid it off. As I have explained above there are many factors that are taken into 
account when an ERC is calculated. Under the rules, provided the charge is a reasonable 
pre-estimate of the loss suffered by Principality if the mortgage is repaid early, it can make 
the charge. I have seen the evidence of the calculations, although that evidence cant be 
made publicly available as its commercially sensitive and confidential. I am satisfied the 
amount charged in this case was a reasonable pre-estimate of loss. I dont think the charge 
should be refunded.
Mr M didnt accept my conclusions. He said that he knows someone working in a bank who 
had told him that not all lenders make a loss from early repayment of a mortgage, but they 
still charge an ERC and profit from doing so. As such, he plans to refer the matter to the 
press. Mr M didnt comment specifically on my conclusions nor did he provide further 
evidence for me to consider. 
Principality confirmed receipt of the provisional decision and confirmed it had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further specific comment on the merits of the complaint or 
evidence, I see no reason to change my conclusions about this complaint. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
15 July 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman