DRN-1916157
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R took out a joint packaged bank account (PBA) with HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC) in 2007 and they say it was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a joint HSBC Plus Account (HPA) in December 2007. 
The HPA was re-branded in February 2010 as an Advance account with added insurance 
benefits and the same price. 
Mr and Mrs R closed the account in October 2012.
Mr and Mrs R say that they were advised to take out the original HPA, but they didnt 
understand it, were misinformed and it wasnt right for them.
HSBC says that Mr and Mrs R understood what they were buying and chose to take the 
HPA out.
Our adjudicator didnt think that HSBC mis-sold the account. Mr and Mrs R disagree so the 
case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Mr and Mrs R say that Mr R moved to the UK in 2003, and Mrs R moved to the UK in 2007. 
They say that Mrs R needed a bank account and so they went together into a branch of 
HSBC in February 2007 to open one for her. They say that HSBC would not give Mrs R any 
account on her own but agreed to open a new joint account for both of them provided it was 
a fee-paying account. They say they didnt speak good English at the time and thought they 
were told they had to take out the joint HPA to improve their credit score and be able to take 
out overdrafts, mortgages or loans.
HSBC says that Mr and Mrs R understood all the options available to them and chose to 
take out the joint HPA.
Firstly, I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs R knew they had a choice whether to take out 
the fee paying HPA, and whether they chose to do so.
HSBC has provided evidence that Mr R had taken out a fee free bank account with it in 
January 2004, three years before Mr and Mrs R took out their joint HPA. At the time of Mr R 
opening his account in 2004, HSBC says he told them he was studying English at a college 
in London. HSBC has provided evidence that Mr R had both changed his type of bank 
account and taken out a loan prior to 2007.
So, at the time of the sale, I think its more likely than not that Mr R could speak reasonable 
English and would have understood the options being described to them. And he could have 
explained them to Mrs R.
Mr and Mrs R say that HSBC told them they had to take out a fee-paying account to improve 
their credit score, and get an overdraft, mortgage or loan and this was the only reason they 
opened it.
But Mr R had both an agreed overdraft on his individual account and taken a loan before 
they took out the HPA, so I think he was aware he didnt need to take out the HPA for that 
reason, and I think its more likely than not that he would have challenged this if HSBC had 
said it. And HSBC has provided evidence that no overdraft was ever requested on the joint 
HPA and Mrs R didnt take out a loan until 2010.
So, I dont think I can say fairly that this was the main reason they took out the account as I 
would need to if I were to uphold their complaint on this point.
Mr and Mrs R say that HSBC told Mrs R that she could not have any account on her own. 
HSBC says it has recorded that she had no income at the time of the sale, and its possible 
that if she had no prospect of a job, this would have made it difficult for her to have an 
account on her own. But Mrs R says she had just started work and she was living with Mr R 
at a fixed address. And she would have had to meet the criteria for having a bank account 
even if she was included in a joint account. So, I think it more likely than not that HSBC 
didnt tell her she couldnt have any account on her own.
So, while I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Rs honest recollections, I think its more likely than not 
that their memory is incorrect, which is understandable after so many years. And in my view, 
they knew they had a choice whether to pay a fee for an account or not and they chose to 
take the HPA out and pay the fees.
HSBC says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
HPA to Mr and Mrs R personally or advise them to take it out. Mr and Mrs R say that HSBC 
did advise them to take it out. 
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive decided to look at the sale as if it were 
advised as this is to Mr and Mrs Rs advantage and doesnt change the outcome of my 
decision. 
This means HSBC had to ensure that the HPA was suitable for Mr and Mrs R, and provide 
them with good enough information about the HPA so they could make an informed decision 
about whether to have it or not.
The HPA benefits included worldwide family travel insurance; fee free cash withdrawals 
abroad; better rates for overdrafts, credit cards and savings accounts; and a range of other 
offers. It cost £12.95 per month.
I think the HPA was suitable for Mr and Mrs R and Ill explain whyHSBC and Mr and Mrs R agree that Mr and Mrs R travelled regularly so the travel insurance 
covered them both for multiple trips. HSBC has provided evidence that Mrs and Mrs R 
benefitted from the following; multiple use of overseas fee free cash withdrawals; preferential 
rate on a flexible savings account with a substantial balance; and multiple credit card interest 
rebates.  
I also think HSBC provided Mr and Mrs R with enough information about the account to make 
an informed decision because HSBC was trying to sell the account to Mr and Mrs R; they 
made use of the benefits; and I dont think there was anything HSBC didnt tell them about the 
HPA that would have put them off buying it.
I can see nothing in Mr and Mrs Rs personal circumstances that would have stopped them 
using the HPAs benefits. Mr and Mrs R say they had alternative travel insurance cover, but it 
was for them to decide what they wanted to use and when.
So, in my view Mr and Mrs R knew they had a choice about the HPA, and they chose to take 
it out. I think the HPA was suitable for them. And I dont think there is anything HSBC didnt 
tell them that would have changed their minds and put them off taking out the HPA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman