DRN-2291430
The complaint
Mrs C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) informed her she was in 
persistent debt and it would close her credit card account.
What happened
Mrs C has held a credit card account with RBS since 2002. She acknowledges that she falls 
within the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) definition of persistent debt, but says shes 
never missed a payment or paid less than the minimum payment due. In early 2020, Mrs C 
received a letter from RBS advising her of repayment options for her balance, but was also 
advised the account would be closed. She feels this approach goes against recent FCA 
guidance concerning persistent debt and wants RBS to allow her to repay the balance within 
48 months and keep the account open.
RBS says it has given Mrs C a justified reason for making the decision to close her account. 
It says following an internal review, a commercial decision was made to close the account. 
RBS empathised with Mrs C, but said that ultimately, it didnt make good lending sense to 
allow her to continue using the card, increasing the debt and incurring more interest. So RBS 
says it has followed its persistent debt process  and the action its taken is in line with the 
rules set out by the FCA.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She acknowledged RBS obligation to lend 
responsibly and thought the way Mrs C was using her credit card account would have given 
RBS cause for concern. So she thought RBS decision to close the account was reasonable 
under the circumstances.
Mrs C didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS says this was a commercial decision which was made in line with its terms and 
conditions. The terms and conditions for the account allow RBS to close the account if it has 
a good reason, which includes where it provides notice that it intends to do so. But it should 
also follow the relevant FCA rules. 
The FCA introduced rules concerning customers who were in persistent debt, which included 
further guidance for customers who had been in persistent debt for 36 months (PD36). The 
FCA reminded credit card providers of the regulatory requirements relevant to persistent 
debt, which included that providers must:
identify all consumers still in persistent debt at 36 months and help them repay their 
balance more quickly; and
only suspend or cancel a customers credit card where this is objectively justified
The FCAs Dear CEO letter of 3 February 2020 confirmed that:
We are also concerned that some firms may be planning a blanket suspension of credit 
cards for all their PD36 customers.
The PD rules only require the suspension or cancellation of cards where a customer:
a) does not respond to the repayment options proposed within the time specified by the
firm;
b) confirms that one or more of the proposed options are affordable but that they will not
make increased payments.
The FCAs rules dont say that a credit card provider cant close a customers account if they 
are in persistent debt. Under the rules, a suspension or cancellation is required if the 
customer doesnt respond to the repayment options proposed, or refuses to make increased 
payments despite them being affordable. A provider can suspend or cancel a customers 
credit card where this is objectively justified. So whilst a credit card provider cant suspend or 
cancel a customers credit card account solely because theyre in persistent debt, it can still 
do so if the reason for it is objectively justified.
With this in mind, RBS were required to consider its credit card customer portfolio and 
contact any identified PD36 customers to help them repay their balance more quickly. 
Persistent debt is defined by the FCA as a customer who has paid more in interest and 
charges than they have repaid of their borrowing over an 18 month period. Mrs C falls into 
this definition, as well as the PD36 definition.
RBS wrote to Mrs C in early 2020, as required, to give her options of repaying the debt to 
help her repay it more quickly. So Im satisfied RBS has done what was expected of it under 
the FCA rules. The issue for me to consider is whether it was fair for RBS to inform Mrs C 
that it would close her account as a result.
RBS took a commercial decision to inform Mrs C that her credit card account would be 
closed and said this was because of its obligation to lend responsibly. Having considered the 
circumstances of Mrs Cs credit card account, I think RBS decision was reasonable and I 
will explain why.
I can see that RBS sent Mrs C the notices it was required to send her at key milestones to 
inform her that she was in persistent debt and was likely to be a PD36 customer. This 
resulted in the PD36 notice being sent to her with options of repayment. I agree that the way 
Mrs C was operating her credit card account at the time was likely to give RBS cause for 
concern. The balance had steadily increased over time and was close to being at its limit. It 
had previously sent notices of persistent debt to her and the situation hadnt improved. 
Mrs C had mostly been making the minimum payments to her account and was continuing to 
spend on the card. From the statements Ive seen, this was essentially keeping the account 
balance consistently just below its limit.
RBS had concerns that it wouldnt be responsible lending to allow the running of the account 
to continue as it was. Mrs C hadnt agreed to a repayment plan to clear the debt. I appreciate 
she says she was willing to do so once the complaint process had been exhausted. But from 
RBS point of view, nothing was agreed. In the circumstances here I think its decision was 
justified and so I dont consider RBS has gone against the FCA rules, or given notice of 
account closure unfairly or without good reason.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman