DRN-4251999
The complaint
Ms G complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly removed contents in storage cover 
from her home insurance policy and didnt let her know. Shes also unhappy she now has to 
pay extra for this cover.
What happened
Aviva is the underwriter of this policy so Ive referred to it throughout as it is responsible for 
this complaint.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here. 
Ms G had a home insurance policy underwritten by Aviva. In previous years, this 
included cover for some items she held in storage away from her home. But in the  
renewal year 2022 to 2023, the cover was removed. 
Ms G only became aware of this when she moved her contents from one storage site 
to another and the new storage site asked to see details of her insurance cover.
When Ms G made enquiries with Aviva, she was told the contents in storage cover 
was now an add-on to the policy and a higher premium of around £330 would be 
charged.
Ms G complained to Aviva about the lack of communication about the withdrawal of 
cover and the increased premium she would have to pay to have the add-on. Aviva 
explained it reassessed the cover available under the policy each year at renewal 
and it asked policyholders to check policy documentation to ensure cover still met 
their requirements. It confirmed the increased premium and explained this couldnt be 
reduced. But it paid Ms G £50 as a gesture of goodwill and said it would pass on 
feedback.
Ms G raised a complaint with this Service. Our Investigator considered the evidence 
but didnt uphold the complaint as she said Aviva was free to make changes to cover 
at renewal and she was satisfied the premium increase had been calculated 
correctly. She thought Aviva should have communicated the cover changes more 
clearly but thought the £50 it had already paid was fair in the circumstances.
Ms G asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The removal of contents in storage cover 
An insurer is generally free to decide the terms of a policy and the cover provided 
under it. In this case, Aviva made the decision not to offer this cover as standard at 
renewal following a change in its underwriting criteria. This was a commercial 
decision which I wouldnt interfere with.
Aviva has said it asks policyholders to check renewal policy documentation to ensure 
cover is still appropriate for their needs and this would have highlighted to Ms G the 
change in cover. But Aviva has seemingly accepted it made an error when it didnt 
inform Ms G about the removal of the contents in storage cover. It's apologised for 
this and paid her £50.
Having considered Ms Gs testimony, its clear the error caused Ms G distress and 
inconvenience. Having considered everything carefully, mindful of our general 
approach to compensation, Im satisfied this offer is an appropriate way for Aviva to 
recognise its error. I realise Ms G doesnt think this is enough, but Im satisfied its fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.
The premium for the contents in storage cover
Following the change in cover provided at renewal, Aviva told Ms G she could 
purchase contents in storage cover as an add-on for a premium of around £330, but 
she didnt think this was fair.
Its up to Aviva to decide how much it charges for this cover. Ive carefully considered 
its commercially sensitive underwriting criteria on this issue and am satisfied the 
premium for this add-on has been calculated correctly and in line with these 
guidelines. Im also satisfied Ms G hasnt been treated any differently than other 
consumers requesting this add-on in the way the premium has been calculated.
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require Aviva to waive the premium for 
this cover as a consequence of its communication error, for which it has already paid 
appropriate compensation. 
Conclusion
For the reasons Ive explained above, I wont be asking Aviva to do any more on this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman