DRN-2804903
The complaint
Mrs J complained about Financial Administration Services Limiteds (trading as Fidelity) 
actions in transferring in her ISA investments from another provider.
What happened
Mrs J believes it didnt handle this process fairly or correctly and that it withheld information 
from her. She says that its various failings delayed the process and affected her ability to 
reinvest the cash, resulting in a loss. She also argues that Fidelity encashed some 
investments without her permission or knowledge.
An investigator at this service didnt believe the complaint should be upheld, saying:
Its important to note that we dont act as the regulators of the financial industry, that 
would be the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Therefore, our service is unable to 
tell a business that a process or procedure is incorrect or recommend any changes
Mrs J signed a contract with Fidelity agreeing that: If we do not offer the same share 
class as the one you have invested in, we will switch your investment into another 
share class of the same fund. If any of the investments in your ISA are not available 
on FundsNetwork, or are not eligible for re-registration, your current ISA manager will 
sell your investment and send the proceeds to us. We will place this money into 
cash, from where you will be able to switch it into other investments.
This explains why several funds totalling just over £20,000 had to be encashed, with 
this money being then moved into her Fidelity cash account
While it must have been distressing for Mrs J to see that part of her investment had 
been sold to cash, Fidelity gave prior notice via the re-registration and the authority 
letter which Mrs J signed
Looking at the evidence, she was satisfied that Fidelity had acted correctly and in line 
with the signed agreement. She appreciated that some correspondence may have 
caused confusion to Mrs J but, overall, she felt the transfer was done correctly
Mrs Js husband said (on her behalf):
The investigator has not told them what information she requested from Fidelity, nor 
did she get in touch to get their 'side of the story'
Her 'decision' simply recounts information from documents provided by Fidelity and 
does not in any way reflect their side of the story
She has not mentioned the question of delays and why they happened - or taken into 
account their impact on the lost returns (while the money was kept in cash)
Neither has she mentioned the lack of transparency in the way Fidelity failed to keep 
Mrs J informed promptly about the sale of her assets and failed to update her 
transaction history to reflect the sales. Both of these issues were raised with Fidelity 
in the secure messages which passed between his wife and the company  and was 
part of her complaint to this service
His wife asked why part of her investments had been sold and transferred as cash 
but this wasnt answered by Fidelity, only becoming clear after this services 
intervention
The investigator said she: "cant fairly say prior notice wasnt given" but neither can 
she say prior notice was given. Therefore, it is clear she has given the benefit of any 
doubt on this issue to Fidelity. Where in FOS guidance does it state that this 
approach is encouraged or even allowed?
His wife had never argued that the transfer of assets was illegal or corrupt; rather that 
the level of service provided by Fidelity to a new customer was abysmally poor and 
that its compensation was inadequate
Mr J also raised various points about how this service had dealt with his wifes complaint. 
The investigator explained that we have a separate process to deal with complaints about 
this service and gave Mr J the necessary information to pursue this issue separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. As such, there is little I 
can add to her reasoning.
From what I have read, it seems as if Mrs J accepts that Fidelity was entitled to sell 
shares/funds which it either didnt hold on its platform or didnt have a comparable share 
class available. Instead, she feels it should have made this clearer and kept her informed of 
its proposed actions while encashing various shares and, by definition, this money no longer 
enjoying growth potential.
I am afraid I do not agree. I am satisfied that Fidelity made clear what it would do in these 
situations and I do not accept that it needed to offer an ongoing  commentary on the 
process.
In its Final Response Letter (FRL), Fidelity explained what it had done and why, 
acknowledging that certain information (about the dates of the encashments) may 
understandably have been confusing. Also, it accepted that it didnt  on one occasion  
provide clear and accurate information. Hence, it offered Mrs J £25 in compensation.
In fact, I am satisfied that its FRL did satisfactorily explain what had occurred and why; I 
dont agree that it sought to hide information or withheld information until Mrs Js complaint 
was assessed by this service.
Crucially, I dont believe that any of these issues affected the value of Mrs Js assets (either 
investments or cash) so I dont agree that it materially affected her ability to reinvest the 
cash. As such, I can see no grounds on which to conclude that Fidelitys minor 
communication failing caused Mrs J an actual loss.Overall, I am not persuaded that Fidelity did anything substantially wrong. This includes the 
alleged delays, poor communication or misinformation (beyond that it admitted to in its FRL).
Finally, I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs J are unhappy about how this service has considered 
their complaint, including believing that they were not given sufficient opportunity to put their 
side of the story. However, I do not believe it is necessary to seek further information or 
evidence from Mrs J in order to reach a fair and reasonable decision given what is, in my 
view, is conclusive evidence about the issues in dispute.
Mr and Mrs J can, however, still pursue a service complaint against either the investigator 
or myself, via the procedure explained by the investigator, if they remain dissatisfied by how 
this service has dealt with their complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman