DRN-2864705
The complaint
Mr E complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, prevented him 
from switching his bank account on several occasions in August and September 2020. He 
says he missed out on switching incentives as a result. He also complains about Tesco 
Banks customer service.
What happened
Mr E held an account with Tesco Bank that he wanted to switch to another bank. He 
attempted the process several times but the bank he was trying to switch to told him itd 
been unsuccessful. They advised him to contact Tesco Bank to find out why.
Mr E says he tried to call Tesco Bank but gave up after waiting too long on the phone. So, 
he resorted to making a complaint in October 2020.
Tesco Bank responded explaining that theyd sent Mr E a letter some months before about 
interest rate changes, which Royal Mail had returned as undelivered  addressee 
unknown. Because of this theyd added a gone away marker (GAM) to Mr Es account and 
blocked his card. This had prevented all activity on the account which is why his switching 
attempts hadnt worked.
Tesco Bank said theyd need to speak with Mr E to remove the GAM and that theyd tried to 
call him since receiving his complaint but hadnt been able to reach him. Tesco Bank also 
said theyd investigate the long call wait times hed experienced if he could provide more 
detail about when hed tried to call.
Mr E wasnt happy with that response. He said hed had no other problems with his post and 
said Tesco Bank should have let him know theyd blocked his account, rather than him 
having to discover this only when hed tried to switch. He thought Tesco Bank were just 
trying to make switching difficult. He acknowledged theyd tried to call him but said this had 
been during his working hours.
What Tesco Bank told us
Tesco Bank explained that when they received the undelivered letter from Royal Mail, they 
blocked Mr Es card for security reasons. So, when Mr E attempted to switch:
we rejected this due to the hold block on the account and let the switching bank 
know by prompting them to get the customer to contact us.
Tesco Bank provided a copy of the letter showing Royal Mails undelivered stamp.
They also told us that although call centre wait times can increase when call volumes are 
higher than forecasted, they dont recognise hold times for their current account team of the 
length Mr E has said he regularly experienced.
What Mr E told us
Mr E said the lack of any attempt by Tesco Bank to contact him and let him know about the 
undelivered mail and subsequent block was entirely unacceptable. He still thought theyd 
managed things this way so that hed give up on his attempt to switch.
He also let us know that although hes now successfully moved his money, it took multiple 
lengthy calls  with a typical wait of about an hour  to get the GAM removed and the block 
lifted.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. He said he thought Tesco Bank had acted 
fairly and reasonably by blocking the account. He said this was a reasonable security 
measure and he couldnt hold Tesco Bank responsible if Royal Mail had marked the letter as 
undelivered incorrectly.
He also didnt think it was unfair of Tesco Bank not to notify Mr E of the block, because the 
block itself would usually be enough to alert an account holder that there was a problem 
when they attempted to use their card. And he didnt think Tesco Bank had blocked Mr Es 
account to prevent him from switching or to cause him to lose out on the incentives offered 
by other banks.
Finally, he accepted its likely Mr E had to spend some time on hold calling Tesco Bank to 
remove the GAM, particularly if he was calling at peak times. But he didnt think it was 
unreasonable of Tesco Bank to want to speak with Mr E. He also didnt think Tesco Bank 
had delayed the removal of the GAM. He thought Mr E could have raised the problem he 
was having with switching sooner.
Mr E didnt accept that. He said Tesco Bank had made zero effort to contact him and hed 
had to turn detective to discover what was causing the switch to fail. He said he wasted 
many hours trying to get Tesco Bank to sort this situation out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator  I dont think Tesco 
Bank have done anything wrong here. So, I dont think theyre responsible for Mr E missing 
out on switching incentives. Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mr E thinks Tesco Bank could have done more to let him know his 
account was blocked, and I can appreciate the frustration he felt at having his attempts at 
switching fail without knowing the reason. But I dont think Tesco Bank were under any 
obligation to notify Mr E that theyd had mail returned by Royal Mail as undelivered, or that 
theyd blocked his card as a security precaution in response to that.
In most cases the act of blocking a customers card will itself prompt a customer to get in 
touch with their bank. The bank can then satisfy themselves its the genuine customer who 
has possession of the card and remove any blocks. In Mr Es case he didnt find out about 
the block until he tried to switch because he didnt try to use the card.Its unfortunate that Mr Es attempts at switching in August and September 2020 werent 
successful and that he missed out on some switching incentives offered by other banks. But 
for me to say that Tesco Bank should compensate Mr E for that Id have to find that Tesco 
Bank unfairly or unreasonably prevented Mr E from switching, and I dont think they did. 
I think they had reasonable cause to apply the GAM and await contact from their customer.
Moving on to the difficulties Mr E has described with getting in contact with Tesco Bank, hes 
said hes had to wait nearly an hour to speak with someone on more than one occasion, 
and so often given up waiting. Thats why he resorted to submitting a written complaint to 
Tesco Banks customer relations department in October 2020. Hes also told our investigator 
that he had to wait almost an hour when he called Tesco Bank in January 2021 to remove 
the GAM. Mr E provided a screen shot of an undated call to a Tesco Bank number  a 
number for online and mobile banking help  which lasted 56 minutes. He said, I cannot 
recall if this was one of the many calls where I eventually gave up holding.
Whilst I dont underestimate how frustrating it can be to wait to get through to a business on 
the phone, particularly when trying to make such calls around your own working hours, I 
cant say Ive seen evidence of poor customer service here.
Tesco Bank responded to Mr Es complaint about his unsuccessful switching attempt within 
six days, with a detailed explanation of what had happened. They also tried to call Mr E to 
remove the GAM in October 2020 and included within their final response letter two 
telephone numbers for him to call; one of which was open until 9pm week days and also until 
3pm at weekends. What Mr Es told us about the numbers he tried, and his screen shot, 
suggest he was using different numbers to these.
Overall, although I dont doubt Mr E spent longer on the phone than he wanted to in order to 
establish why the switch wasnt working and, later, to remove the GAM, I dont agree with 
Mr E that Tesco Bank provided a poor service or acted to discourage him from switching.
As I dont think Tesco Bank unfairly prevented Mr E from switching his account or provided a 
poor service, I wont be asking them to do anything further regarding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman