DRN-2713895
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr W complain about Easi-Drive Limiteds (Easi-Drive) decision to allow their 
car to be written off and their failure to respond to communication. They also complain about 
Easi-Drives delay in dealing with their claim for damage to their wall. Mrs B and Mr W want 
compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused to them and to be put back into the 
position they would have been in had their car been repaired.  
What happened
Mrs B and Mr Ws car and property were damaged by a third party in 2018. A third party 
collided with their parked and unattended car causing it to push through their front wall. Easi-
Drive, an accident management company (AMC), were instructed to manage the repairs.    
Mrs B and Mr Ws car was written off by the third-party insurer but they felt the car was 
repairable and Easi-Drive shouldve done more to challenge this. They also felt Easi-Drive 
were taking too long to deal with the claim and they were having to chase for updates. So 
they complained to Easi-Drive about this. 
Easi-Drive responded and said they were instructed following the accident to provide Mrs B 
and Mr W with credit hire and credit repair services. They explained an independent 
engineer and a manufacturer approved repairer considered the car repairable but they 
received a response from the third-party insurer to say they had deemed the car a total loss. 
They said they then received a payment for the net settlement amount of £15,318 from the 
third-party insurer. They said they understand Mrs B and Mr Ws concerns about the 
valuation of their car and the manner in which it was written off, but this decision was made 
by the third-party insurer so Easi-Drive had no control over this. 
In relation to the claim for other losses, Easi-Drive said the third-party insurer had issues 
appointing a company to inspect the wall and work required. They said the third-party insurer 
had now made arrangements to liaise with Mrs B and Mr W about an inspection. Easi-Drive 
accepted they had let Mrs B and Mr W down with the lack of communication and responses. 
They apologised and offered to reimburse Mrs B and Mr Ws telephone bill of £54.12 and 
pay compensation of £350 for the distress and inconvenience of having to constantly chase. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs B and Mr W. She thought Easi-Drive werent 
responsible for the car being written off and their offer was fair and reasonable for the 
communication issues. Mrs B and Mr W disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Easi-Drives offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand 
Mrs B and Mr W will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Up until 31 March 2019, AMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And 
complaints about AMCs were dealt with by the Legal Ombudsman. On 1 April 2019 the 
regulation of AMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because the events Mrs B and Mr W are complaining 
about took place before this change in regulation, my decision is based on the approach the 
Claims Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman wouldve taken.
I think its important for me to firstly explain Easi-Drives role in this matter. They are an AMC 
who have been instructed on the basis this is a non-fault claim. Theyve been instructed to 
deal with issues arising out of the accident which includes repairs to the car, arranging a hire 
car and liaising with the third-party insurer to settle the claims made by Mrs B and Mr W.
Car being written off
I can see Easi-Drive instruct an engineer in December 2018 and the inspection takes place 
around two weeks later. The engineer prepares a report of the damage and I can see they 
have used appropriate motor trade guides to value the car at £20,900. They consider the car 
to be repairable with repair costs estimated at £10,071.12. This is roughly 48% of the market 
value. I can see Mrs B and Mr W explain that, under the terms of their car finance 
agreement, any repairs need to be carried out by the manufacturer approved repairer. 
Arrangements are then made for a manufacturer approved repairer to inspect the car and 
prepare a report. This report provides a breakdown of the damage and considers the car to 
be repairable. They estimate the repair costs at £11,473.46. Easi-Drive provide the estimate 
to the third-party insurer to authorise the repairs. 
The third-party insurer then email Easi-Drive about two weeks later to say they deem the car 
a total loss. They say the damage is severe with the likelihood of more damage and 
costs, I have been asking the [approved repairer] to carry out a wheel geometry since the 
17/1/19 but still not had this carried out, they have however as I had presumed found more 
damage and the repair costs plus the hire already accrued would deem the [Mrs B and Mr 
Ws car] uneconomical to repair. The third-party insurer then use appropriate motor trade 
guides to calculate a market value for the car. They value the car at £20,918 and, minus the 
salvage at £5,600, they make a settlement offer of £15,318 which is sent to Easi-Drive. 
I understand Mrs B and Mr W wanted their car to be repaired rather than written off. And, 
they have concerns that the third-party insurer have taken into account the hire car charges 
to justify their decision to write off the car. I understand why Mrs B and Mr W are concerned 
by this as insurers generally assess the cost of repair against the market value of the car. 
And, they dont take into consideration any hire car charges. The hire car charges would of 
course be a potential outlay for a third-party insurer looking to settle a claim but its generally 
not included in the assessment of whether a car should be written off. I cant see Easi-Drive 
raise this as an issue at any point prior to the settlement cheque being sent. 
While I do believe Easi-Drive shouldve done more to challenge the third-party insurers view 
on the hire car charges, I have looked at whether I think this wouldve made a difference. 
Easi-Drive do later raise a query about the third-party insurer factoring in the hire car 
charges and they reply confirming they are not prepared to increase the settlement offer. 
This leads the third-party insurer to instruct an engineer to carry out an inspection. This 
takes place in February 2019 with the engineer preparing a report setting out a detailed 
breakdown of the damage and the repairs required. 
The engineer values the car at £15,380 and estimates the total repair costs as £14,378.50. 
And, the engineer says Therefore I recommend that this claim be dealt with on a total loss 
basis. I can see this car valuation is significantly different from the valuation given by the 
initial engineer instructed by Easi-Drive. So, the initial engineer is asked to comment on this and they explain the third-party insurers engineer assessed the valuation using the incorrect 
mileage. Ive looked into this and can see from the third-party insurers engineers report they 
have used a mileage of 95,000 whereas it shouldve been 9,500. 
So, taking this all into account, I think its fair to use the third-party insurers valuation of 
£20,918 as it was calculated using motor-trade guides. These are used for valuing second 
hand vehicles. We find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their 
valuations are based on nationwide research of likely selling prices. And, the valuation 
reached by the third-party insurer is in line with the initial engineers valuation. So, looking at 
the third-party insurers engineers estimate of the repair costs, it represents roughly 69% of 
the market value of the car. An insurer can decide at what value it thinks a car is 
uneconomical to repair. Its general industry practice though that an insurer will consider 
writing off a car if the repairs represent around 60-70% of the market value of the car. This is 
usually because the cost to the insurer of paying for repairs is more than theyd lose on 
paying to write-off the vehicle, when also taking account of any amount they make on its 
salvage. 
So, while I accept Easi-Drive shouldve at least questioned the third-party insurers reasons 
for including the hire charges in their determination, I dont think this wouldve made a 
difference. The information shows the third-party insurer felt there was a likelihood of there 
being more damage and their engineer then finds the repair costs to be 69% of the market 
value of the car. I think its important to add that it was the third-party insurers decision to 
write off the car and not Easi-Drives. I havent seen any evidence which suggests the third-
party insurers wouldve decided to repair the car even if Easi-Drive had challenged them 
about using the hire car charges in their assessment. So, I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint.  
I note Mrs B and Mr W raise points about delays which they feel were caused by Easi-Drive 
and which in turn led to the total car hire charges increasing. They feel the total amount 
wouldnt have been as high as it was and wouldnt have led to the car being written off. For 
the reasons I have given above, I dont believe a lower total for the car hire charges wouldve 
made a difference as the third-party insurers engineer later deemed the car a total loss. So, 
I do take on board what Mrs B and Mr W say but I dont think it wouldve had an impact.     
Claim for damage to wall  
I can see Mrs B and Mr W claim for damage to their wall. Its not fully clear whether, under 
the terms of the agreement between Mrs B and Mr W and Easi-Drive, whether the scope of 
their involvement includes recovery of any costs for damage to the wall. The agreement is 
limited to arranging car hire and repairs. I can see Mrs B and Mr W initially receive a 
payment for temporary emergency repairs and then pursue costs for full repairs. I can see 
Mrs B and Mr W send quotes to Easi-Drive and these are forwarded to the third-party 
insurer. The third-party insurer appoint loss adjusters to look into the claim and Easi-Drive 
email Mrs B and Mr W to say they cant do anything further until they receive a response 
from the loss adjusters in relation to inspecting the damage.   
The third-party insurer then instruct a loss assessor and Easi-Drive email Mrs B and Mr W to 
say the loss assessor has permission to authorise the works. They say the loss assessor 
should now be in a position to authorise the repairs once their valuation of the repairs is 
complete. There is then correspondence between Mrs B and Mr W and the loss assessors 
regarding the valuation of the works that need to be carried out. 
Its clear from the correspondence there is a significant difference between Mrs B and Mr 
Ws quote and what the loss assessors are prepared to pay. The loss assessors write to Mrs 
B and Mr W to say they dont agree with the quotes provided and make a final offer to resolve the claim. They say if Mrs B and Mr W dont agree then they suggest they pursue the 
matter through their own home insurance or seek legal advice with a view to litigation.  
I understand this claim has settled now and that Mr W had to liaise with the loss assessors 
himself. The agreement between Mrs B and Mr W and Easi-Drive doesnt specify that Easi-
Drive will deal with the claim for damage to the wall but its clear there was communication 
between them and the third-party insurer about this. I can see there have been delays but I 
cant say these are down to Easi-Drive as they have forwarded on Mrs B and Mr Ws quote 
for repairs but the claim itself was being considered by the third-party insurer and the loss 
assessor. The inspection and any settlement offers were outside of Easi-Drives control so I 
dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
Lack of communication and responses 
The key facts about this part of the complaint arent in dispute. Easi-Drive have admitted 
they got things wrong by not responding to Mrs B and Mr Ws phone calls and emails 
chasing updates and progress. The only issue I have to decide for this part of the complaint 
is whether the amount of compensation theyve offered is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Easi-Drive should compensate Mrs B and Mr W for the frustration and 
inconvenience caused by their poor service throughout their handling of the claim. Mr W has 
told us he has sent 84 emails and made around 35 calls as he wasnt kept updated. Ive 
seen evidence of his communication chasing Easi-Drive at regular intervals. An accident is a 
stressful event so Mrs B and Mr W will have been looking to Easi-Drive to help them through 
the process and to cause minimal impact to an already worrying situation. That hasnt 
happened here and its understandable Mrs B and Mr W were left frustrated and 
inconvenienced at having to constantly chase and not receive responses. Easi-Drive have 
apologised and offered to reimburse Mrs B and Mr Ws telephone bill of £54.12 and 
compensation of £350. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.    
My final decision
Easi-Drive Limited have already made an offer to reimburse Mrs B and Mr Ws phone bill of 
£54.12 and to pay £350 compensation. And I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Easi-Drive Limited should pay £54.12 and £350 compensation to   
Mrs B and Mr W, if they havent done so already.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman