DRN-2019689
The complaint
Mr S complains about an instalment loan that he took out with Gain Credit LLC, trading as 
Lending Stream, (LS). 
What happened
This complaint is about an instalment loan for £350 which LS provided to Mr S on 
8 February 2018. The loan was repayable by six monthly instalments with a highest 
instalment of £148.40. The loan was repaid on 28 June 2018.
Mr S said that the checks for the loan hadnt been done properly as at the time hed had two 
to three open defaulted accounts and a lot of payday loans with a lot of missed payments. 
He said that any lender would know from seeing his credit file that he couldnt afford to pay 
back the loan.
In its final response letter, LS said that it had asked Mr S for his monthly income and 
expenditure including his monthly expenses for his loans and credit agreements. It also 
checked this information with the credit reference agency. LS revised Mr Ss stated 
expenditure upwards where required. LS said that Mr S still had money available after it 
subtracted his expenses from his income. This was more than the amount needed to pay it 
back each month. So, it said that the loan was affordable. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and responded to say that he had several payday loans open and in arrears 
and he also had defaulted accounts. 
The adjudicator noted that Mr S was borrowing from numerous lenders and also had 
defaults and arrears. But he said that he felt that LSs checks were proportionate. 
As Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators view, this complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
When LS lent to Mr S the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The CONC
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
LS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LS should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that LS was required to establish whether 
Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties 
and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
LS did a number of checks before it lent to Mr S. It asked him for details of his monthly 
income and expenditure. Mr Ss declared income was £1,400 and he declared his 
expenditure to be £200. LS adjusted both Mr Ss income and expenses and said that his 
adjusted disposable income was £864.73. 
LS also checked Mr Ss credit file before agreeing to the loan. Ive seen brief results from 
LSs credit check and shall refer to these below.
Weve received extracts from Mr Ss credit report, and I shall refer to these below.
The brief credit check results that LS shared with us showed that Mr S had six active credit 
accounts, three defaulted accounts and three delinquent accounts. It had been one month 
since his most recent defaulted and delinquent accounts. I think these results should have 
caused concerns to the lender and led it to look to perform an independent assessment of 
Mr Ss finances. But, on balance, I dont think the results of the credit checks, in isolation, 
were a reason for LS to refuse to lend to Mr S.
I asked the adjudicator to ask Mr S for a full copy of his credit report and copies of his bank 
statements so we could see what better checks would have shown LS. He didnt provide these to us. So, Im not able to say that better checks would have shown LS that it shouldnt 
have given the loan to Mr S. 
Ive reviewed the extracts from Mr Ss credit report, but on balance, I cant safely say from 
what Ive seen on those extracts that LS shouldnt have provided the loan to Mr S. I 
appreciate that Mr Ss finances were likely under pressure at that time. But the true state of 
Mr S's finances wasn't something that he shared with LS when he asked for the loan. And I 
don't think it is something that LS should have discovered from proportionate checks.
So overall Im not persuaded that LS lent irresponsibly on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman