DRN-3358765
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how PLA Loss Adjusting Group Ltd (PLA) assisted him in respect of a 
claim he needed to make under his home insurance policy. And, he is unhappy with the fee 
PLA has invoiced him for, in relation to this assistance.
Mr A has been represented in this complaint by Mrs A. But, for ease of reference, Ill just 
refer to Mr A  but this will include the representations Mrs A provided. 
What happened
Mr A has explained that on 9 June 2019 there was a fire at his property. Because of the 
damage this caused, Mr A needed to make a claim under his home insurance policy. Mr A 
said that at the time he made the claim, he found the matter overwhelming. And so, when a 
representative from PLA visited his home, and noted that PLA could assist with the claim, he 
thought about this, later agreeing for it to handle the claim on his behalf.
Mr A has told this service that the reason he decided to appoint PLA was because the 
representative that visited him, said he would support Mr A with getting a cash settlement for 
his claim. In exchange for this support, Mr A says he was told he would owe PLA a fee equal 
to 10% of the cash settlement achieved. But, if no cash settlement was achieved, and the 
property was reinstated instead, he wouldnt owe PLA anything. As Mr A wanted a cash 
settlement, he said he signed up for PLA to assist and represent him with the claim. 
PLA has said something different. It has said that when it was first appointed to assist Mr A 
with the claim, Mr A hadnt decided whether he wanted a cash settlement, or reinstatement. 
PLA also said it assisted with the tender process for the work that needed completing, and 
the winner tender was submitted by a contractor, who Ill call P. The tender was for 
£60,122.71 plus VAT.
PLA said that Mr As insurer accepted this tender as reasonable on the whole  apart from 
some provisional sums it questioned. 
PLA noted that once the winning tender had been confirmed, it met with Mr A. And at that 
point, Mr A confirmed that he wanted a cash settlement. Which, at this point, was early in 
November 2019. PLA noted that at this point, it informed the insurer of Mr As request, asked 
Mr A for evidence to firm up the provisional sums on the tender, and for evidence from his 
mortgage provider that it was happy for Mr A to be provided with a cash settlement.
Mr A was unhappy with PLA asking for this confirmation from his mortgage provider. He 
didnt think it was reasonable for PLA to ask for this information. But he did ask his lender, 
and provided PLA with a letter from it, noting that it would like the insurers approved 
contractors to deal with the claim, as opposed to a cash settlement. 
Following this, Mr A agreed to appoint the contractor that won the tender process PLA 
conducted. However, around a month after this contractor started work, Mr A was unhappy 
with the work completed and told the contractor to stop work. At this point, Mr A also told 
PLA that it was cancelling his agreement with it. He no longer wanted PLA to assist him. He 
said this was because PLA had been deceitful  as he had found out that when PLA asked 
for information from Mr As mortgage provider, it hadnt been the insurer that had asked for 
this. And PLA had told him that it was the insurer requesting this information. 
As the contract was cancelled, PLA sent Mr A an invoice for its representation. The invoice 
was for £10,822.09. PLA said that the expected claim settlement would be £60,122.71. And 
it said its fee, including VAT, would be 15% of this  given the terms and the agreement Mr 
A signed up to. Mr A didnt agree. He was unhappy with what had happened in respect of 
the cash settlement issue, as well as with the contractors recommended by PLA to complete 
work at his property. And, Mr A said he had agreed to 10% of the claims settlement to be 
provided to PLA, not 15%. So, he raised a complaint with PLA.
PLA responded and said that it always did its best to get the type of settlement the customer 
requires, but it said it was aware of the potential ramifications for Mr A if a cash settlement 
was accepted, if it was against a lenders wishes. So, it said it was right to ask for the 
agreement of the lender for a cash settlement. And unfortunately, in this case, the lender did 
not agree to that, so it couldnt move forward with supporting a claims settlement via this 
method. 
PLA did however say that it felt there was a failure in communication, and that the loss 
assessor representing Mr A should have made him aware that the mortgage lenders 
preference could impact the ability to seek a cash settlement. It apologised for this.
Lastly, PLA understood that Mr A had cancelled his agreement with it. It said the fee owed to 
it, under the terms of Mr As contact was 15% of the claim settlement value  £10,822.09, 
and so Mr A would need to pay this.
Mr A was remained dissatisfied with PLAs position on the matter. And so, he referred his 
complaint to this service, for an independent review. 
I issued a provisional decision, detailing my thoughts on the complaint. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive asked for some further information to be sent in, from both parties. But neither have sent 
this to me. So, Ive proceeded based on the information I do have, and what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable based on that evidence. As above, unless any further evidence is 
provided to change my findings, my final decision is likely to be along the same as that 
detailed below. 
As detailed above, Ive considered all of the evidence from both parties when coming to my 
initial decision on this complaint. But, when detailing my initial decision, Ive only referred to 
the information I consider relevant to explain my reasoning in this case.
Mr As complaint is about the loss assessor he appointed. Its firstly important to highlight the 
role of a loss assessor in insurance claims  so as to consider whether it has acted fairly and 
reasonably, in line with that role, and the agreement Mr A signed up to.
A loss assessors role, in being appointed by a consumer, such as Mr A, is to handle, or 
assist with handling a claim, on behalf of that consumer. Ive seen a copy of the agreement 
Mr A signed, when appointed PLA. 
This agreement, signed by Mr A, confirms that PLA has the authority to act on Mr As behalf 
in ascertaining, negotiating and where possible, settling all matters in relation to the claim. Id expect a loss assessor to act fairly and reasonably when carrying out these things. So, Ive 
thought about whether PLA acted reasonably in this case.
Cash settlement 
Mr A did provide PLA authority to act on his behalf in respect of settling his claim, where 
possible. But, as above, Mr A feels PLA didnt act fairly in this. This is because Mr A has said 
he told PLA that he wanted a cash settlement for the claim. But he felt that PLA didnt 
support him in this. And Mr A has said PLA acted unreasonably by requesting that he 
provide evidence from his mortgage lender, to show it approved a cash settlement being 
provided.
Ive thought about this carefully. And having done so, I dont intend on upholding this 
element of the complaint. 
Mr A has said that PLA was told, from the beginning of the claim, that Mr A required a cash 
settlement. PLA has said it wasnt told this, until around November 2019. 
There arent any notes, or phone call recordings, from when Mr A and PLA first spoke. So, I 
dont know for certain what was discussed at the time. In situations such as this, I need to 
decide what I think is most likely in the circumstances. And, based on the information Ive 
seen, I dont think it was clear to PLA that Mr A only wanted a cash settlement, until around 
November 2019.
I say this because Ive seen emails sent at the time of the claim. And it is only following the 
tender process being completed and accepted, that any reference to Mr A wanting a cash 
settlement is noted. On 4 November 2019, PLA tells the insurers agents that;
Following a meeting with my clients on Friday they have now decided they wish to cash 
settle the buildings element of the claim. Therefore I have asked Mr A to obtain quotations 
from contractors for the provisional items that you have listed to firm up costs.
As this email is from the time the issue was ongoing, I think its persuasive evidence that it 
was at this point, that Mr A confirmed a cash settlement would be his preferred way forward.
Once Mr A had confirmed this, I would expect PLA to act promptly and fairly in liaising with 
Mr A and the insurer, looking to obtain a cash settlement. And I think PLA did do this.
I can see that shortly after the above email, PLA did ask Mr A to provide evidence around 
the costs for the provisional sums on the tender document. And, at the same point, it did tell 
Mr A, via email, that;
As is usual in these circumstances the Mortgage company, if the property is mortgaged, will 
need to be asked if they approve of a cash settlement. It is only where a property highly 
mortgaged or as we have had in a few instances in negative equity they will not approve and 
insist on reinstating.
I await.and confirmation from the mortgage company as insurers will very likely ask for.
Following this, I can see PLA communicating with the parties in respect of the provisional 
sums and chasing for matters to be moved forward. And, once the final invoices were 
submitted by Mr A towards the end of November 2019, PLA chased the insurer for a 
response in respect of a cash settlement offer. 
PLA received the cash settlement offer, of £52,500 on 11 December 2019, with the insurer 
noting this was after it has taken off a premium for cash settling the claim and amended some of the provisional sums. And PLA went back and disputed this premium being taken 
off. Given this, I do think PLA were assisting in Mr As attempts to gain a cash settlement. It 
was continuously moving the matter forward, as communication on the claim came in.
I can see PLA also chased Mr A for information from the mortgage company, via email, 
noting that it this information was important, and would delay the claim. It was around this 
time, although the date isnt clear, that Mr A provided PLA with the information from the 
mortgage provider. And confirmed that he would go with the contractors PLA had 
recommended in the tender process. 
Given the above actions PLA carried out, Im currently satisfied it did assist Mr A in seeking 
a cash settlement, as I wouldve expected it to, in a timely manner. And carried out Mr As 
wishes, in this regard. 
I appreciate Mr A feels PLA acted unfairly by asking Mr A to get information from his lender, 
to confirm it was agreeable to a cash settlement. But I do also think PLA acted fairly, and 
considered Mr As interests, when asking Mr A for this information. Whether Mr As insurer 
had asked for this evidence or not (PLA just says it is likely the insurer will ask), PLA 
recognised that Mr As mortgage provider had a financial interest in the property and its 
condition. And, that accepting a cash settlement, without the lenders input, may cause 
issues for Mr A in the future. So, it seems reasonable to me for it to ensure that in assisting 
with a cash settlement for Mr A, it was acting in Mr As best interests, and not undertaking 
any action that may be detrimental to Mr A in the future.  
I understand that the mortgage provider did not want a cash settlement provided to Mr A in 
this instance. Ive seen a copy of the letter Mr As lender sent to him. And it says its usual 
process is to ask for the insurers approved repairers to complete the work. And thats what it 
would like to happen in this case. I understand this response was distressing for Mr A. But I 
dont hold PLA responsible for the lenders decision here. Thats the lenders decision, and 
PLA has no influence over it. PLA has however acknowledged that it could have made Mr A 
aware that a cash settlement was guaranteed  and that the lender may not want this to 
happen. I agree. But PLA has apologised for this, and Im satisfied that was a fair thing to do. 
Mrs A, on behalf of Mr A has told this service that PLA was very assertive and convincing 
that he would help us with the claim and made my husband sign a contract with them after 
he mentioned that he wanted to fight for a cash settlement. And has suggested that the only 
reason Mr A appointed PLA was because it said it would obtain a cash settlement. But I 
havent seen any firm evidence to show that PLA said it would definitely secure a cash 
settlement for Mr A  rather it would assist with the claim. Which Im satisfied it did. So, I 
dont require PLA to do anything more in this respect. 
As I dont think PLA acted unfairly here, I dont think it needs to do anything more in this 
respect. 
Fee charged to Mr A 
Was Mr A told of the fee options?
Mr A has raised concerns about the fee that PLA has invoiced him for. He has explained that 
when he first spoke to PLA it noted that if Mr A received a cash settlement from his insurer, 
the fee for PLAs assistance would be 10% of the cash settlement figure. But, if Mr A used 
the contractors it recommended, then he wouldnt have to pay anything, as their fees would 
be gained from the contractor instead. However, Mr A has said that on cancelling his agreement with PLA he was instead sent an 
invoice for 15% of the expected claim amount. Mr A hasnt paid this  noting it was more 
than he agreed to. 
Ive considered Mr As recollections of when he first signed up with PLA, as well as PLAs 
reflections that it did tell Mr A of the 15% fee in the event that if Mr A chose reinstatement & 
subsequently change their mind, after the tender process, the fee increases to 15%.
The partys recollections of the matter differ. But Mr A did sign a contract with PLA  which 
details its terms and conditions, including its fee. As this is the basis of agreement between 
the parties, I place significant weight on this  when deciding whether Mr A was told of the 
different fees payable to PLA. 
This agreement defines what is meant by Fee. It says;
The Fee is the lower of 10% of the value PLA assess as a fair settlement figure, or the 
settlement negotiated with the insurer for the Claim, or each part(s) for which indemnity is 
given by the insurers for the Claim, plus VAT on that/those sums, together with 
disbursements made on the policyholders behalf not recoverable from the insurer.
In addition to this, under the section Policyholders Requirements three methods of paying 
PLA are detailed. 
The first being that if Mr A agreed to the appointment of the contractor to undertake the 
work, PLA would invoice the contractor for a management charge, rather than invoicing Mr A 
for its work. 
The second being that if a cash settlement is paid, Mr A would pay PLA 10% plus VAT, of 
the settlement money.
And the last being;
()
3 Save where a Cancellation Fee is payable, in the event I/we do not use the Contractor for 
the Works, or enter a contract with him, I/we agree to pay the Fee of 15%, plus VAT, of the 
value of the contract.
Given all of the above was noted in the agreement Mr A signed, I do think he was told about 
the various fee options, depending on what happened with the claim. 
Is the fee charged to Mr A fair?
Just because Mr A was told of the various fee options, it doesnt necessarily follow that the 
fee charged to him in this case is fair. Ive thought carefully about whether the fee PLA have 
invoiced Mr A for is reasonable, bearing in mind what Mr A signed up to. And I dont think it 
is.
PLA have invoiced Mr A for 15% (plus VAT) of £60,122.71. But Im not satisfied that 15% is 
the right percentage. Or that basing it on a figure of £60,122.71 is reasonable.
In terms of the 15% - the agreement Mr A signed only notes 15% being payable if Mr A 
didnt use or enter into a contract with the contractor. But Mr A did engage and use the 
contractor. At least initially. The term around the 15% charge doesnt note what happens if 
Mr A appoints the contractor, and then later takes them off the job, after it has carried out 
work. So, I dont think its fair and PLA to charge 15%.Mr A cancelled the agreement, after using the contractor for at least some of the work. And 
there is a cancellation term in the agreement, which says that;
If We/I cancel for any reason before completion of the Services, but after the cooling off 
period, Unless the Services have been substantially performed, we will pay as the 
Cancellation Fee 75% of the Fee plus VAT and disbursements without deduction or set off of 
any kind whatsoever.
Mr A did cancel after the cooling off period, and before completion of the work PLA was 
appointed to do. And so, Im satisfied this cancellation term applies. 
So, Mr A would owe 75% of the Fee. Unless it was shown that the Services had been 
substantially performed. But substantially performed isnt defined in the agreement Mr A 
signed. So, its not clear what this means. And given this lack of clarity, I think its reasonable 
to read this giving Mr A the benefit of the doubt. I say this because where there is ambiguity 
in the contract its fair to read this in favour of the party that didnt draft it. Mr As evidence 
suggests there was a lot of work left to do on the claim. And Im aware it still isnt settled. So, 
I dont think its reasonable to say the services were substantially performed.
As a result, I consider it would be reasonable for Mr A to invoiced for 75% of the Fee. The 
definition of Fee is explicitly detailed in the agreement Mr A signed. As above, it is either the 
lower of 10% of the value of what PLA considers a fair settlement figure, the settlement 
negotiated with the insurer, or indemnity given by the insurer. 
PLA, by invoicing Mr A has considered a fair settlement figure to be £60,122.71. And I can 
see this is because it was the price that came back from the winning tender. But the insurer 
didnt agree to this amount. It questioned a number of provisional figures and noted that it 
had taken off some money from the tender, as a premium. 
Instead, it offered £51,000 for the works, with a further £1,500 if Mr A was to manage the 
works himself. So, £52,500 in total. In terms of indemnity given by the insurer, it isnt clear 
what the final figure for this will end at  the claim hasnt been concluded yet. But I havent 
seen anything to suggest that settlement is under the £52,500 the insurer agreed. And so, as 
the settlement figure negotiated with the insurer is the lowest of the three  as per the terms 
 then the fee should be based on the £52,500.  
This means the fair and reasonable figure, both of the parties agreed to, is 75%, of 10% of 
£52,500, plus VAT. This being £6,300. 
Based on the above, my current outcome is for PLA to reduce its fee to £6,300.
Delays and Customer Service 
Mr A has said the quality of the work carried out by the contractor was poor. And this the 
reason why Mr A stopped them carrying out the work. He has also said this is part of the 
reason why he cancelled PLA too. Ive considered this point, and whether it effects the 
outcome of this case. And I dont think it does. I say this because I havent seen any firm 
evidence to suggest the work completed by the contractor was unsatisfactory. Its my 
understanding that the insurer settled these costs invoiced by the contractor. Which 
suggests to me it didnt feel the work was poor. 
In addition to this, Mr A has said that PLA delayed the progress of his claim. And that this 
meant the alternative accommodation and furniture hire that had been agreed with his 
insurer ran out before Mr A and his family could move home. It is important that a loss assessor assists in moving a claim forward promptly and fairly. This 
means that the loss assessor shouldnt cause any avoidable delays as the claim progresses. 
With this in mind, Ive reviewed the history of this claim, and PLAs involvement with it. And 
on doing so, I cant see any periods where PLA could have moved the matter forward more 
quickly. I can see that it completed the tender process, and then sent this over to the insurer 
to consider. Im aware it chased this response. And, once it received a response from the 
insurer, it sought to gain further information from the insurer and from Mr A on the 
provisional items on the schedule of works, and the ultimate value of the work needed at the 
house. Im also satisfied that where other issues arose, such as queries over the mortgage 
lenders agreement for a cash settlement, and queries over alternative accommodation and 
furniture hire, it dealt with these.
I understand that Mr As insurer said that it wouldnt pay for alternative accommodation and 
furniture hire after February 2020. But to help it could off-set these costs from Mr As 
contents claim. It isnt for me to comment on whether the insurer acted reasonably or not 
here  this complaint isnt about the insurer. But in relation to PLA, I dont think it caused 
delays. And so, I dont hold it responsible for additional alternative accommodation and 
furniture hire payments.
Both parties responded to my provisional decisions and disagreed with it. 
Mr A said:
From the very first interactions with PLA he told it he wanted a cash settlement and it 
was agreed this would be the avenue PLA would pursue. And as PLA didnt secure 
this cash settlement for him, a fee wasnt due to it.
He signed the contract with PLA on the same day PLA visited his property, without 
reading the contract or understanding any of the legal terms and jargon within it  
with English not being his first language. But his understanding was that PLA were 
there to help with a cash settlement
PLA should never have asked for information from his mortgage provider. His insurer 
had never required this, and it seems that PLA never pursued a cash settlement on 
his behalf
He wasnt aware he had the right to choose his own contractors 
He decided to terminate the work with the contractors as he wasnt happy with it and 
hadnt been from the start, and when terminating the contract with PLA, also wanted 
to terminate it at the same time with them.
In relation to the fee reduction I noted in my provisional decision PLA said:
The calculation Id provided for the fee reduction should mean its fee being reduced 
to £4,725, rather than the £6,300 Id quoted  based on the methodology used in the 
provisional decision, although it didnt agree with the methodology within the 
provisional decision.
It has substantially performed its role in the contract, and therefore the fee it was 
entitled to charge should be based on the full tender sum of £62,000. It said this was 
according to the Chartered Institute of Loss Adjusters (CILA) description of the loss 
adjuster role  which says a loss adjusters role is to verify whether the policy covers 
the damage, and verify the settlement amount for the claim, if any is due. It said CILA 
made no mention of appointing and supervising contractors.
It was unaware of any changes to the offer made for the claim, and it didnt feel it was 
fair for its fee to be reduced on that basis. It asked for me to explain how I came to the sum quoted in my provisional decision, re offer on the claim.
Other points it made included: 
The contractor completing the work at Mr As property (before cancellation) were not 
appointed by it, or as a result of the tender process, but because Mr A was having 
difficulty in finding his own contractor, coupled with the tender contractors declining to 
undertake the work for Mr A. 
Had Mr A hadnt terminated the contract it would have pursued the maximum 
settlement for Mr A.
It hadnt been informed the mortgage lender was now happy for a cash settlement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure both parties that this includes the further submissions theyve provided to 
me, following my provisional decision on the complaint. 
I havent responded to every additional point made. And I wont reiterate my provisional 
decision either because its contained above. Instead, Ive responded to further comments 
made when I consider it necessary to explain my decision. 
Cash settlement
Mr A has reiterated that he made it clear from the start that he wanted a cash settlement for 
his claim, and he said that PLA confirmed it obtain this for him. Ive already responded to this 
in my provisional decision. I cant be sure what was said during those first days between 
Mr A and PLA. But the evidence provided to me suggests the request for a cash settlement 
was made clear in November 2019, and not before. And at that point, Im satisfied that PLA 
moved forward to look at a cash settlement, including telling the insurer this is what Mr A 
wanted.
However, its important to note that whether Mr A said he wanted a cash settlement at the 
beginning of the claim, or in November 2019, it doesnt make a difference to the outcome of 
this complaint. Prior to 2019 I can see that PLA were looking to move the claim forward by 
establishing the costs associated with the claim. So, it was pursuing the matter as it needed 
to, at that stage, to establish the value of the loss.
And, Mr A had signed a contract which explained that the fee charged to Mr A would be 
dependent on the different settlement methods that could carried out. Mr A has said he didnt 
read or understand the contract with PLA. 
But Mr A did sign this, appointing PLA based on the terms in the contract. And those terms 
werent solely about gaining a cash settlement. If Mr A didnt understand what he was 
signing, I would expect him to raise this with PLA before signing it. 
Mr A is concerned that PLA asked for evidence from his mortgage provider, about whether it 
would be happy for Mr A to accept a cash settlement or not. Mr A has he didnt want to 
provide this, and his insurer didnt ask for it.
 
As detailed in my provisional decision, Ive seen the email correspondence between PLA 
and Mr A about the information from the mortgage provider. And Im satisfied that PLA does 
not give the impression its asking for this because the insurer wants it. PLA said it was likely the insurer will ask in future. So, it was pre-empting something that may come. And, Im 
satisfied PLA was acting in Mr As best interests in asking for this information, to make sure 
that nothing happened that his mortgage provider could later raise concerns about, and 
cause a problem to Mr A. 
So, my final decision remains the same in relation to these points.
Fee charged to Mr A
Mr A has reiterated that he doesnt feel any fee is due to PLA, because it didnt secure a 
cash settlement for him. But I dont agree. Im satisfied its fair to PLA to charge a fee  Mr A 
appointed PLA, and it did do work on his behalf.
Based on everything Ive seen from the parties my decision remains that its fair for PLAs 
fee to be reduced in this instance. 
This is based on the same methodology as in my provisional decision. However, PLA was 
correct in noting the outcome of my methodology results in the fee PLA is charging being 
reduced to £4,725, rather than £6,300. So, my decision is that the fee should be reduced to 
£4,725, which is inclusive of VAT.
Why is this the fair fee?
As discussed in my provisional decision, I think the term around the cancellation fee is 
ambiguous. Its says the cancellation fee is 75% of the Fee (fee being defined)  unless the 
services are substantially performed. It doesnt explain what the fee is if the services have 
been substantially performed. So, its not clear what Mr A would be charged if he cancelled, 
whilst the work has been substantially performed. 
And there is no definition of the term to set out for the parties how to decide whether the 
matter has been substantially performed or not. PLA has said the Chartered Institute of Loss 
Adjusters (CILA) details a loss adjusters role, and it has completed the work based on 
these details. This evidencing that it did substantially perform its role. But the agreement 
Mr A signed up to doesnt explain this  so I dont think its fair to assume thats what Mr A 
understood when signing up to PLAs services. I consider that the meaning term is one that 
is open to interpretation  meaning that the parties to the contract could have different 
understandings of it. And in this case Mr A doesnt think PLA performed its role as it should 
have, whilst PLA does. 
If a contract is unclear, then I consider it reasonable to read this in favour of the consumer. 
So, giving the consumer the benefit of doubt as to the meaning of the term. As there is 
nothing within the contract to confirm in Mr As case that it has been substantially performed, 
I think its reasonable to say that it hasnt been. And so, the cancellation fee, of 75% of the 
Fee should apply.
The Fee is something that is defined by the policy. It being the lower of 10% of:
The value PLA shall assess as a fair settlement figure; or
The settlement figure negotiated with the insurer for the claim; or
Each of such parts for which an indemnity is given by insurers, plus VAT together 
with any disbursements made on the policyholders behalf
The lower of the above is the second bullet point  the figure negotiated with the insurer for 
the claim, based on the information Ive seen. This being the £52,500 the insurers offered for the works. PLA have asked if the insurer has changed their offer and mentioned whether 
Mr A has paid the contractors for all of the work. 
And Mr A has said that the settlement figure was lower  at £22,885.69. But Mr A is referring 
to the settlement figure he paid for the building works here  not the claim, which involved 
more than the reinstatement works. As above, £52,500 was the figure negotiated with the 
insurer for the claim at that stage.
I havent seen anything to show that there were further negotiations between the insurer and 
PLA that led to a higher (or lower) negotiated settlement before the point of cancellation. The 
insurer emailed PLA offering £52,500 for the work and noting a disagreement with some 
provisional sums. Mr A provided further information on those sums  but no conclusion was 
reached whilst PLA were representing Mr A, as far as I can see. Even if higher figures were 
provided as indemnity by the insurers, this doesnt change the outcome of this complaint  
because the above terms highlight the fee is the lower of the three bullet points above. And 
the lower is the amount PLA negotiated with the insurer.
Whether Mr A has paid the contractors for all the work isnt for this service to consider  
thats between Mr A and those contractors. My concern is whether the fee PLA is charging is 
fair. And, Im satisfied it would be fair, in line with the contract Mr A agreed to, to pay the 
cancellation fee  which is 10% of 75% of the £52,500 settlement figure negotiated with the 
insured. As PLA has said  this comes to £4,725 inclusive for VAT. And so thats what I 
require PLA to reduce its fee to. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and require PLA Loss 
Adjusting Group Ltd to Reduce its fee to £4,725 inclusive of VAT. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman