DRN-3262618
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt grant him a coronavirus payment 
deferral on his mortgage.
What happened
Mr O has a mortgage with Barclays. He says his income was affected by the coronavirus 
pandemic and he began to find it difficult to pay his mortgage.
Mr O says that he was aware that the government had told mortgage lenders to give 
payment holidays to borrowers. He says he thought it would happen automatically.
In fact, thats not the case. Borrowers have to apply to their lender for a payment holiday  
properly called a payment deferral.
Mr O says he assumed he would be given an automatic deferral when he didnt make a 
payment. But instead his mortgage went into arrears.
Barclays sent Mr O a text message telling him he was in arrears and asking him to call. Mr O 
rang Barclays as soon as he received the text, in early December.
Mr O spoke to an agent, who took him through security. Mr O passed security using his 
address, date of birth, and a security password and a code texted to his mobile phone. 
Mr O told the agent that he wanted a payment deferral  he had gone into arrears because 
he had assumed he would be given one automatically. Now he knew that was not the case, 
he was ringing to apply.
The agent told Mr O he needed to speak to another department. He said he would pass Mr 
Os call through and explain what he and Mr O had discussed and that Mr O had passed 
security.
But the agent didnt do that. He just put Mr O through to another agent, without explaining 
why.
This meant that as far as the second agent was concerned, Mr Os call was a fresh call from 
outside Barclays. The second agent said that he couldnt discuss Mr Os situation until Mr O 
passed security  for which he would need Mr Os account number.
Mr O explained that he wasnt at home, that he was calling in response to the arrears text, 
and that he had already passed security with another adviser who hadnt needed his account 
number.
The second agent explained that he didnt have access to the same systems, and the only 
way he could take Mr O through security was with his account number  which Mr O didnt 
have to hand.
The call therefore ended. Mr O wasnt able to ask for a payment deferral because he 
couldnt pass security with the second agent.
The second agent gave Mr O a number to call back on once he had access to his account 
number. But instead Mr O contacted us to complain that Barclays hadnt helped him on that 
call.
One of our investigators arranged for Barclays to call Mr O to discuss a payment deferral 
with him. But because two more months had passed by the time of this call, Mr O was now 
three months in arrears.
Barclays told Mr O that because he was in arrears it couldnt just give him a payment 
deferral. It would need to go through his income and expenditure and consider whether there 
were other, more appropriate options.
Mr O wasnt willing to go through his income and expenditure. He explained his 
vulnerabilities and said that he had done that with a charity that was supporting him and 
could Barclays just contact the charity. Barclays explained it couldnt do that and it would 
need Mr O to go through his income and expenditure himself. Unfortunately Mr O became 
angry and frustrated and the call did not end well.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision setting out my view of the complaint. I said: 
When the covid-19 pandemic hit, the government and the regulator said that lenders 
should offer mortgage borrowers payment deferrals if their income had been affected 
by the pandemic.
This means that they dont have to make monthly payments, but are still charged 
interest. 
The maximum deferral is six months and the missed payments have to be made up 
afterwards.
Payment deferrals werent applied automatically, because not everyone needed one. 
It was up to borrowers to ask.
The regulators guidance said that borrowers in arrears were also eligible for a 
payment deferral.
The guidance says that a lender should give a payment deferral to a borrower who 
asks and is eligible  unless the borrower and the lender agree that something else 
would be in the borrowers best interests.
And the guidance says that where the lender and borrower dont agree, the lender 
should offer the payment deferral the borrower has asked for.
In this case, when he first asked in December, Mr O spoke to an agent who was 
helpful and took him through security. The agent said Mr O would need to speak to 
another department. He said he would put Mr O through and explain the situation.
But he didnt do that. He just put Mr O through. This meant Mr O had to start again 
from the beginning. And he couldnt pass security with the second agent because the second agent would only accept Mr Os account number, which he didnt have to 
hand. This meant Mr O couldnt apply for a payment holiday.
Mr O had successfully passed security with the first agent. I think its likely that if the 
first agent had done what he said he would and explained things to the second agent 
before passing Mr O over, the second agent would not have needed to go through 
security again. And that would have meant Mr O would have been able to apply for a 
payment deferral in December 2020.
Ive set out what the guidance said at that time above. It said that a borrower in 
arrears was still eligible for a payment deferral. And it said that if the lender and the 
borrower disagreed, the lender should give the deferral requested by the borrower.
Had Mr O been able to apply in December, Barclays might well have wanted to 
discuss his income and expenditure, just as it did in February. And that would have 
been a reasonable thing to ask for, to see whether there were any other options that 
might help Mr O more than a payment deferral.
But Mr O was clear he wanted a deferral. He says that at that time he wasnt earning 
and only receiving universal credit. So its difficult to see what would have been more 
helpful to him at that time than a payment deferral.
I think that if the process had been followed properly in December 2020, its likely 
that at the end of it Mr O would have been given a payment deferral. And while Mr O 
could have called back with his account number at a later date, he complained to us 
instead. From what I know  and Barclays knows  of Mr Os history thats not 
surprising. And it wouldnt have been necessary had things happened properly in the 
first place.
So I think Barclays should put Mr O back in the position he would have been in had it 
given him a payment deferral in December 2020. This will include making changes to 
his account and his credit file.
The maximum payment deferral that is granted when someone first applies is three 
months. That would have taken Mr O to February 2021.
In February 2021, he completed an income and expenditure with the charity. This 
showed that he was earning again, and that including the mortgage in his 
expenditure was affordable.
So I think its likely that Mr O wouldnt have needed a further three months from 
March 2021 onwards. And in any case payment deferrals could not continue beyond 
July 2021.
To put things right, I think Barclays should re-work Mr Os mortgage account and 
credit file so that it is as if he had been given a three-month payment deferral from 
December 2020. To be clear, this does not mean that Mr O will not have to make 
those payments. They have been deferred, not written off. They will still need to be 
made up. As will the arrears from the payments missed before December.
I dont think the payment deferral should be backdated before December. I 
appreciate Mr O didnt think he needed to apply for one. But he did. And nothing Ive 
seen in what the government or regulator, or lenders, said suggested that deferrals 
would happen automatically. So Mr O would only ever have got a deferral from when 
he asked for one  which was in December.When it comes to his credit file, therefore, the arrears from before December will still 
show as arrears. But Barclays should not show the credit file as worsening for the 
three months of the deferral.
Finally, I think the failure to allow Mr O to make the deferral application in December 
caused him trouble and upset, and I think £150 is fair compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Barclays accepted my provisional decision. Mr O said that at the end of the deferral period 
he would have asked for a further deferral. He sent us a copy of his income and expenditure 
information from that time. He said Barclays should have given him a payment deferral for 
the whole of the lockdown periods.
My second provisional decision
I was persuaded by what Mr O had said. I thought it was likely that if the first deferral had 
been granted Mr O would have asked for a second one when it ended. 
However, I didnt think it would be fair to give him a payment deferral for the whole pandemic 
period.
As I explained in my first provisional decision, Barclays could only put one in place once he 
asked for it, in December 2020. And the regulator has said that the maximum deferral is six 
months, and deferrals must end by July 2021. So I didnt think I could fairly require Barclays 
to do more than six months. That means Mr Os payment deferral would have ended by July 
2021. 
Neither party had anything further to say following my second provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that giving Mr O a backdated payment deferral of six months is 
a fair resolution to this complaint. That means the deferral ends in July 2021. 
If he is still having difficulties paying his mortgage now he will need to discuss that with 
Barclays. And he will also need to discuss what to do about any payments missed since July 
2021, as well as the payments missed before December 2020. Barclays will need to treat 
him fairly, and see what other alternative ways of helping may be appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Re-work Mr Os mortgage account and credit file so that it is as if he had been given 
a six month payment deferral from December 2020;
Pay Mr O £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman