DRN-3763545
The complaint
Mr A complains Think Money Limited unfairly stopped him accessing the funds in his
account. He wants compensation for the distress and loss he says this caused him.
What happened
Mr A held an account with Think Money. Think Money placed a block on the account while it
conducted a review. After completing the review, it released the funds to Mr A. Think Money
said it could have completed its review sooner and apologised to Mr A.
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint. They said Think Money was entitled to block the
account to conduct a review and it didnt need to forewarn him or tell him why.
But there was a delay in Think Money completing its review, so it should compensate Mr A
for how this impacted him. They recommended Think Money pay £100 for distress and
inconvenience and 8% simple interest per annum on the balance they held between 19 July
2021 and 11 August 2021.
Think Money disagreed with our investigators recommendation and said awarding
compensation would not be appropriate given the individual circumstances of this complaint.
As no resolution could be reached, Mr As complaint was given to me to make a final
decision in my capacity as an ombudsman.
I provisionally decided not to award Mr A compensation. My findings were:
Think Money has important legal and regulatory obligations to meet when providing
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account
is opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know its customer and
verify their sources of income, as well as detect and prevent other harm.
Think Money will review accounts to comply with its responsibilities. And, its common
industry practice for firms to restrict access to accounts to conduct a review - doing so helps
prevent potential financial loss or other harm that could otherwise result. I find Think Money
acted fairly by blocking Mr As account and it didnt need to tell him the reasons behind its
decision or forewarn him of its intentions. Im satisfied its actions werent illegal.
Think Money said it could have completed its review earlier than it did. But it doesnt always
follow that I should award compensation just because a complainant might have
experienced loss due to a delay. Instead, I must consider all the circumstances of an
individual complaint to reach an outcome Im satisfied is fair and reasonable.
I have considered very carefully why Think Money believes it shouldnt award Mr A
compensation, including the basis and content of its account review. I understand Mr A may
want to know the detail of Think Moneys review, but it does not need to reveal this
information and I wont be revealing it by virtue of him bringing this complaint.
I have also considered that the activity on Mr As account was minimal prior to April 2021
and there wasnt a great deal of everyday spend. I was sorry to hear what Mr A said about
his health, but Im not persuaded this was his main account or that not having access to the
funds several weeks earlier caused him the loss he says it did.
On balance, Im satisfied Think Moneys apology is sufficient. And, based on all the
information Ive seen, I dont find awarding him compensation would be a reasonable
outcome.
Think Money responded to my provisional decision and accepted my findings. Mr A 
responded and said Think Money acted illegally, he contacted them a lot of times to try to 
resolve this matter, and if he had committed a crime he should have been handed over to a 
court of law.
Based on both parties responses I now have enough information to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to award Mr A compensation. Nothing Mr A said in response to my 
provisional findings has led me to reach a different outcome to the one I reached in my 
provisional decision. My provisional findings are copied above, and they now form my 
findings for this final decision.
I understand Mr A is disappointed with my final decision. But I do not find Think Money acted 
illegally or that it needed to tell him why they blocked his account. Neither do I find it would 
be reasonable to award Mr A compensation based on the reasons Think Money has 
provided, including the content of its review  which again it does not have to reveal to him.
My final decision
I have decided not to direct Think Money Limited to pay Mr A compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman