DRN-4049085
The complaint
The complaint in this case relates to the customer service received by Mr L from Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) who are the administrators of Mr Ls group personal pension 
schemes. Mr L has stated queries were not responded to in a timely manner with there being 
extended wait times when trying to contact Aviva over the phone. 
What happened
Both parties in this case are fully aware of the issues which have led to the current complaint 
and neither party disagreed with the chain of events as laid out by our investigator, as such I 
have only included a brief summary of what occurred below.
The issues that resulted in this current complaint commenced in September 2022 when 
Aviva sent Mr L documentation regarding his new Stakeholder Group Personal Pension 
Plan.
The issues that Mr L raised following this can be broken down into four key service areas.
Telephone calls not being answered in a timely manner
Mr L has noted that in trying to gain policy information from Aviva, amend personal 
information including his email address, and query the process for changing investment 
funds, calls to Aviva were not answered in a timely manner with extended wait times being 
suffered.
Issues around changing his details notably his registered email address
Mr L has two pension policies held with Aviva. 
Aviva have more than one online portal which can be used to view such policies with the 
relevant portal being selected by the sponsoring employer when the policies are set up. 
Mr Ls two policies are set up on two different online portals, one on MyAviva and one on 
MyWorkplace. This was confirmed to Mr L in October 2022 although Mr L remained unhappy 
that both policies could not be viewed in the same place. 
Additionally, Mr L has two email addresses and had difficulty in amending which one was 
used. This issue stemmed from one email address being used as a home address and one 
being used for sending documentation. After several requests a system change was made 
which resolved the issue. Once this system change was enacted, a password reset was 
needed to complete the process.
Not being able to access fund switch information and instructions online
In November 2022 Mr L requested information from Aviva on how to amend his investment 
preferences for his pension. Aviva replied to this the same day and provided a fund switch 
form which could be used to make any amendments required. On 2 December 2022 Mr L 
requested a fund switch which was completed on 6 December 2022.
Aviva response times in relation to queries made
There were several points of contact of the months following your new pension commencing 
in September 2022. On some occasions replies to Mr Ls queries were not made within 
reasonable timeframes.
Examples of this include a general policy information request made on 4 October 2022 
which was not acknowledged until 18 October 2022 and when a request for an update from 
Aviva was made on 7 November 2022 this was not responded to until 23 November 2022.
Following the Mr Ls initial complaint in October 2022, Aviva updated Mr L in November 2022 
stating that their investigation had not yet been completed. As such Mr L was told he could 
refer his complaint to this service. 
Mr L referred his complaint to us however Aviva completed their investigation before our 
investigator could issue any findings. In January 2023 Aviva accepted they had not provided 
a satisfactory level of service and offered £100 to cover the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Aviva apologised for the levels of service provided and noted that not all staff had the ability 
to speak to customers over the phone. Additionally, Aviva explained that following the war in 
Ukraine and the cost-of-living crisis call volumes had increased.
Following this, in February 2023 Aviva offered Mr L a further £100 as the online access 
issues had not been remedied as they had promised. Mr L did not accept Avivas total offer 
of £200 and requested we continue with an investigation.
Our investigator looked into things and detailed the issues Mr L had faced in each of the four 
areas above. The investigator concluded that the service received by Mr L was indeed below 
the levels which could reasonably be expected. However, given Aviva had already accepted 
this, and made an offer of £200 by way of compensation, our investigator did not believe any 
further action was required.
Regarding the fund switch issues, our investigator noted that whilst there had been delays in 
the provision of some information about this, the actual fund switch requested by Mr L was 
actioned in a timely manner and as such no further action was needed.
Aviva accepted the investigators findings however Mr L did not. He stated that Aviva had 
provided poor service over a number of years, had not improved their customer service 
levels, and believed an increased offer of £500 was required in order to settle the complaint.
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case Aviva have accepted that their service did not meet the required standards and 
as such I do not need to consider this again here. My decision can focus solely on whether 
their offer of compensation is appropriate given the service issues faced by Mr L. 
Additionally, neither party has disagreed with the chain of events as laid out by our 
investigator, which I have summarised above. As such I have not repeated that information 
here and have focussed this decision on whether the redress offered by Aviva is reasonable.Within his communication with this service Mr L has stated that he has suffered with years 
of poor service from Aviva and that considering this, he does not consider their offer 
sufficient. 
I would however like to be clear that this decision relates only to the issues detailed above 
and Avivas response to them. Previous issues that Mr L may or may not have faced cannot 
factor into my decision, my sole concern is whether the total offer of £200 from Aviva is 
reasonable given the events outlined above.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal complaints resolution service and is not 
the financial services sector regulator. Any redress recommendations or instructions given 
by this service are not designed to in any way punish a business for their actions with the 
sole goal to remedy the effects of any error a business may make.
Each case I consider is consider is unique and is assessed on its own individual merits. 
Whilst a business may make similar mistakes that impact numerous customers, the effects 
of such a mistake on each customer will be different based on their own individual 
circumstances at that time.
Whilst this is the case, this service also seeks to provide consistent outcomes for both 
businesses and their consumers. 
Specifically with regard to the issues faced by Mr L in accessing information on his 
underlying investments and how to change them, I agree with the outcome reached by our 
investigator. When asked to make changes to Mr Ls investments Aviva acted in a timely 
manner. As such, I do not believe any actual financial loss was incurred by Mr L because of 
Avivas poor service.
In cases such as this where there is no actual financial loss, with the issue at hand relating 
solely to the level of compensation offered to cover a consumers distress and 
inconvenience, we do provide some generic guidance on our website. Our investigator has 
already provided this to Mr L however I have included it again here for reference - 
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience.
Overall, when considering the issues faced by Mr L  detailed above  I have reached the 
same conclusion as our investigator, in that the offer made by Aviva is reasonable.
I have considered carefully Mr Ls stance that his issues with Aviva are longstanding, that he 
does not believe their service levels have improved over time, and as such he believes an 
offer of £500 is more appropriate. However as detailed by our investigator, and as covered 
above, this decision can only focus on the current complaint points and not historic issues. 
Similarly, it is not my role to make an award intended to punish a business. 
As such, whilst I am upholding this complaint, I consider the compensation already offered 
by Aviva to be fair.
Putting things right
If it has not already done so Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should make the £200 
payment to Mr L. If payment has already been made, then no further action is required.
My final decision
As per the rationale detailed above, I am upholding this complaint but consider the offer already made by Aviva to be fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman