DRN-2294873
The complaint
Mr S complains TSB Bank Plc unfairly blocked and later closed several accounts without
telling him why. He asks for the accounts to be reinstated and compensation for the distress
and inconvenience he has been caused.
What happened
I have issued a separate final decision regarding the joint account Mr S held with his
wife. Much of what follows repeats the same facts relayed in that decision, but its important
those facts are repeated here for the purposes of this decision.
Mr S held several accounts with TSB. He also held a joint account with his spouse. While the
background facts are very much the same regarding the freezing and closure of all the
accounts, this decision only pertains to Mr S accounts. The reason for this is only Mr S can
accept or reject a final decision from an ombudsman about his accounts.
TSB decided to block access to Mr S accounts in late 2019. He engaged a professional
representative to act on his behalf who contacted TSB. The representative asked TSB why
the accounts were frozen, relayed concerns that direct debits might not be paid, and said
Mr S and his family were struggling financially without access to the funds.
TSB replied and said the reason for Mr S not being able to access the accounts was
because of a processing delay. It unblocked the accounts after approximately two weeks
and gave him two months notice that the accounts would close.
The representative contacted TSB again. In summary, they said:
The accounts should not be closed, and TSB should reconsider its position
If not, TSB should provide its reasons for closing the accounts and afford more time 
before they closed
Mr S had operated the accounts correctly and appropriately over several years
The National Crime Agency had made no application to the court regarding the funds 
held in the accounts
TSB responded and said it was closing the accounts in line with its terms and conditions,
and those terms did not require it to give its reasons.
Unhappy with TSBs response, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. An investigator
decided not to uphold the complaint about the joint account. They found:
TSB was acting in line with its legal and regulatory responsibilities by reviewing the 
account. Although Mr S experienced some difficulties by not having access to the 
account, TSB could block the account, and its actions were in line with the accounts 
terms and conditions.
TSB had the discretion to end its relationship with Mr S, and it was under no 
obligation to tell him why. But after checking TSBs reasons, the decision to close the 
account was legitimate and not without reason.
Mr S disagreed with the outcome and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the
complaint was passed to me to decide. His representative requested an oral hearing which I
rejected, but I afforded Mr S further time to provide any more information and evidence he
wanted to submit. No further response was received from him or his representative.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2021. I decided not to uphold Mr S complaint, 
but I provided further reasoning beyond what the investigator found. My findings were:
TSB has important legal and regulatory obligations which sometimes override its 
general duty to obey its customers mandate. To meet its responsibilities, it may 
decide to review customer accounts. So, while I understand Mr S considers himself a 
customer of good standing, TSB could still review his accounts without notice.
Mr S understandably wants to know why the review took place. But I dont find TSB 
had to disclose its reason(s) to him. I have, however, considered its reason(s) and
Im satisfied they were legitimate. I also find its decision to stop him accessing the
accounts during the review was proportionate.
I find TSB shouldnt have said Mr S couldnt access his account because of a
processing delay. This wasnt correct and could have misled Mr S. But I dont find
this ultimately led to a loss for which Mr S should be compensated.
TSB should carry out a review without causing unnecessary delay, especially as 
customers risk experiencing greater difficulties the longer their access is denied. But 
after reviewing TSBs actions, Im satisfied it acted as it should have, and it unfroze 
the accounts at the right time. So, I am not holding TSB liable for any distress or 
difficulty Mr S and his family experienced as a result of not having access to the 
accounts.
TSB has the discretion to terminate its relationship with a customer. This is an 
important part of the commercial freedom banks have when deciding who to provide 
services to, which includes the freedom to discontinue a relationship. Decisions to 
close accounts are often commercially sensitive, and it is common for banks not to 
disclose the reasons behind them. So, I dont find TSBs actions unusual in this 
regard or out of place in the retail banking industry.
Clearly, TSB ought not to terminate relationships for unlawful reasons; for instance,
by closing an account because a customer holds a protected characteristic. And TSB
ought to have a reason, which it did. But I disagree it needed to disclose its reason(s)
to Mr S.
I have considered TSBs contract in full. There is no express term which says TSB
dont have to provide a reason for closing an account. But Im not persuaded that in
its absence, there is an implied term that TSB needed to give a reason or that theterms should be interpreted to include such a term under the contra proferentem rule.
Mr S legal counsel pointed to the table in TSBs terms and conditions applicable to
closing accounts. One column is titled how can it [the account] be closed and
another is titled do we need to tell you in advance. They say the first column cannot
only relate to a duty to tell a customer about the closure of an account because the
matter of TSB giving notice is addressed by the second column. Instead, the first
column should be interpreted in Mr S favour to also include a basic duty to provide
reasons.
But looking at the table Im not satisfied by the above argument. To my mind the
table simply sets out that TSB could decide how best to communicate the closure of
an account to a customer when one of the specified reasons applied, and that it
didnt need to give notice. It then sets out that if any other reason applied, TSB had to 
communicate the closure in writing and give two months notice. But I find neither
circumstance required TSB to reveal its reason(s) to its customer.
I agree that elsewhere in the contract TSB says it may not disclose its reasons when
it decides to block an account or a payment. But I dont think this means TSB were
bound to disclose its reasons for closing an account because the account closure
terms didnt say something similar. Deciding to restrict an account or disobey a
customers mandate is a substantially different circumstance to choosing to close an
account.
Mr S representative says TSBs decision to close the account risks locking them out
of the UK banking system. But the accounts Mr S held werent basic accounts, so I
know of no legal or regulatory basis that required TSB to keep them open. TSB is not
obliged to not close accounts because other banks might close other accounts he
holds. I also find two months notice was enough time for Mr S to make other
arrangements.
Reference has been made to the duty to treat customers fairly under principle six of 
the Banking Code of Business Sourcebook (BCOBS). I think Mr S counsel may 
instead have meant to refer to the Principles for Business (PRIN 2.1), which form part 
of the High Level Standards in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. Principle 
six of PRIN 2.1 states:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
I dont find TSB treated Mr S unfairly by closing their account. I have carefully
considered its reason(s) and Im satisfied it was legitimate and not unlawful or
irrational. And, I dont find TSBs discretion to decide who it wants as a customer
should be inhibited simply because Mr S wanted to remain as a customer. Neither do
I find the fact the NCA communicated it hadnt made an application to the court was
reason for TSB not to close the account.
I find that TSB not extending the notice period before Mr S accounts closed was fair. 
I say this because TSB was entitled to close the accounts. And, I dont think Mr S 
right to complaint about TSBs decision and bring it to our service is enough of a 
reason to disapply the terms of the contract. Clearly that would undermine the 
efficacy and purpose behind the account closure terms.
Mr S representative says they should see the information TSB provided to our 
service which reveals TSBs reason(s) for the closure of the accounts. This would 
enable them to provide their perspective on the reason(s) for me to consider. But our service has the power to receive information in confidence under DISP 3.5.9 (2) and 
DISP 3.5.10 and this is what I have done.
My description of the information TSB provided is that it is evidence to show the
basis for TSBs decision. And I am satisfied the evidence shows TSB had a
legitimate basis to close the accounts. I find it appropriate to treat that evidence in
confidence because of its nature. Indeed, I would find it inappropriate to reveal TSBs
reasons by virtue of Mr S bringing his complaint to our service. To reveal those
reasons would circumvent the effect of TSBs decision, a decision which I have found 
was legitimate.
TSB responded to my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Mr S did not 
respond and the deadline for him to respond has passed. As a result, I have proceeded to 
make a final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr S complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision. Those findings are copied above and form my findings for this decision. But in 
summary I find:
TSB could stop Mr S accessing his accounts in line with its legal and regulatory 
responsibilities, and it carried outs its review without undue delay. TSB did not have 
to reveal its reasons for reviewing the account.
TSB had the discretion to close Mr S accounts. Again, it did not need to reveal why it 
wanted to close the accounts to Mr S. Neither do I find TSBs account terms and 
conditions imposed a basic duty on it to reveal its reasons to Mr S. I have considered 
its reasons and found them to be legitimate and not irrational or unlawful.
I dont find Mr S was treated unfairly in view of TSBs decision to close his accounts. I 
find TSB acted legitimately and within the discretion it has to choose not to want him 
as a customer.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr S complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman