DRN-2141993
The complaint
Ms R complains about the interest charged on her mortgage with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc. 
She says it should have offered her a new rate so that she wouldnt have had to pay the 
standard variable rate (SVR).
What happened
Ms R has an interest only mortgage with BoI, which was originally taken out on a 
self-certification basis. When her initial fixed rate ended, the mortgage reverted to BoIs 
standard variable rate (SVR). At the time Ms R was happy with the SVR.
In 2012, BoI decided to increase its SVR. Ms R says that when she got the letter telling her 
that, she decided to apply for a new interest rate  but was told that BoI couldnt offer her a 
new rate as a customer with a self-certified interest only mortgage. She says that she was 
told she could only take a new rate if she converted the mortgage to repayment terms, which 
wasnt affordable.
Ms R says she asked about rates again in 2015, only to be told the same thing.
Finally, she did take a new rate in 2019  and then, she says, she learned that she had in 
fact been eligible for a new rate all along. So she complained that BoI had misled her and 
not offered her new rates, leaving her to pay the higher SVR.
BoI said it had no record of any conversations with Ms R in either 2012 or 2015. It says it did 
offer new rates to interest only and self-certification customers, so if Ms R had asked, it 
would have offered her the rates it had available.
Our investigator looked at Ms Rs evidence. He considered her recollection of the 
conversations, and her hand-written notes. But he wasnt persuaded that Ms R had actually 
asked for new rates, so he didnt think her complaint should be upheld.
Ms R accepted that she might have been mistaken about there being a call in 2015. But she 
was adamant she had made a call in 2012. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the available evidence to decide if Ms R did make calls to BoI requesting new 
rates in 2012 and 2015.
Theres no record in BoIs files. Its provided its full contact notes, which show no contact 
from Ms R between when the mortgage was originally taken out and 2019. It says that this 
means Ms R didnt get in touch.
I dont think the absence of a record in BoIs notes is definitive evidence that must mean it 
didnt happen. A brief conversation might not be recorded by a call handler; an in principle 
discussion where Ms R didnt give her personal details wouldnt be recorded on her file; a 
mistake could have been made. Its still possible a call did happen even though theres no 
record of it.
Ive also looked at Ms Rs notes. She originally gave us copies of two sheets of paper, one 
with 2012 on it and one with 2015 on. She then told us that she had transcribed those  to 
make them more legible  from a single set of notes written on BoIs rate change letter from 
2012. So she agrees that she might be mistaken in originally believing there were two calls, 
one in 2012 and 2015. She now says that the 2015 note might not be a separate note after 
all, but a record of a discussion of a three year rate  expiring in 2015  that happened in 
2012.
The notes Ms R originally gave us  which she now says she re-wrote at a later date to 
make the figures neater  include the words no interest only / self cert rates available as 
well as some figures. However, the original notes written on the 2012 letter include the same 
figures  but not those words.
BoI has sent us the rates it had available for self-certification and interest only borrowers in 
2012. So Im satisfied it did have rates available.
The rates BoI had available dont match the figures Ms R has written on the letter, however. 
But she has written the words £195 mortgage release free on the letter. I think this is a 
reference to BoIs offer to allow customers who werent happy with the increase in the SVR 
to move to another lender  waiving the £195 exit fee it would usually charge.
The mention of the waiver of the exit fee, and the fact that the rates on the notes dont match 
the rates BoI had available, suggests to me that these are in fact notes of a conversation 
with a different lender, in which Ms R considering switching her mortgage. But for whatever 
reason, she didnt do so.
This was many years ago. Human memory is fallible, and even where events seem to be 
clearly recollected it isnt always reliable. A memory can be genuinely and honestly held  
and still be wrong. As an example, Ms R now accepts that what she initially thought was a 
memory of a call in 2015 may in fact be a mis-reading of a note made in 2012.
Having considered all the evidence, I recognise that it is limited. But I must do the best I can 
with whats available. And on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded that Ms R did 
have a call with BoI in 2012 in which it told her that no rate was available to her.
In any case, even if that did happen I dont think Ms R has made any loss. As a 
self-certification customer, the only fixed rates Ms R was eligible in 2012 were actually 
higher than its SVR  higher even than the SVR after BoI increased it.
So if this call did happen, Ms R would have been told that the only rates she could have 
were more expensive than the SVR. Taking a rate would have increased her monthly 
payments.
The rates were better than the SVR by 2015. But given what Ms R now says, I dont think 
theres any evidence that she asked for a rate in 2015. And there was at that time no 
obligation on BoI to pro-actively contact her to offer a rate.
In conclusion, even if I accept that the 2012 call did happen and Ms R was wrongly refused a 
new rate, she hasnt made a loss  since the rate offered would have been more expensive 
than the SVR she ended up paying. If BoI made a mistake in refusing Ms R a rate thats not caused her a loss, since the rate 
would have been worse than the SVR she ended up paying. And if Ms R has made a 
mistake and she wasnt refused a rate, shes ended up better off because of it. Either way 
theres no financial loss, and so I cant uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman