DRN-3771786
The complaint
V, a limited company complains that TSB Bank plc made a mistake when it transferred 
money from its account in the UK to an account oversees.
V wants TSB to compensate it for the loss incurred by the intermediary bank converting the 
payment at a lower rate than expected. 
V is represented in this complaint by Mr K, a director. 
What happened
Mr K says that he visited TSB branch to request a transfer of Pound Sterling (GBP) to an 
account overseas. Mr K says that the receiving bank was supposed to carry out the 
conversion from GBP to the relevant currency. But that TSB used an intermediary bank 
which converted the money at a much lower rate. Mr K also says that TSB took too long to 
deal with Vs complaint. Mr K wants TSB to pay compensation for the loss, stress and time 
wasted dealing with the matter. 
After Mr K complained to TSB on behalf of V, it apologised for a known issue where its 
intermediary bank had been converting international payments made in GBP into currency 
rather than crediting accounts abroad in GBP. TSB paid V £200 to apologise and invited    
Mr K to provide further details of any costs incurred such as the shortfall on payment, 
telephone, and fuel costs.
After Mr K complained to this service, TSB realised that the GBP payment made from Vs 
account, had credited a foreign currency account, not a GBP account. This meant it hadnt 
been affected by the known issue and instead, had been correctly converted before it hit the 
beneficiary account. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Vs complaint be upheld. He didnt think TSB had 
made a mistake with the payment. The investigator also said that if there was any delay after 
the money had left Vs account, it wasnt the fault of TSB. 
The investigator noted that the beneficiary of the money sent by V had said it would give a 
preferential rate if it received the funds in GBP. But that as this was something the 
beneficiary and V had agreed, it was outside the control of TSB.
Mr K on behalf of V is unhappy with the investigation outcome. He says two other people 
sent money via different banks and that this money was received in GBP, not foreign 
currency. Mr K says hes lost out financially because of the payment not being converted at 
the preferential rate he expected from the beneficiarys bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr K has lost out financially but my role is to consider whether this is due to a 
mistake that TSB has made. If I think TSB has done something wrong, I will look to put V, as 
the customer in this complaint, back in the position it wouldve been had the mistake not 
been made.
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded that TSB made a mistake with the 
international money transfer. Mr K says that TSB reassured him that the payment would 
leave Vs account in GBP which it did. But as the payment was destined for a non-GBP 
account, it was converted into the relevant currency of the beneficiarys account. Although 
Mr K says the beneficiary was able to receive other payments in GBP, this doesnt mean 
TSB made a mistake when the conversion was carried out.
I appreciate that there was some initial confusion on the part of TSB when it thought Vs 
GBP payment was destined for a GBP account and had been incorrectly converted by TSBs 
intermediary bank. Because of this TSB paid V £200 and offered to cover any additional 
costs. Once TSB became aware that the GBP payment had been paid to a foreign currency 
account, it was satisfied that it hadnt made a mistake. 
Although the beneficiary said its bank would offer a preferential rate if the money was 
received in GBP, this was a private arrangement with V. As I dont consider TSB made a 
mistake, I dont consider it reasonable to require TSB to compensate V for any loss incurred 
due to the difference in rate used. Im sorry that this will disappoint Mr K.
Although Mr K says hes found the whole experience stressful, the complaint has been made 
by limited company V which is its own legal entity. This means I cant consider the upset or 
stress that Mr K has felt personally. I can only consider whether TSB acted fairly and 
reasonably towards V. And Im satisfied that TSBs payment of £200 adequately reflects any 
inconvenience that V may have suffered. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that TSB has already done 
enough to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman