DRN-1194354
 
The complaint
This complaints about payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out to protect a credit card 
account. Mr G says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Mr G applied for a credit card with Barclays in 1996. At the same time, PPI was added to his 
account that was designed to help protect his repayments if he couldnt work due to disability 
or unemployment. It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. As Mr G didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr G says he was unaware PPI had been added to the credit card account, which he 
arranged it over the phone. I dont know for sure what happened, but Ive seen a copy of 
Mr Gs signed credit card application form. This indicates to me that the credit card and PPI 
was arranged in a branch meeting, as Barclays has said.
The form shows the box for Mr G to accept PPI was ticked  while the box to decline PPI 
was left unticked. On balance, I think Barclays made it clear that Mr G was being offered 
optional PPI and that he chose to take it  although I can understand if he doesnt remember 
that now after all this time.
If Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr G, it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover. 
Mr G says he was entitled to redundancy pay and enhanced sick pay from his employer. But 
the sick pay was at his employers discretion, so it wasnt guaranteed. The PPI benefits, on 
the other hand, were guaranteed and would have paid out in addition to his employers pay 
and for longer at up to 12 months per claim. So, I believe the PPI provided him with useful 
extra protection.  
Regarding the information Barclays gave Mr G about the PPI at the time, its possible this 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But he chose to take it out  so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Overall, I dont think Mr Gs lost out because of how Barclays sold him the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman