DRN-1955233
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car he took on hire purchase from RCI Financial Services Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. He doesnt feel RCI did enough to put things right. 
What happened
In June 2016 Mr G took a new car on hire purchase from RCI. The dealerships invoice 
recorded a cash price of around £23,000, including options and accessories. It also noted 
that the car came with a three-year or 60,000-mile manufacturers warranty. 
Shortly after he took delivery of the car, Mr G reported issues with cars stop/start system. 
The dealership was initially unable to resolve that problem, which was later traced to a faulty 
battery. 
In around April 2019 Mr G noted that the car wasnt running properly and found that the oil 
and water levels were low. The dealership advised that some models of his car were burning 
too much oil and that his car would need a new engine. That work was carried out under 
warranty, and in the meantime Mr G was given a courtesy car. 
However, the oil leak remained. This time, the dealership said the problem was a leak from 
the front crankshaft. A replacement was fitted. The dealership said that replacement parts 
were covered by the three-year warranty, just as the original parts were.
Mr G has now settled the hire purchase agreement and returned the car. He doesnt 
consider however that RCI supplied him with a car of satisfactory quality. He says too that 
the oil leaks have damaged his driveway. 
Mr G referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
noted that repairs had been completed at no cost to Mr G, but thought that RCI should pay 
him an additional £500 in recognition of the inconvenience to which hed been put. RCI 
accepted the investigators recommendations, but Mr G didnt think they went far enough. He 
asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator explained that, under the hire purchase agreement, the car was supplied by 
RCI and that that agreement was to be taken to include a term that the car be of satisfactory 
quality. He considered that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality in the circumstances. I dont 
believe I need to discuss that issue in any great detail; RCI doesnt appear to suggest the 
car was of satisfactory quality. At the time the problems with the car came to light, it was still 
under warranty; repairs were carried out under the manufacturers warranty and at no cost to 
Mr G.
The main issue I need to consider therefore is whether RCIs offer to pay Mr G £500 to 
resolve the complaint is reasonable or whether I should require it to do more. 
Mr G had to return the car on more than one occasion and, as Ive described, the repairs 
that were carried out werent always successful at the first attempt. Hes said too that the 
problems with the stop/start system lasted for some 18 months and left him stranded on a 
number of occasions. Hes also said that his driveway was damaged by the oil leaks. 
Ive considered these points carefully but, on balance, agree with the investigator that a 
payment of £500 is a fair resolution of the complaint. I believe it adequately reflects the 
additional inconvenience to which Mr G has been put as a result of the supply of a car which 
wasnt of the standard he was entitled to expect.  I simply leave it to him to decide whether, 
on reflection, hes prepared to settle the case on that basis.         
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require RCI Financial Services Limited to do anything more to 
resolve Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman