DRN-3348605
The complaint
Mr H complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) incorrectly told him his contents 
policy would lapse when it did not, leading him to arrange cover with another insurer at the 
same time. He wants the premiums paid to be refunded.
What happened
Mr H says Sainsburys contacted him about renewing his policy in March 2019. He says it 
told him the policy had lapsed as it was unable to take the premium as his payment card had 
expired. Mr H says he decided to take out cover with another insurer, who Ill call E. Mr H 
says he received a renewal notice from Sainsburys in March 2021. Mr H says he had been 
dual insured  having a policy with two insurers for the same thing  for 18 months.
He contacted Sainsburys to ask for his premiums back. Sainsburys said the only call on its 
records was from 13 April 2019 and for some reason the recording couldnt be accessed. It 
apologised for the inconvenience this caused and paid Mr H £25 compensation for this. It 
asked him to send evidence of the other policy. Mr H sent this on 3 May 2021 and 
Sainsburys said it would ask the underwriter for a refund. 
Mr H says he didnt hear anything further. He contacted Sainsburys who said he would need 
to wait for a response from the underwriter. Mr H referred his complaint to our service, 
saying as it was Sainsburys mistake it should make the refund in a timely manner.
Our investigator looked into it and decided to uphold the complaint. 
Sainsburys said the underwriter had only replied to it on 8 July 2021, agreeing to treat the 
issue as dual insurance and asking that Mr H complete a form. Sainsburys says it wrote to 
Mr H the same day asking him to contact it, but it hadnt heard from him. Mr H says he didnt 
receive this letter. Our investigator said it was clear there had been a call about the policy in 
April 2019. She said that Mr Hs explanation about what had happened was plausible. She 
didnt think he would have taken out a new policy with E if hed known the existing one with 
Sainsburys had renewed.  
Our investigator said Mr H had provided evidence that he was dual insured, and that it 
seemed more likely than not that Sainsburys had made an error. She said it was fair that it 
should refund Mr Hs premiums for the 18-month period evidenced and pay 8% interest, 
rather than asking Mr H to deal with the underwriter.   
Sainsburys didnt respond to our investigators view, so it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provision decision on 31 January 2022 I explained the reasons why I was 
planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not planning to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
When I looked at Mr Hs evidence of the dual insurance, (extracts from the policy schedules 
with E) it was difficult to follow as the dates didnt match with the telephone call with 
Sainsburys in April 2019. It looked like Mr H might have already had a pre-existing policy 
with E running from December 2018 to December 2019. With this being was modified in 
some way in September 2019. This would explain the 18-month period of dual insurance 
referred to by Mr H, being September 2019 to March 2021. 
So, I asked Mr H about this and also asked Sainsburys for some more information about the 
policy with it. Including how the premiums had been paid in 2019 and 2020, if Mr Hs 
payment card had expired.
Mr H hasnt replied. Sainsburys provided copies of the policy documents it says it posted to 
Mr H. These confirmed that a new policy was taken out in April 2019 rather than an existing 
policy being renewed as Mr H thought. This was itself renewed in 2020 and renewal 
documents were issued again in March 2021. In each case the documents were sent by 
post. The premiums had been paid by debiting Mr Hs payment card. 
The policy was for contents only cover. The partial documents from E appeared to be for 
both buildings and content cover. This didnt mean that hadnt been an error on Sainsburys 
part if it had set up the new policy despite having told Mr H it hadnt if his payment hadnt 
gone through for some reason.
In sending this information Sainsburys included the internal email chain between 
departments. In this a member of staff said the April 2019 call recording was available if 
needed. I asked if this was the case and Sainsburys have now provided the recording. Ive 
asked that a copy of it to be sent to Mr H.
Having listened to the call and considered the other evidence, its clear there has been a mix 
up, but I dont think Sainsburys has made a mistake. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to tell it to 
reimburse Mr Hs premiums in full, Ill explain why below. However, I can reassure him that it 
is usually straightforward to get this type of problem sorted out and the extra premiums hes 
paid reimbursed.
On the 13 April 2019 Mr H called Sainsburys and requested a quotation for a new contents 
policy only. He said that hed always had separate buildings and contents cover rather than 
a combined policy offering both. Mr H said he wanted the policy documents sent by post. I 
think Sainsburys very thoroughly went through everything with Mr H in this call.
Once given the premium, Mr H said he wanted to proceed with the new policy and payment 
was successfully taken from his payment card. Sainsburys confirmed this and gave Mr H 
the policy number to note down. It said the policy documents would arrive in the post within a 
few days. It said that renewal documents would be issued in March 2020, which he should 
check, but the policy would automatically renew as agreed unless he contacted it. 
Ive looked at the copies of these documents and the subsequent renewals. These appear to 
be correctly addressed. As Royal Mail does successfully deliver the vast majority of post its 
unfortunate that Mr H didnt receive these. What I think has happened is that Mr H 
subsequently added contents cover to his existing buildings insurance policy with E part way through the policy year. With the existing cover hed arranged with Sainsburys having 
slipped his mind. 
As Sainsburys hasnt made an error and E hasnt either, the way cases of accidental dual 
insurance like this are usually resolved is for each insurer to reimburse 50% of the premium 
it received over the period of dual insurance. This is because had there been a claim, each 
insurer would have been 50% liable for it. So, its fair to the insurers in that they each retain 
the premium for the risk each has taken. 
Its also fair to Mr H as he should get the extra premium, hes paid reimbursed. There may 
be some administration costs involved. If there are these will normally be set out in the policy 
documents and should be reasonable. Sainsburys only details two administration charges - 
£15 for a permanent mid-term adjustment and £25 for a cancellation. It will confirm any 
charges with Mr H.  
Unfortunately, Mr H will also need to contact E to explain what has happened and follow its 
procedures to arrange a refund from it and again there might be an administration cost. E 
will also want evidence of the dual insurance, so Ive asked that copies of the policy 
documents Sainsburys provided be sent to him.
As Sainsburys hasnt made an error, I dont think it is unreasonable for Sainsburys to 
request that Mr H does complete the paperwork it needs to process a refund for him.
At this stage I dont think Sainsburys has made an error or treated Mr H unfairly and it 
neednt do anything further than follow normal dual insurance procedures.
I asked both Mr H and Sainsburys to let me have any comments by 28 February 2022.
Response to provisional decision
Neither Mr H nor Sainsburys replied to my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive reconsidered the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
As set out in my provisional decision, I think there was a period of dual insurance, but I dont 
think Sainsburys has made any error and it hasnt treated Mr H unfairly. From the evidence 
available I think what has happened is that Mr H arranged a new contents policy with 
Sainsburys, forgot he had done so and then added contents cover to his existing buildings 
insurance policy a few months later.
If Mr H contacts both Sainsburys and E, it should be possible for him to recover the 
additional premiums he has paid. I dont think it is unreasonable for Sainsburys to ask him to 
complete the underwriters normal paperwork to process this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I do 
not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman