DRN-3625537
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc sent him a faulty debit card which resulted in him 
being caused inconvenience and embarrassment. He doesnt think the £50 compensation 
offered is enough. 
What happened
Santander sent Mr D a new debit card. He initially used the card for cash withdrawals and 
there were no issues. He then tried to make a payment in store and the card was declined 
on several occasions resulting in him needing to go and get cash to pay for his purchase. As 
the card worked to withdraw cash, Mr D thought the issue was with the stores card machine. 
However, around a week later he tried to make payment in a different store and his card was 
declined again. Mr D raised a complaint with Santander, and it said the card was faulty. It 
sent him a new card and offered him £50 compensation. Mr D says that the £50 
compensation offered by Santander isnt enough. 
Santander issued its final response letter on 8 April 2022. It apologised for the service Mr D 
had received and explained the issue was caused by a damaged chip on his card. It 
confirmed that new card had been sent and that Mr D could use his existing card for cash 
withdrawals until the new card arrived. It offered D £50 compensation but noted that he had 
declined this. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that Santander had identified the issue 
with Mr Ds card in a timely way and sent a new card to rectify the issue. He thought the offer 
of £50 compensation covered the lost time and dissatisfaction the issues caused Mr D.  
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators view. He said the issue couldnt be dismissed as 
just causing lost time and dissatisfaction. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how upsetting, inconvenient and embarrassing it would have been for Mr D 
to have his card declined in two different stores. My role isnt to punish a business when 
things go wrong but instead to ensure the customer is put back in the position they would 
have been had the issue not arisen and, where appropriate, to award compensation.
In this case Mr D experienced an issue using his card for instore transactions. He was able 
to withdraw cash and so this issue didnt mean he was without access to his money. But as 
he wasnt initially aware of what was causing the issue, he tried on two different occasions to 
make instore transactions and his card was declined. I can understand how distressing this 
would have been as Mr D tried on the first occasion to make the transaction several times 
before having to leave his shopping and go and withdraw cash to make the payment. This 
then happened around a week later when he had to ask for his items to be looked after while 
he went to find a cash machine. 
Mr D raised the issue with Santander, and it acted in a timely way to send Mr D a new card. I 
am not aware of any issues with the new card and so I find that Santander did act to put 
Mr D back in the position he would have been had the card he received not been faulty. 
However, the issues he experienced while trying to use his card were upsetting and 
inconvenient and so I agree that compensation should be paid in this case.
Santander offered to pay Mr D £50 compensation. I understand that Mr D doesnt think this 
is enough and I appreciate his strength of feeling regarding the issues he experienced. 
However, taking into consideration that Mr D was able to access his money by cash 
withdrawals, that Santander acted quickly to send a replacement card and that this issue 
was resolved after two incidents, I think that £50 is reasonable,
I also note the issue Mr D raised regarding the incorrect postcode used. Santander has 
confirmed that it has Mr Ds postcode correctly recorded in its records and the incorrect use 
was a one-off. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr D, but having considered all aspects of this complaint 
I think that the actions taken by Santander and compensation offered is reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Mr D £50 compensation as it has 
offered in resolution of this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman