DRN-3342198
The complaint
Miss E has complained that CarCashPoint Limited (CCP) was irresponsible to have 
agreed credit for her.
What happened
CCP provided Miss E with a loan of £830 in February 2019. The total amount of 
£2,025, including interest and charges, was to be repaid in 18 instalments of £112.50 
(figures rounded).
This was a log book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Miss E provided 
CCP with a bill of sale for her car. This meant that if Miss E didnt make her loan 
repayments CCP could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle.
It seems Miss E made late payments from the outset and was charged 16 late payment 
fees in total. The loan was fully repaid in January 2021.
Miss E says that CCP was irresponsible to lend to her because she was about to go on 
maternity leave and would have reduced income. Miss E also says she had four county 
court judgements at the time and fell behind on priority bills due to making the repayments 
for this loan.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Es complaint and didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. Miss E didnt accept this recommendation and asked for her complaint to come to 
an ombudsman to review and resolve. I issued a provisional decision on 28 January 2022 
explaining why I planned to uphold Miss Es complaint. Miss E agreed with my provisional 
conclusions but CCP didnt respond. This is my final decision on the matter and will be 
legally binding if Miss E accepts it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as CCP hasnt provided any new information for me to consider, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions and I am upholding Miss Es 
complaint. I will set out my reasoning again below. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, CCP will be aware of the relevant regulations so I 
will summarise them briefly here. CCP needed to check that Miss E could afford to meet 
her repayments out of her usual means without having to borrow further, without missing 
any of her existing obligations and without experiencing significant adverse impacts. This 
meant the lender was required to take reasonable steps to estimate Miss Es income and 
(non-discretionary) expenditure, and to estimate any reductions in income where it was 
reasonably foreseeable that a reduction was likely. CCP also needed to have regard to 
any information of which it was aware at the time that might have indicated that Miss E 
was in, had recently experienced or was likely to experience, financial difficulties.
The overarching requirement was that CCP needed to pay due regard to Miss Es 
interests and treat her fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this 
requirement as targeting customers with regulated credit agreements which are 
unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, 
disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did CCP complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Miss Es application to satisfy itself that she 
would be able to make her repayments wihout experiencing adverse consequences? 
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, 
did CCP make a fair lending decision?
CCP provided this Service with the information it relied on in making its lending decision. 
This included a record of its income and expenditure analysis, copies of Miss Es payslips 
from several months prior to the lending and snapshots of transactions from two of her 
bank accounts. Miss E told CCP that her monthly expenditure came to £820. CCP 
included £200 for other costs and estimated that Miss E would have about £565 left each 
month from a monthly wage of £1,585.
Miss Es relatively high surplus of close to £600 seems at odds with her being prepared 
to take out an expensive loan for £830. In addition, Miss E would need to meet her 
repayments for 18 months and the consequences of not doing so were potentially 
serious in that she might lose her car. So I think asking Miss E about her income and 
expenditure and looking to independently verify this information seems reasonable. 
However, I think the information CCP gathered ought to have raised further questions 
and concerns that Miss E was experiencing financial difficulties.
Although CCP verified Miss Es income, I cant see that the information it had helped it 
verify what Miss Es outgoings were. The snapshots of transactions it provided dont show 
any of the expenditure items Miss E declared, apart from what I have assumed to be a 
payment for rent - Miss E stated her rent was £300 a month, she now says it was in fact 
over £600 and I can see one payment to a local lettings agency for £604. The bank 
transactions for these two accounts include transfers from one account to the other, and 
also include large transactions to what seems to be another account in Miss Es name. 
Ive also noted that the payslips CCP relied on showed that Miss E had an attachment of 
earnings (AOE) for £18, which I think ought to have alerted CPP to potential financial 
difficulties.
CONC 5.2A.36R stated that a lender must not accept an application for credit under a 
regulated credit agreement where it knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that the 
customer has not been truthful in relation to information supplied. I think CCP ought to 
have taken further steps to check that the information it had about Miss Es expenditure 
was correct and complete. I also think it would have been proportionate for CCP to have 
taken steps to understand how Miss E was managing her money. Altogether, I dont think 
CCP did enough here to check that Miss E would be able to meet her loan repayments 
over the term without difficulty.
I have also considered what Miss E said about being very close to term with her 
pregnancy at the time of the loan. She says that CCP ought to have known this because 
she met them in person to deal with the loan documentation and had a photo taken of her 
standing in front
of her car. CCP said in its final response letter to Miss E: In your complaint you advised 
you were pregnant at the time of the loan being approved and having a baby would have put you on a reduced income, however you did not advise or declare your pregnancy at 
the time of sign up, and as noted above you did not declare any changes in your financial 
circumstances. Notwithstanding, it is not unreasonable to assume your employer would 
contribute to maternity pay considering your 14 years of service and the affordability 
assessment was not highly sensitive to a potential income reduction. I think had CCP 
suspected Miss E was pregnant then it ought to have taken steps to understand how this 
might impact on her ability to meet her loan repayments.
Miss E has provided information from her credit record and bank statements for another 
account into which she transferred large portions of her wages. I am not suggesting this 
is the documentation CCP ought to have relied on, but I think its a reasonably proxy for 
the information it was likely to have found out through proportionate checks.
The information shows that Miss E had four active county court judgements at the time 
of the loan: two from 2016 amounting to £675, one from January 2018 of £2,532 and 
one from November 2018 of £769. Miss E says that the attachment of earnings was for 
unpaid water charges. The statements for Miss Es other bank account show that she 
was gambling frequently and spending significantly large amounts, for example about 
£500 in each of October, November, and December 2018.
I think Miss Es spending patterns would have raised serious concerns for CCP about 
the suitability of a loan for her and the risk to her of not managing to meet her repayment 
over the term. I also think it would have shown that Miss E wasnt managing her existing 
debts and was experiencing serious and recent financial difficulty. I dont think CCP 
would have agreed to lend to Miss E on this occasion had it understood more about her 
circumstances, and so Ive concluded it was irresponsible to have done so.
Miss E says she was on maternity leave from 1 March 2019 and has provided snapshot 
summaries of her wage slips for the months May to December 2019. These show her 
wages were £863, £667, £881 and £669 for the last four months respectively, which does 
seem to support what shes told us and CCP about her personal circumstances.
I can see from Miss Es credit file that she incurred another county court judgement in July 
2019 for £1,705 and, as mentioned, shes paid late fees throughout the loan term in 
addition to the interest charged. Altogether, I think that Miss E was adversely impacted by 
CCPs lending decision and it needs to take steps to put things right for her.
Putting things right
I understand that the loan has now been repaid. As Miss E had the use of the money 
she borrowed I think its right that she has repaid that. However, I dont think she 
should have paid any interest or fees and shouldnt have her credit file impacted. In 
order to put things right for Miss E, CCP needs to:
a) Refund to Miss E payments she made above the amount she borrowed*. To 
be clear this includes any interest or charges associated with the credit or its 
collection; and
b) Add 8% simple interest** per annum to these overpayments from the date 
they were paid to the date of refund; and
c) Remove any adverse information about this loan from Miss Es credit file; and
d) Revoke the Bill of Sale for Miss Es car if this is still in place and return any 
relevant documents to her if it hasnt already done so.* Miss E says that although the loan agreement was for an amount of £830 the loan advance 
was in fact £800. Ive noted that the loan documentation included a fee of £30 for an agent 
visit fee for completion and sign up of the loan agreement which was to be deducted from 
the loan advance. If Miss E received £800 with £30 being retained as a fee then everything 
she repaid above £800 should be considered an overpayment. 
** HM Revenue & Customs requires CCP to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Miss E a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Miss Es complaint about CarCashPoint 
Limited and direct it to put things right as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman