DRN-3700675
The complaint
Mr G - a sole trader, complains on behalf of Y, about a card terminal hire agreement with 
Takepayments Limited.
What happened
In October 2021, Y took out a card terminal hire agreement with Takepayments. It was 
scheduled to run for 12 months. At the same time, Y took out a separate card acquiring 
merchant services agreement with another third-party business (B2). 
Shortly after the agreement with Takepayments commenced, Y was unhappy with the card 
terminal provided as it didnt meet their expectations. Takepayments replaced the card 
terminal and credited £60 towards Ys card acquiring account with B2.
Y complained to Takepayments and wanted £250 compensation for their experience. Y also 
asked to terminate the hire agreement early. Y waived any fees due until the end of the 
original minimum hire period. 
Y remained unhappy and referred their complaint to our Service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but recommended that Takepayments didnt need 
to do anything further. As Y didnt accept, the complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision will only address Ys complaint against Takepayments about their terminal hire 
agreement. Y also had a separate agreement with a third-party business  B2, for merchant 
card acquiring services.
The terminal provided
Y initially entered into an agreement with a 12 month minimum hire period. After Y raised 
their concerns about the terminal provided, Takepayments replaced the terminal (Y entered 
into a new contract) and credited Y a £60 goodwill payment towards their merchant services 
account with B2. I consider this a fair and reasonable resolution to this part of the complaint 
and dont require Takepayments to do anything further. 
The request to end the agreement early
Shortly afterwards, Y remained unhappy and requested to end the entire agreement early. 
As outlined above, this agreement was scheduled to run for a minimum of 12 months. 
Takepayments could have (under the terms of the agreement) charged Y what was owed for 
the remaining term of the agreement. Instead, they told Y in their final response letter:
Takepayments is not charging you for terminal hire until at least mid-October 2022, 
your new agreement stipulates that you must complete at least the 12 month 
minimum period of hire, so your agreement cannot end any sooner than this. If you 
wish to place notice to end the agreement at the end of the minimum hire period, 
please email
I consider this a fair and reasonable remedy  as under the terms of the agreement 
Takepayments could have requested payment for the remainder of the minimum term. This 
effectively satisfied Ys request to be allowed to exit the agreement early  providing they 
gave the appropriate notice to Takepayments. 
Y told our Service in an email dated 29 July 2022 that Takepayments had closed their 
account. Ive not seen confirmation of this from Takepayments. Should Y have not received 
official confirmation, they should clarify with Takepayments - given that their minimum term 
agreement wouldve likely been due to renew unless notice was given by Y. 
Ys request for additional compensation
Y has asked for £250 compensation for the service they received from Takepayments. But 
Im not persuaded that such an award would be appropriate or proportionate here. Whilst its 
not in dispute that things didnt go as well as either party wouldve liked and Y did have to 
contact them on a number of occasions - on balance, I find the actions already taken by 
Takepayments to be proportionate to the impact on Y.  
Although my decision will disappoint Y, it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying 
to informally resolve their dispute with Takepayments.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman