DRN-2013963
The complaint
Mrs G complains about Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds decision to cease 
her income protection benefit.
What happened
Mrs G had access to a group income protection policy through her former employer. The 
policy was designed to pay a proportion of her income in the event she became 
incapacitated and unable to work in her own occupation. And Mrs G went on to make a 
successful claim on the policy after becoming absent from work in September 2018 with joint 
pain and depression. 
Mrs G began receiving an income protection benefit in March 2019. However, following a 
Functional Capability Assessment in September 2019, Legal and General made the decision 
to cease her benefit; stating the available medical evidence no longer indicated she was 
precluded from returning to her own occupation. It made the last benefit payment in 
November 2019. 
Mrs G complained about Legal and Generals decision, but its position didnt change so she 
referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at what had happened. He thought Legal and General had acted 
reasonably in concluding the available medical evidence no longer indicated that Mrs Gs 
physical symptoms were preventing her from working. However, he didnt think Legal and 
General had done enough to establish that Mrs Gs psychological problems were no longer 
prevent her from working. 
Both sides provided further evidence to support their positions. Having reviewed it, our 
investigator explained his findings had changed. He now thought Legal and General had 
provided medical evidence which indicated Mrs Gs psychological problems were no longer 
preventing her from working. So didnt think Legal and General had unreasonably ceased 
Mrs Gs income protection benefit, and didnt recommend her complaint be upheld. 
Mrs G disagreed and said her physical health was still preventing her from being able to 
work. She said she suffered from pain most days, and set out some of the difficulties she 
continued to encounter. She also expressed frustration at the opinions that had been given 
in relation to her health, and said she was angered at not being believed. So as no 
agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings will only focus on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint. And so, although its clear Mrs G feels very strongly about whats happened, I will 
not address every point or argument that has been made. 
As noted above, the group policy was designed to pay a proportion of Mr Gs income in the 
event that she became incapacitated and unable to work in her own occupation. The policy 
defined that as follows:
Own occupation means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that 
prevents him from performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the 
start of the deferred period. The insured members capacity to perform the essential duties if 
his own occupation will be determined whether or not that occupation remains available to 
him.
It further defined essential duties as:
the duties that are normally required for the performance of the insured members 
occupation and which cannot reasonably be omitted or amended.
Mr G disagrees with the way Legal and General has interpreted the medical evidence in this 
complaint and says that she remains incapacitated. I appreciate her position on this, and I 
empathise with the difficulties she has told this services she still faces. But having 
considered the available medical evidence, Im not persuaded that Legal and General acted 
unreasonably in concluding that she no longer met the above definition and deciding to 
cease her claim. Ill explain why:
In September 2019 Mrs G underwent a Functional Capability Assessment (FCA). 
The objective of the assessment was to determine her current function, especially in 
relation to her ability to return to work. And if appropriate provide recommendations 
surrounding any treatment or management of her health. The FCA included things 
like; computerized range of motion exams and isometric muscle tests, assessment of 
demonstrated ability of activities synonymous with Mrs Gs role, grip exams, and lift 
tests. 
Following the assessment, the FCA clinician reported that the assessment did not 
identify any objective clinical signs to account for the level of symptoms and disability 
reporting and it is therefore difficult to offer any further treatment recommendation. 
They also said that Mrs Gs demonstrated functional capabilities today were 
compatible with the physical demands of her sedentary work role.
I acknowledge that Mrs G disagrees with the findings of the FCA. But Legal and 
General was entitled to rely on the medical evidence made available to it when 
assessing the validly of her ongoing claim. And I dont think it acted unreasonably in 
concluding that the FCA findings suggested there were no physical problems 
preventing a return to work. 
When Mrs G was discharged from cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), the medical 
evidence suggested that she was still suffering from psychological problems. But 
after being asked further information about her ability to work, Mrs Gs CBT therapist 
said that although Mrs G still had psychological problems, she needed to implement 
the techniques that had previously been taught to her. And that no further CBT 
sessions were necessary whilst Mrs G hadnt yet done so.
Legal and General also asked the CBT therapist presumably if the physical 
symptoms were therefore addressed, these residual psychological symptoms she 
was left to self-manage at discharge would not be of significant severity to create a 
barrier to return to work with appropriate support and reasonable adjustment?. 
The CBT therapist confirmed that this was correct. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Legal and General to conclude that the medical evidence no longer suggested that psychological problems were preventing Mrs G from returning to work 
either.
I note the further evidence that Mrs G has provided  diagnosis of moderate lumbar 
spondylosis, fibromyalgia and moderate degenerative changes in both hips, and an 
occupational health (OH) report saying shes not fit for work. But as our investigator 
rightly explained, no treatment was recommended as a result of the above diagnosis, 
and no commentary was made around how the diagnosis impacted Mrs Gs ability to 
return to work. Additionally, the OH report did not comment on Mrs Gs ability to work 
at the point Legal and General stopped paying the income protection benefit. So I 
dont think this evidence demonstrates that Mrs G remained unable to return to work 
at the point Legal and General ceased her benefit. And, consequently, Im still of the 
opinion that Legal and General acted reasonably based on the medical evidence 
available to it. 
I acknowledge the points Mrs G has made in relation to her ongoing pain and the frustration 
and anger she has expressed. But for the reasons given above I am not persuaded that 
Legal and General acted unreasonably. And so, although I empathise with the position shes 
said she is still in, I will not be interfering with Legal and Generals decision to cease her 
income protection benefit.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman