Complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly 
increased their cost of his pet insurance policy. 
As the policy was taken out in Mr A's name I will only refer to him in this decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the 
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies usually wont cover any 
medical conditions the pet had or had received treatment for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed. So ongoing or recurring medical conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies, like the one Mr A took out, will continue to cover any 
medical conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year. 
These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will 
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear to Mr A. It has accepted 
the information it gave Mr A about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
RSA has offered to pay him £200 compensation for the trouble and upset hes been caused 
as a result of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances 
of Mr As complaint.
Mr A has told us he is not happy with the offer RSA has made. 
Its important to be clear that businesses are entitled to decide how much to charge for the 
insurance cover they provide. I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance 
should cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should operate  
and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mr As policy is too high, he should have 
been charged less for the policy or that he should be charged less in the future.
While Mr As premium has seen a significant increase, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated him differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder 
in the same position. So I cant tell RSA to charge him a lower premium going forwards.
I understand Mr A will be disappointed with this, as this was the outcome he had hoped for. I 
recognise that the situation has caused him upset and hes now cancelled his policy losing 
cover for his pet. 
DRN-1884933But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mr A the information he needed to understand he 
could end up in the position he now finds himself in. Where I find something has gone 
wrong, Ill look at whats likely to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
Mr A chose to take out pet insurance, so he wanted some type of cover for his pet. And, as 
he chose to take out a lifetime policy, he clearly had some interest in the greater level of 
cover it provided. If Mr A hadnt taken a lifetime policy, he wouldve either had no cover at all, 
and would have had to pay for any treatments for his pet himself, or a reduced level of cover, 
where he could have found himself in a situation where any condition his pet had wouldnt be 
covered past the first year.  
While I can see that Mr A didnt actually need to make many claims and it doesnt look like 
his pet had any ongoing conditions, he wouldnt have known this when taking out the policy. 
The nature of insurance is to protect against what might happen in the unknown future. So I 
think its likely he would still have gone ahead with the lifetime policy, even if hed known the 
premium could increase significantly in the future. 
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Mr A wasnt as 
surprised and upset when the cost increased to such a significant amount  instead this 
would have been something he knew could happen. 
I note Mr A experienced some substantial increases in his premiums in the years leading up 
to the increase in 2019 - which triggered his complaint. And he decided to continue with the 
cover even though he was aware these types of increase were possible. So although I think 
he was surprised and upset at the amount of 2019s premium causing him to cancel and 
lose the cover, I dont think he would have been greatly shocked by the increase. And as Mr 
As pet doesnt appear to have any existing conditions I think it would be possible for Mr A to 
get cover elsewhere, although I recognise this may be harder considering the age of Mr As 
pet. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises that better information about the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided some of the trouble and upset Mr A has experienced. 
And I think it fairly compensates Mr A.
My final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs offer to pay Mr A £200 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman