DRN-3348437
The complaint
Miss S complains that a car acquired with finance from MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In August 2019 Miss S was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
MotoNovo. Within a few months of purchasing the car, Miss S noticed that it was consuming 
lots of oil. She reported this to the dealer and the oil was topped up, but the issue continued 
and Miss S complained to MotoNovo. MotoNovo arranged for an inspection which concluded 
that there wasnt a fault with the car.
Miss S continued to experience issues with oil consumption. In January 2021 the car broke 
down. Miss S complained to MotoNovo again and it arranged a further inspection. The 
engineer said the exhaust valve on number 3 cylinder head had burnt and said this hadnt 
been present at the point of supply and would have happened after the car had passed its 
last MOT. 
Miss S arranged her own inspection. The engineer said there was an issue with oil 
consumption and that this was a known manufacturing fault with the engine, although he 
couldnt say whether the fault would have been present at the point of supply.
Based on the further reports, MotoNovo said it wasnt upholding the complaint. Miss S 
complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She was satisfied that 
there was a fault with the car which cause excessive oil consumption, and she was 
persuaded by the engineers report which said this was a known fault with the engine. She 
said MotoNovo should pay for repairs.
Motonovo didnt agree. It said the first engineer had extensively road tested the car but 
hadnt found evidence of excessive oil consumption. It said the second engineer had said 
that the burnt valve had occurred after the last MOT and was due to wear and tear. 
I issued a provisional decision in which I reviewed all three engineers reports and decided 
that although there was a fault with the car, I wasnt persuaded that the fault had been 
present at the point of supply. I said I didnt think MotoNovo was responsible for the repairs.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wanted to raise.
Miss Ss representative replied and said he didnt agree with my decision. He said he 
thought the last engineers report was the most accurate and said he thought it was up to 
MotoNovo to show that the fault wasnt present at the point of supply because it had arisen 
in the first 6 months. He referred to a class action against the manufacturer in another 
country and referred me to a video on social media. He said the second engineers report 
was frustrating and he didnt think the engineer had engaged properly. Ive taken everything 
that Miss Ss representative has said into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all of the engineering reports again and Ive taken the further comments into 
account. Having done so, my view hasnt changed.  The first inspection concluded that the 
car wasnt consuming excess oil and that there was no point of supply fault. The second 
engineer found a burnt exhaust valve which he said would cause excessive oil consumption, 
but said that the burnt valve would have been apparent at MOT and therefore must have 
occurred since the last MOT. The car had passed two MOTs since the point of supply. The 
third engineers report said the car had suffered oil loss and relied on a consumer group 
article. I wasnt persuaded that the consumer group article caried sufficient weight.
Having reconsidered everything, my view remains the same as that which I reached in my 
provisional decision. I think its more likely that the fault was due to general wear and tear. 
There isnt enough evidence to persuade me that the fault was present at the point of supply.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman