DRN-3549093
The complaint
Mr C and Ms M complain that Santander UK Plc declined their application to port their 
mortgage and take additional borrowing.
 
What happened
In May 2020, Mr C and Ms M took out a new mortgage product with Santander on an 
interest only basis. The mortgage was for a total borrowing of £446,998 over a term of 
22 years and 10 months. It had an initial five-year fixed interest rate of 1.49% until 2 August 
2025.
In November 2020, a larger property came on the market in Mr C and Ms Ms 
neighbourhood which they wanted to purchase. They approached a broker to enquire about 
what mortgage would be available and say Santanders affordability calculator gave a total 
borrowing figure of £908,000. So, they made an offer on the property, which was accepted, 
and submitted a formal application to port their mortgage and take additional borrowing. 
Santander reviewed the application and explained the maximum it could lend if Mr C and 
Ms M ported their mortgage and took additional borrowing was approximately £796,000. It 
also explained that it could lend £908,000 if Mr C and Ms M ended their current mortgage 
and took out a new mortgage. However, if they did this an early repayment charge (ERC) of 
£22,349.90 would be payable.   
Mr C and Ms M eventually ended their current mortgage and paid the ERC. They say they 
did this because otherwise they would have lost the property and didnt think it was right to 
break their agreement with the seller. However, feeling they had been mis-led by Santander 
they raised a complaint. 
Santander responded explaining that because not all of the borrowing was to be taken on a 
five year or greater than fixed rate, the requested loan amount of £908,000 was 
unaffordable. It acknowledged that Mr C and Ms M felt this policy was unfair, but it explained 
it couldnt agree to their request to refund the ERC. However, it recognised that some of the 
wording used in the application process may have caused some misunderstanding, so sent 
a cheque for £100 to Mr C and Ms M for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our Investigator didnt think Santander had acted unfairly. They explained that Santander 
had applied its lending criteria fairly to Mr C and Ms Ms application to port their mortgage 
and take additional borrowing. They also didnt think Santander had acted unfairly by 
charging the ERC when the existing mortgage was redeemed. However, they did think some 
of the information Santander provided about the amount of borrowing and the need for this 
all to be on at least a five-year fixed interest rate could have been clearer  but they felt the 
£100 offered for the distress and inconvenience was reasonable.
Mr C and Ms disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. They explained that their 
mortgage was portable and that their application request complied with Santanders 
standard mortgage terms and conditions. They said the terms and conditions state that if a 
new mortgage contract is entered into within three months from the date they discharged 
their previous mortgage, Santander would refund all or some of any ERC. They also 
question the calculations Santander used to calculate affordability.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to be clear that my decision wont address every point made by either Mr C and Ms M 
or Santander. I mean no discourtesy by this and I would like to reassure both parties that Ive 
carefully considered all the evidence provided. But my decision will address what I see to be 
relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Mr C and Ms M have made reference to section 19 Transferring your loan to a new 
mortgage of the terms and conditions of their mortgage. They have argued that all of the 
conditions were met in this section to enable them to port their existing mortgage. However, 
it is not just these terms and conditions Mr C and Ms M needed to meet in order to port their 
mortgage  they also needed to meet Santanders current lending criteria and affordability 
assessment. This is outlined in section 9 Flexible features of Mr C and Ms Ms mortgage 
offer, where it states:
You have the right to transfer this loan to another property. You must meet the conditions 
set out in the mortgage conditions under Transferring your loan to a new mortgage. You 
must also meet our lending criteria and pass our affordability assessment at the time. 
I appreciate that Mr C and Ms M were initially told that borrowing of £908,000 was affordable 
when the broker completed the affordability calculator  and that they say Santander 
completed a manual override to allow for an Agreement in Principle. However, an 
affordability calculator and Agreement in Principle isnt a guarantee that a mortgage would 
be approved  as any application still needs to go through underwriting before being agreed. 
Santander has explained that Mr C and Ms M were unable to port their mortgage and take 
additional borrowing  giving a total balance of £908,000  as it was deemed unaffordable. It 
says that it would only have been affordable for Mr C and Ms M to port their mortgage and 
take additional borrowing up to a total balance of approximately £796,000. The reason for 
this was because Mr C and Ms Ms existing mortgage had less than 5 years left on its fixed 
interest rate term, so different affordability criteria had to be used. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook (MCOB) sets out the 
rules a lender must follow when assessing an application for a mortgage and providing 
lending. One aspect is that it says a lender must consider the effect of future interest rate 
rises over a minimum period of five years from the expected start of the mortgage term, 
unless the interest rate of the mortgage is fixed for five years or more from that time. 
Interest rate stress tests are used to predict future affordability of a mortgage. It helps 
lenders establish, as much as possible, whether a mortgage will remain affordable for a 
customer if interest rates were to increase in the future. If a stress test shows a mortgage 
might become unaffordable in the future, it can often lead to a lender revising the amount it 
is willing to lend  to ensure it is acting as a responsible lender. Where a mortgage has a 
fixed interest rate product, it provides further certainty that even if interest rates were to rise 
a customer would continue to be able to afford a mortgage  as the interest rate and 
payment wont change for the duration of the fixed rate product.      
As Mr C and Ms Ms current mortgage had less than five years left on its fixed interest rate, it 
meant Santander was unable to apply concessionary interest rate stress tests that it could of if all of the mortgage interest rate was fixed for five years or more, resulting in a reduced 
acceptable total borrowing of approximately £796,000. The affordability calculator document 
Mr C and Ms M have provided stated: 
The loan amount of £908,000 is affordable if all the borrowing is taken on a 5 year fixed rate 
or greater*. If all the borrowing is NOT on a five year fixed rate or greater then the loan 
amount requested isnt affordable.
Having read this, I think it could have been clearer and I understand why it caused confusion 
with what was potentially affordable. I think it could have specified that the fixed rate needed 
to have a remaining five years  rather than be on a five year fixed rate as Mr C and Ms Ms 
mortgage was. However, this doesnt mean that I think Santander should accept the porting 
and additional borrowing application for £908,000, as Santander needs to ensure a 
mortgage remains affordable in the future  which is what it has done when assessing the 
application to port and take additional borrowing. 
In order for Mr C and Ms M to obtain the required borrowing they needed, Santander 
correctly informed them they would need to redeem their current mortgage and take out all 
the borrowing on a new fixed rate for five years or more  however by doing this they would 
incur an ERC. Santander didnt refuse Mr Cs and Ms Ms porting application, it was just 
unable to lend the amount of additional borrowing they required to purchase the property if 
they were to port their mortgage. I appreciate this is likely to be a disappointment to Mr C 
and Ms M but I think Santander fairly assessed their application to port their mortgage and 
take additional borrowing  following the relevant rules set out in MCOB. 
When a lender offers a fixed rate mortgage product, both the lender and borrower are tied 
into the fixed rate for the time period outlined. There are costs associated with a lender 
raising funds to lend, which it recovers through interest payments. If a borrower repays the 
mortgage early, during the fixed rate term, the lender stops receiving interest payments and 
therefore is put at risk of not recovering its own costs it incurred when raising the funds to 
lend. Therefore, an ERC is usually a standard term in most mortgage contracts. 
The ERC is not a penalty. A penalty has a distinct meaning in law; its a contractual term that 
applies where there is a breach of contract. But when Mr C and Ms Ms mortgage was 
repaid, there was no breach of contract. Thats because the contract allowed for the 
mortgage to be repaid if Mr C and Ms M paid an ERC. 
Section 8 of Mr C and Ms Ms mortgage offer outlines their right to redeem the mortgage 
early, but explains that if it is done before 2 August 2025 that an ERC of 5% of the amount 
repaid will be charged  in this case £22,349.90. Having reviewed the mortgage offer and 
transaction history for the mortgage, Im satisfied Santander correctly charged the ERC.
I appreciate that Mr C and Ms M may have felt that their only option was to redeem the 
mortgage and incur an ERC. However, this is not something I can fairly hold Santander 
responsible for. Once the application had been assessed Santander was clear it couldnt 
lend the additional amount Mr C and Ms M needed if they ported their mortgage. It outlined 
the options available to Mr C and Ms M and made it clear if they were to redeem their 
mortgage an ERC would be applicable. Therefore, Im satisfied Mr C and Ms M had the 
information they needed to make an informed decision about incurring an ERC. 
Mr C and Ms M have made reference to section 20 of the terms and conditions of their 
mortgage, where is states: If you enter a new mortgage with us within three months of the date on which we discharge 
this mortgage, we may refund all or some of any early repayment charge which you paid at 
the time when this mortgage was discharged. 
Firstly, this doesnt indicate that all of the ERC would definitely be refunded if Mr C and Ms M 
were to enter into a new mortgage contract within three months of the date their current 
mortgage was discharged as they have suggested. It states that Santander may refund all or 
some of the ERC. Secondly, this term is under section 20 Refunding an early repayment 
charge on a transfer of your loan to a new mortgage. Mr C and Ms M didnt transfer, or as it 
is often referred to, port their loan to a new mortgage. They redeemed their mortgage in full 
and took out an entirely new mortgage for a new amount of borrowing. Therefore, Im 
satisfied this term doesnt apply and Santander fairly applied the ERC.
Having reviewed all the information available I do agree that Santander could have identified 
earlier that Mr C and Ms M werent going to be able to port their mortgage and take the full 
amount of additional borrowing they needed to purchase the new property. I also think they 
could have been clearer and more forthcoming with the information and reasons they gave 
Mr C and Ms M about why they could only lend a total borrowing of approximately £796,000. 
In recognition of this Santander has arranged for a cheque of £100 to be sent to Mr C and 
Ms M. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances as it takes into account the 
distress and inconvenience Mr C and Ms M experienced when finding out they couldnt port 
their mortgage and borrow the amount of additional funds they needed. I also think it takes 
into account the unclear information Santander provided.
 
My final decision
My decision is that the £100 offered by Santander UK Plc is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
This should be paid to Mr C and Ms M if not already done so.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman