DRN-4378536
The complaint
Ms D complains about a decision taken by Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to
not refund a payment she made using her credit card.
What happened
On 12 December 2022 a warrant of control (in respect of an unpaid penalty charge) was
issued by the court to an applicant that I will call T.
T appointed a company that I will call M to exercise its rights under the warrant dated
12 December 2022.
M successfully seized Ms Ds car.
On 7 March 2023 M wrote to Ms D to say that her car would be sold at auction on
21 March 2023 unless she paid it £1,183 plus storage costs.
On 11 March 2023 Ms D paid M £1,273 to secure the return of her car, £1,183 plus £90
storage costs.
Ms D disputed the above payment with Barclaycard, who after an investigation concluded
there were no grounds for a refund. However, for failing to advise Ms D in a timely manner
that was the conclusion it had reached Barclaycard paid Ms D £25 compensation and
refunded £68.01 in interest.
Ms Ds complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that
Barclaycard had done nothing wrong in coming to the conclusion there were no grounds to
refund Ms D the sum she was seeking.
Ms D didnt agree with the investigators view and so her complaint was passed to me
for review and decision.
In September 2023 I issued a provisional decision. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Ms D has very strong feelings about this complaint, and I can confirm Ive read and
considered everything she has submitted. However, I trust that Ms D will not take the fact
that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are
expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to
address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and
reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ms D submits that M had no right (including a legal right) to seize her car. And had M not
seized her car she wouldnt have had the need to pay M for its return or the need to raise a
payment dispute with Barclaycard.
I need to make clear my role isnt to decide whether M had the rights to seize Ms Ds car, but
whether Barclaycard acted fairly and reasonably, based on what Ms D provided it, in
concluding there was no grounds for a refund to be made.
Where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card that has been
authorised by them, the card provider can consider the dispute under two guises
chargeback and section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. And I would expect the card
provider to consider both avenues.
chargeback
The chargeback process is a way in which payment settlement disputes can be resolved
between card issuers (in this case Barclaycard) and merchants (in this case M). The rules
for what payments can be processed through chargeback are set by the card scheme, not
Barclaycard. There are different reasons a chargeback can be processed, but unfortunately
for Ms D, and despite what she says on this point, Im satisfied there was no valid reason
under the relevant scheme rules (in this case Visa) that Barclaycard could have used to
raise a chargeback.
Furthermore, based on what Ms D has submitted to our service, Im satisfied that even had a
chargeback been attempted by Barclaycard (regardless of the reason code used) this, more
likely than not, would have been defended by M to the extent that it would have been entirely
reasonable for Barclaycard to have then concluded there was no reasonable prospect of
success in pursuing the matter any further.
So, I dont think that Ms D has lost out as a result of what Barclaycard did, or didnt, do in
this respect.
section 75
In summary, section 75 holds Barclaycard jointly liable (as the provider of credit) for any
breach of contract or misrepresentation by M (who Ms D paid using her credit card),
provided that certain conditions are met. For completeness, Im satisfied those conditions
are met here.
Now having considered everything Ms D has said and submitted its my understanding that
M contracted to return Ms Ds car to her on payment of £1,273 and this is what it did. Its
also my understanding that this is how the contract was represented to Ms D by M.
So, Im not persuaded that there has been any breach of contract or misrepresentation in the
particular circumstances of this case that would make Barclaycard liable to Ms D under
section 75.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Barclaycard did nothing wrong in concluding there were no
grounds on which it should have to refund to Ms D the sum she was seeking. And this is
regardless of whether Ms D might be able, through the appropriate channels and in due
course, prove the warrant issued to T is, for one or more reasons, invalid.For the sake of completeness, I would add that Im satisfied that Barclaycards decision to
pay £25 and to refund £68.01 in interest is as much as, if not more than, I would have
awarded Ms D for what Barclaycard says was a failure on its part to advise her, in a timely
manner, that it was satisfied there were no grounds for it to have to refund the sum of
£1,273.
Barclaycard responded to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add.
Ms D responded to my provisional decision to say that she didnt believe I had addressed or 
answered 28 questions and further investigation (into her complaint) was required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D hasnt provided any material new evidence or information for my consideration. So 
given this and given that Barclaycard has confirmed it has nothing further to add I can 
confirm I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and I now confirm them as 
final. 
However, for the sake of completeness and clarity, I would like to make some further 
comments and observations. These further comments and observations dont necessarily 
answer all of the questions Ms D has raised in response to my provisional decision. But we 
are not a court and Im not required to comment on each point or question raised or make 
specific determinations on every submission put forward. However, I can assure Ms D that 
Ive considered all the questions she has raised and reconsidered everything she has 
previously said and submitted to our service.
As I said in my provisional decision, and again in this final decision, Ive considered 
all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And where the information Ive got is incomplete, 
unclear or contradictory, my decision is based on the balance of probabilities.
Ive not verified the warrant issued to T, nor do I need to reach a fair and reasonable 
finding on this case. 
Im satisfied the car was successfully seized by M (or its agents) because if it hadnt 
been there would have been no need for Ms D to pay M for its return.
Im satisfied, based on what has been said and provided, that T appointed M to 
exercise its rights under the warrant.
Im aware of when Ms D says she received Ms letter dated 7 March 2023 and what 
she says about the receipt, or lack of receipt, of various other letters.
Im satisfied that there was a contract in place, this being for the return to Ms D of her 
car on payment of £1,273.
Im satisfied that what Ms D was charged for was the return of her car.
Im satisfied that payment was made by Ms D for the return of her car.
I remain of the view, based on everything that has been said and provided, that on 
the balance of probabilities any chargeback would have been defended by M and 
successfully so. 
Contracts dont need to be signed to be valid.
Im satisfied that Ms D has had sufficient time to provide Barclaycard with evidence in 
support of why she believes her section 75 claim against it should be upheld, 
including evidence that the warrant issued to T is invalid. I remain of the view, and for the reasons given in my provisional decision, that 
Barclaycard did nothing wrong in concluding there were no grounds on which it 
should have to refund to Ms D the sum she was seeking under section 75.
My role is to decide whether Barclaycard acted fairy and reasonably in declining 
Ms Ds request for a refund based on what it was provided with  by Ms D, M or 
others. And for the reasons Ive given I remain of the view that decision was both fair 
and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman