DRN-4111538
The complaint
Mr T complains about how Curve OS Limited handled his refunds and poor customer service 
they gave him.
What happened
Mr T had received refunds to his Curve Cash account instead of the original payment card. 
He had tried several times to get Curve to pay the money to the original payment card but 
with no success. There was an error of a refund which equated to 5p. Mr T says that he was 
given different timescales for the refund and was requested bank details and statements, but 
they credited the refunds to his Curve Cash account regardless. He requested a call with 
Curve instead of messaging as he didnt believe he was able to get his points across over 
messages, but he says Curve didnt respond to him. It was only when he was able to speak 
with a representative that he says the problem was identified and resolved immediately on 
the 20 minute call. Mr T made a complaint to Curve. 
Curve upheld Mr Ts complaint. They said they credited his Curve Cash account with a £10 
goodwill gesture for having to send multiple emails to chase things up. They said his request 
for a call back should have been honoured. Curve explained the reasons why they have to 
process refunds in the way they did. But they acknowledged the service they gave him was 
poor and credited an additional £25 to his Curve Cash account. Mr T brought his complaint 
to our service.
Curve told our investigator that due to human error, a refund hadnt been processed for 
£52.19 and as such they have now processed this refund and they offered to increase the 
compensation by another £50 to total £85 compensation. Our investigator said that £85 
compensation was fair and reasonable as the information about how Curve processes 
refunds is available on their website, so this wouldve been available for Mr T to view prior to 
him opening his account. He said there was an error of a refund which equated to 5p which 
he said Curve resolved promptly.
Mr T asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said he made many attempts to communicate with Curve to resolve the 
problem, but they refused to communicate and correct the mistakes. He said he had not 
received £85 compensation from Curve. Mr T said that he was shocked with the number of 
incorrect details in their final response letter, and that every time they provided incorrect 
information, this inconvenienced him by having to gather evidence and escalate this. He said 
compensation should be aligned to the time lost by their mistakes, incorrect information, 
refusal to communicate and correct mistakes from the beginning.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
I would like to clear up the confusion regarding the compensation offer. When Curve wrote to 
Mr T with their final response offer, they said they had credited £10 to his Curve Cash 
account. Later on in the response, they said they had credited his account with £25 as well 
as the aforementioned gesture. So £35 should have been credited to Mr Ts account. But 
looking at the response to Mr Ts points he raised about their final response letter, they only 
mention £25 and not £35.
When Mr T brought his complaint to our service, we asked Curve for their business file. 
When they were compiling their response to us, they realised that due to a human error, the 
bank transfer of £52.19 was not processed. They have sent us evidence that it has since 
been processed. This meant that instead of Mr T receiving this money by 9 February 2022, 
he would receive it by 16 March 2022. Due to this error and everything that had happened, 
Curve increased their offer of compensation by £50 to total £85, but as Mr Ts complaint was 
with our service to decide what was fair and reasonable as a result of Mr Ts complaint, then 
this is why the full £85 has not been paid to Mr T yet.
Im persuaded that there have been a number of times that Mr T was let down by Curve. 
There were typos and seemingly conflicting information about the refunds and a lack of 
explanation about 5p differences. Mr T had asked Curve to contact him by phone, but future 
messages didnt acknowledge this and some points he made in messages werent 
responded to. So it would appear to Mr T that Curve were ignoring him, when it was clear 
from the tone in his messages that he really needed the refunds to be processed and paid to 
his bank account. 
When Mr T messaged Curve, he received a response which either said A human will review 
your message and will be in touch with you within the next 48 hours or We aim to get back 
to the new requests within 48 hours. Curve did typically get back to Mr T within 48 hours. 
With the automatic responses about the refund, they included links to the refund section of 
their website. The website shows that Refunds arent processed by retailers in real-time 
and we tend to receive them 1-5 working days after theyve been requested. Youll be able to 
get your money back straight to your payment card or to your Curve Cash account. The 
same page also shows If for any reason your refund cant be matched to the original 
transaction, well instantly process it to your Curve Cash account. The refund will show in 
your Curve Cash balance on the date it was refunded.
So Im satisfied that Curve made it clear that there are occasions where they cant refund the 
money direct to the original bank account. Due to how the merchants had processed the 
refunds, then this is why Curve said they credited Mr Ts Curve Cash account with the 
money as the transactions werent matched. I know Mr T feels their matching/tracking 
system is flawed, but as this is a business decision what system Curve decide to use, this is 
not something our service can interfere with. Mr T had stressed the importance of receiving 
the money into his bank account as he couldnt withdraw the money at a cash machine. Im 
persuaded that Curve did try to get the money paid into his bank account, but this is where 
there may have been a breakdown of communication by seemingly quoting different 
timescales for the refunds. one-five working days, seven days, seven working days, ten days 
and ten working days were quoted at various points of the process. 
Mr T first contacted Curve on 22 January 2022. Then he sent multiple messages to them 
from 24-26 January 2022. He received a phone call from a Curve representative on 26 
January 2022, so Im not persuaded that he had to wait too long outside of Curves 
timescales of 48 hours for a response. But what will have distressed Mr T is when he 
received messages back from Curve during this timeframe which did not make reference to 
the phone call he had asked for. Curve should have acknowledged this sooner than they did. When Mr T was able to speak to them on the phone, a refund was agreed. Mr T even got an 
email to confirm this. The email said that if Mr T did not receive the refund by 9 February 
then he should reach out to them. Due to human error, this wasnt processed as it should 
have been. So it was only as a result of our involvement that Curve realised this error when 
Mr T didnt get in touch with them by 9 February, as he was told to if he didnt receive the 
refund. While Mr T didnt take action to mitigate this delay, Im satisfied that this would have 
still added to his distress in not receiving this money back in light of his previous experience 
with Curve.
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. Its clear there were 
times where there was a breakdown of communication or a lack of communication. This 
often resulted in Mr T needing to clarify things with Curve such as his response to their final 
response letter where there were a number of points Curve didnt address. While Curve 
responded to him, there were still times where information wasnt forthcoming or wasnt clear 
 or acted upon in a timely manner. Im persuaded that a total of £85 compensation is fair for 
what happened here. It is in line with what I would have awarded Mr T if Curve did not 
uphold his complaint. 
I understand Mr T may not feel this is sufficient compensation for what happened here, but 
compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business 
has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer 
over and above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend 
compensation, it is often modest and within our established guidelines. So Im persuaded 
that a total of £85 compensation is fair for the impact the poor customer service had on Mr T, 
so it follows Ill be asking Curve to put things right for him.
Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested that Curve pay a total of £85 compensation to Mr T for 
distress and inconvenience, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Curve OS Limited should pay Mr T £85 compensation (minus any 
payments they have already made to him) for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman