DRN-4360835
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt do enough to protect her 
when she fell victim to a scam.
Mrs A is represented by a third-party in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to Mrs A throughout this decision.   
What happened
Mrs A was contacted by someone offering a task-based job opportunity where she would be 
paid to complete tasks such as on-line reviews. Mrs A didnt think this was unusual as she 
had been looking for a job and had entered her details on some job sites. She was attracted 
to this opportunity as she could work from home and still care for her family.
To get paid Mrs A needed to pay an advance fee  which she did. Initially things seemed to 
go as planned and Mrs A received some payments for the tasks she completed. Ultimately 
Mrs A made around 13 payments over three days totalling £21,990.84. 
Mrs A discovered she had been a victim of a scam when she was told she needed to pay 
more money to get paid and when she tried to withdraw money all contact with the scammer 
was cut off. She complained to Halifax as she didnt think it had done enough to protect her 
from falling victim to the scam.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the initial payments Mrs A had made were 
low value and werent unusual when compared to her usual account activity. But when the 
payments became unusual, Halifax spoke to Mrs A and she said she was investing money  
something shed done before, and was making some good returns. She also said that no 
one else was involved in the payments. So, Halifax let the payments go through. Unhappy 
with the response Mrs A referred her complaint to this service.      
          
One of our investigators looked in the complaint but he didnt uphold it. He noted that Halifax 
had contacted Mrs A in relation to two of the larger payments she was making and had 
asked her several questions about the purpose of the payments. And based on the answers 
Mrs A gave, he didnt think Halifax should have uncovered that Mrs A was a victim of a 
scam. He also said that as Mrs As payments initially went to a legitimate cryptocurrency 
trading platform, he didnt think Halifax would have been successful if it had tried to recover 
the funds when Mrs A contacted it about the scam. 
Mrs A didnt agree. She acknowledged that some of the payments were not high enough in 
value to have caused Halifax any concern. But she thought the frequency of the transactions 
thereafter should have raised concerns. And she said that if Halifax had asked more 
contextualised questions in relation to the payments and queried other payments, it would 
have uncovered the scam. The investigator considered the points raised but he felt Halifax 
had asked sufficient questions based on the answers Mrs A gave, so it wasnt able to stop 
payments she had authorised. 
Mrs A asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so the case has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator for largely the 
same reasons. I appreciate that Mrs A will be disappointed as there is no dispute that she 
has been the victim of targeted scam. But I can only hold Halifax responsible if I thought it 
had done something wrong or treated Mrs A unfairly. And I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mrs A authorised the payments in question. She sent several faster 
payments totalling £21,990.84 to an account she held elsewhere that subsequently went to a 
scammer (although Mrs A did receive payments totalling £546 so her loss is £21,444.84).
 
While I accept that Mrs A didnt intend for her money to go to a fraudster, under the    
Payment Service Regulations 2017, Mrs A is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance 
as the payments were authorised by her. This remains the position unless there is sufficient 
evidence that Halifax should fairly and reasonably have done more to protect her. 
To explain, taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time these payments were 
made, I think Halifax ought, fairly and reasonably, to have been on the lookout for out of 
character and unusual transactions and other indications that its customer might be at risk of 
financial harm from fraud. With that in mind, Ive considered whether Halifax should have 
considered the payments Mrs A made as being so unusual or uncharacteristic that it ought 
to have given Halifax sufficient grounds for suspecting fraud.
Mrs A has accepted that the initial payments she made were low value and wouldnt have 
raised any specific concerns with Halifax. With regards to the remaining payments, its not in 
dispute that some of the payments were unusual given they did trigger Halifaxs fraud 
prevention systems, and this led to Halifax speaking to Mrs A on two occasions. So, Ive 
considered whether Halifax went far enough in all the circumstances with its interventions.
 
Mrs A says that Halifax didnt ask enough contextualised questions and didnt provide 
appropriate scam warnings. So, Ive looked at the transcripts of the calls Halifax had with 
Mrs A. And I note that in the second call Mrs A confirms the payment was being made to her 
own cryptocurrency account, that no one had helped or advised her to make the payment, 
and that she is making the payment entirely under her own instruction. Mrs A also said she 
and her husband had invested in this kind of cryptocurrency investment before. Ive also 
seen that Halifax provided Mrs A with an investment scam warning which Mrs A 
acknowledged.
Ive thought about this carefully. And I acknowledge that Halifax didnt question every 
payment made  in particular, Mrs A mentions the payment of £5,131 which was authorised 
by her in between the two payments Halifax did question. And I accept that Halifax could 
have asked more questions in the first call. But all these payments were made on the same 
day, so I think its most likely Mrs A would have answered in the same way as mentioned 
above had more questions been asked in the first call and if Halifax had contacted her about 
the £5,131 payment. 
I acknowledge that Halifax provided an investment scam warning rather than a tailored 
warning for the type of scam Mrs A was involved in. But Mrs A didnt explain that she was making the payment because of an employment opportunity  she indicated she was 
investing her money. Given the answers Mrs A gave, Im not persuaded Halifax acted 
unfairly in providing an investment scam warning. 
Even if Halifax had gone further with its intervention, I find it unlikely that Mrs A would have 
been upfront about what she was doing. So, overall, Im not persuaded - even if Mrs A was 
asked more questions about any of the payments she authorised, that the outcome would 
have been any different. As a result, I dont find Halifax can fairly be held liable for her loss.
Ive considered whether Halifax did enough to try and recover the funds after the fraud was 
reported. However, I dont think it would have likely had any success in doing so. Mrs As 
payments were faster payments sent to an account in her own name and were subsequently 
sent quickly onto the scammer. Therefore, Im not persuaded Halifax could have reasonably 
done anything to recover Mrs As payments in these circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman