DRN-3952961
The complaint
Mr H via his representative has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has 
refused to refund his money he lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
Mr H watched a YouTube video by a famous influencer who was promoting a Bitcoin trading 
company that I will call B. From what I can see he made a transfer of over £12,000 in 
December 2017 from his current account to buy cryptocurrency from Coinbase that Mr H 
says was then forwarded onto B.
Mr H says that he tried to withdraw his funds but found out that Bs website was no longer 
operational.
Some years later Mr H raised a complaint with RBS as he believed that RBS should have 
stopped him from making the payment in question.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and they decided that given the timescales 
involved we would not be able to tell if RBS contacted Mr H in relation to the transfer and in 
any event she could not be sure if any intervention would likely have changed Mr Hs 
decision to carry out the transactions in question. 
Mr H did not agree with this and therefore his complaint was passed to me to issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has accepted he authorised the payment he made, so the starting point here is that Mr 
H is responsible for making the payment. However, banks and other Payment Services 
Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud 
and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
Given the size of the payment RBS should have contacted Mr H to discuss the payment but 
as this transfer happened in 2017 and RBS does not have records from this point we simply 
do not know if an intervention happened or what was said if one did. 
What I do know is that scams that involved cryptocurrency were not as well-known at this 
point. So had RBS asked what Mr H was intending to do and he told them he was 
purchasing cryptocurrency in order to send it to an investment, I dont think this in itself 
would have caused RBS to have become aware that Mr H was likely being scammed. 
Especially as details about B even now are hard to find. 
There was a Ponzi scheme with a very similar name who at the time were acting as a 
platform where people could loan crypto currency to other people in return for earning 
interest and this website was shut down around the time indicated by Mr H. But as there 
were legitimate exchanges that were doing the same thing at the time, Mr H describing what 
he was about the do would not necessarily have alerted RBS that Mr H was being scammed.
All that RBS could have done was to give a generic warning about the risk of scams in 
general, such as asking Mr H to research B and saying that cryptocurrency was a risky 
investment. Also given that cryptocurrency was unregulated, RBS could not ask Mr H to 
ensure the companies he was dealing with were regulated by the FCA either.  I cant see 
any credible warnings online from the time this occurred about B either, though this is 
difficult to establish given the timescales involved. So, I dont think RBS directing Mr H to 
research B would have changed anything at the time. 
So overall, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont know if RBS intervened at the time and in 
any event, I am not persuaded intervention from RBS wouldve made a difference and 
prevented Mr Hs loss in the particular circumstances of this case.
In relation to whether RBS could recover the funds this occurred prior to the Contingency 
Reimbursement Model starting and in any event the funds were initially transferred to a 
Coinbase account in Mr Hs name. So, I dont think that RBS could have recovered the 
funds. 
Overall, having considered everything, I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons given 
above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman