DRN-3337739
The complaint
Mrs M complains that AIG Life Limited (AIG) unfairly declined a claim on her and her late 
husbands life assurance policy. Mrs M wants AIG to pay the claim and the legal fees shes 
incurred pursuing this matter. 
Mrs M is being represented by a firm of solicitors. But for ease, Ill refer to Mrs M throughout 
this decision. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only refer to some key 
events here.
On 25 February 2010 Mr and Mrs M took out a life assurance policy with an insurer that was 
later taken over by AIG. The couple were both sent separate copies of their application 
responses to check. Cover started on 6 March 2010 and ran for ten years. 
Mr M sadly died in December 2019. Mrs M claimed on the policy. The sum assured at that 
time was just over £116,000.
AIG declined the claim because it said Mr M hadnt disclosed that he was awaiting referral to 
a specialist in relation to memory problems when Mr and Mrs M applied for the policy. AIG 
said it wouldnt have offered cover to Mr M based on the outcome of those investigations, 
which showed Mr M had probable early dementia. It cancelled the policy and refunded the 
premiums. 
Mrs M asked AIG to reconsider its decision. She said Mr M had mentioned to the GP that he 
forgot names but was told this was nothing to worry about. She said there were no signs of 
the dementia until late 2010. 
AIG remained of the view Mr M hadnt disclosed his full medical history on the 2010 
application and so it didnt change its position. AIG mentioned evidence to show a referral 
had been made by Mr Ms GP in January 2010 in relation to Mr Ms memory problems  and 
that hed also spoken to his GP about this in October and November 2009.
Mrs M complained to AIG. She said neither she nor Mr M knew of the referral made in 
January 2010 as it wasnt mentioned during the GP consultation and they didnt receive any 
written notification of it. Mrs M said both the referral letter and the appointment letter - dated 
22 February 2010 - were sent to a previous address. She said because of this, Mr M only 
received the appointment letter a week before the appointment (which was arranged for 16 
March 2010). Mrs M said Mr M underwent several assessments and diagnostic tests 
between March and May 2010, which all came back as normal, before being diagnosed with 
early onset dementia in February 2011. 
So, based on this, Mrs M said that when they applied for the policy on 25 February 2010, 
they were unaware of the referral or the appointment with the consultant. And so, she said 
they didnt make a mistake on the application. She also questioned how postponing the 
application to await the outcome of the investigations wouldve resulted in cover being 
declined  given Mr M wasnt diagnosed with dementia until February 2011.
AIG didnt uphold the complaint and so Mrs M referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. After looking into it, our investigator thought AIG had acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances.
Mrs M didnt agree and so her complaint has come to me to consider. She said the GP 
appointment on 27 January 2010 was for a persistent sore throat, and that Mr Ms memory 
problems were put down to the stress of moving back to the UK from Spain. Mrs M said 
when the application was completed on 25 February 2010, Mr M was unaware of a referral 
about his memory problems. She said he answered the questions correctly and acted with 
reasonable care. Mrs M said even if AIG had acted differently had it known about Mr Ms 
memory loss, she said any investigations and possible cause for this werent known to Mr M 
until after he completed the application. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to offer my condolences to Mrs M and to acknowledge that shes brought this 
complaint under very difficult and upsetting circumstances. But while I dont want to add to 
her distress, Im not upholding the complaint for similar reasons to that of our investigator. I 
realise this will be a very great disappointment to Mrs M, but Ill explain my reasons.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
In considering this complaint, Ive taken account of the relevant rules and regulations  the 
main one here being the Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly  ABI Code of 
Practice Managing Claims For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income 
Protection Insurance Products September 2019 (ABI 2019). This follows the Financial 
Ombudsmans long-standing approach to complaints like this. 
Ill need to consider whether Mr M acted honestly and reasonably in all the circumstances 
when answering the application questions. And whether he took reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation and if not, whether that misrepresentation was innocent, careless, 
or reckless or deliberate. Ill then need to consider whether AIG has applied the correct 
remedy for that misrepresentation, which are set out in the ABI 2019.                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Did Mr M act honestly and reasonably when answering the application and take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation? 
Mr Ms policy application, which he completed on 25 February 2010, asked the following 
questions:Have you received or been advised to have any medical investigations, scans or 
blood tests in the last 5 years?
Have you been referred to, or been to see any medical practitioner other than your 
GP in the last 5 years
Are you under routine medical review or awaiting consultation with a specialist for 
any medical condition?
Are you currently experiencing any symptoms for which you intend to seek medical 
advice?
Mr M answered No to all the above. 
Im satisfied these questions made clear to Mr M what information was relevant to AIG. And 
while I acknowledge Mrs M says Mr M did fully disclose his relevant medical history as he 
understood it at the time, I dont agree. Ill explain why. 
AIG thinks Mr M shouldve answered yes to these questions because he knew about his 
memory problems and about a referral that was made on 28 January 2010 to a specialist. 
Mrs M says Mr M knew nothing about the referral when he applied for the policy on 
25 February 2010. She says this wasnt mentioned at the GP consultation on 27 January 
2010, nor did they receive a copy of the referral letter dated 28 January 2010. And the 
appointment letter dated 22 February 2010 wasnt received until early March 2010 because 
it was sent to the wrong address. 
I dont doubt Mrs Ms testimony about not receiving the 28 January 2010 referral letter or that 
the 22 February 2010 appointment letter was received after cover was put in place. Its not 
always routine practice for GPs to send a copy of a referral letter to a patient and its evident 
the appointment letter was sent to a previous address. 
So, my focus is on the 27 January 2010 GP consultation, what it was for, and what 
Mr M understood to be the outcome in respect of the referral. Sadly, Mr M isnt around to 
ask, and we dont know why he answered the questions on the application as he did. So, Ive 
taken account of Mrs Ms testimony  as she attended the 27 January 2010 consultation with 
her husband  and the supporting medical evidence.
Mrs M said that the GP made no mention of further investigations into Mr Ms memory 
problems, or a referral to a specialist at the consultation on 27 January 2010. 
The entry in Mr Ms medical records for 27 January 2010 says:
memory disturbance. Referral to Psychogeriatrician Dr . he forgets conversations 
with people. he forgets things that has increased in frequency since they moved back 
from Spain.
The referral letter dated 28 January 2010 to the Psychogeriatrician says:
I would be grateful if you would see this 64 year old gentleman who came to the 
surgery on 15 November complaining of being very forgetful, his wife attended also 
and confirmed this  [Mr M] came back to the surgery yesterday 27.1.2010 explaining 
that his memory problem is worsening, he forgets conversations with people and this 
has been increasing over the last 2 months  I can also see from Mr Ms medical records that he spoke to his GP about his memory 
problems on 22 October 2009. During this consultation, reference is made to Mr Ms memory 
not being good for the last six months. Examples were given of him forgetting conversations 
and not knowing who close family members were. Adjustments were made to Mr Ms 
medication, and at the November 2009 consultation, he felt his memory had improved, but 
that he would come back to the GP if symptoms reoccurred. 
Ive also looked at the letter from Dr B  who met with Mr M on behalf of the 
Psychogeriatrician consultant on 16 March 2010. Its noted that Mr M had suffered from 
memory problems for the last 12 months. And several examples are given on how this 
impacts his day to day life. The letter concluded by saying that:
  our impression would be one of mild cognitive impairment or probable early 
dementia.
I dont know for certain exactly what Mr and Mrs M were told at the GP appointment on 
27 January 2010 about the referral for Mr Ms memory problems. But having carefully 
considered the available evidence and the surrounding circumstances, I think, on balance, 
its more likely than not Mr M wouldve known further investigations were needed. I say this 
because Mr M was clearly worried enough about his memory problems to arrange a GP 
appointment to discuss his concerns. Mrs M has suggested this appointment was in relation 
to a persistent sore throat and that Mr Ms memory problems were put down to stress. But I 
cant see any reference to that in the medical notes Ive seen from 27 January 2010.
Mr M had also seen his GP on two previous occasions where his memory problems and 
possible causes had been discussed, and hed been advised to see his GP again if the 
symptoms reoccurred. And so, I think this was a serious concern for Mr M, and the 
reoccurrence of the symptoms, and reference to these lasting for more than six months, 
suggests to me it was likely further investigations into the cause wouldve been discussed 
during the 27 January 2010 GP consultation. This is particularly likely given the situation was 
worsening and the GP was unable to offer a diagnosis or medication. So, I must conclude it 
was unlikely Mr M left the 27 January 2010 consultation thinking all was well and so 
wouldve known further investigations into the cause of his memory problems were needed.  
Also, theres nothing in the referral letter or the letter from Dr B to suggest Mr and Mrs M 
didnt know a referral was being made  or that further investigations were unnecessary. In 
fact, a detailed account of their concerns is given, with reference to the memory problems 
being noticeable over the last 12 months. 
Taking all this into account, I do believe its likely Mr M knew about his memory problems 
and the referral to the specialist when he completed the application for life cover on 
25 February 2010. And so, I dont think he took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. 
Did the misrepresentation make a difference?
AIG has provided evidence to show that if Mr M had correctly and fully answered the 
questions set out above, it wouldve deferred cover pending the results of the investigations 
into his memory problems, and until a cause could be established. This is common industry 
practice when medical investigations are ongoing at the time of application. AIG has said 
that once the diagnosis of probable early dementia was made on 16 March 2010, cover for 
Mr M wouldve been declined. The evidence Ive seen from AIG supports this position. And 
so, I think Mr Ms misrepresentation made a difference to the underwriting outcome.Under the ABI 2019, a misrepresentation can be categorised as innocent, careless, or 
reckless or deliberate. Given the clear questions on the application and because Mr Ms 
memory problems were ongoing for some time, and hed seen his GP about it a month 
before completing the application, I dont consider the misrepresentation to be innocent.  
AIG has categorised the misrepresentation as deliberate, and so it had the option of 
cancelling the policy and keeping the premiums. But AIG has returned the premiums to 
Mrs M, and so even if I were to conclude the misrepresentation was careless, the outcome 
would be the same, and doesnt change the fact AIG wouldnt have offered cover to Mr M 
had it known about the referral for memory loss. And so, I cant say AIG has treated Mrs M 
unfairly. 
Taking everything into consideration, Im not asking AIG to do anything further here, though I 
realise this isnt the answer Mrs M hoped for.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman