DRN-3310370
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the service she received from Amtrust Europe Limited in relation to 
a claim for legal expenses insurance. 
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed and lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill 
only provide a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mrs W has the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses which is provided by Amtrust. 
In January 2020 she made a claim on her policy. The claim form records that she wanted to 
retain land that had been used as a front garden for 50 years. And that she wanted privacy 
and the right to enjoy her own garden without interference from a window on a neighbours 
extension. It also states she wanted to both defend a claim against her and to pursue her 
neighbours. 
Amtrust initially explained that there was only cover to pursue action, not for defence. They 
asked for some additional information from Mrs W and then on 30 January 2020 asked one 
of their panel solicitors M to assess the claim. 
In April 2020 M reported that Mrs W potentially had a valid claim for trespass in relation to 
the neighbours window. I can see that M asked Mrs W for further information and evidence 
and continued their work. Then in August 2020 M discovered that they had a conflict of 
interests which meant they could no longer represent Mrs W. This was communicated to 
Amtrust who promptly arranged for another firm T to take over. 
T conducted a number of assessments once they had the required information. The last of 
which was detailed in a letter dated 18 September 2020. This concluded that there was no 
cover for adverse possession in relation to the land at the front of Mrs Ws house. And that a 
claim in relation to the new window wasnt proportionate to pursue. 
Mrs W complained to Amtrust. She was unhappy it had taken so long for her to find out that 
part of her claim wasnt covered and with the decision that it wasnt proportionate to pursue a 
claim about the window. 
Amtrust considered the complaint but didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They said it 
was right for them to rely on legal assessments of the claim and they didnt believe they 
were responsible for meaningful delays. 
Mrs W referred her complaint to our service. She says the delays contributed to a worsening 
situation between her and her neighbours and detailed the significant impact this has had on 
her. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary he thought Amtrust had acted fairly, werent responsible for the service provided 
by M or T and he didnt think their claims decision was unreasonable. Mrs W disagrees and 
has asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mrs W, so Ill explain why. 
The Property Protection section of Mrs Ws policy says:
What is covered?
Costs to pursue a Legal Action for:-
a) Nuisance or trespass against the person or organisation infringing Your legal rights in 
relation to Your main home
b) Damages against a person or organisation that causes physical damage to your 
main home. The amount in dispute must be more than £250 and the damage must 
have been caused after you first purchased this insurance. 
What is not covered?
Claims
b)For adverse possession.
Further to this under General Exclusions there is a term which says:
There is no cover whereAn estimate of Advisers Costs of acting for You is more than the 
amount in dispute.
There is also a further term which requires any claim to have reasonable prospects of 
success. Terms such as these are common to this type of insurance and I dont think these 
terms are inherently unfair. Amtrust are setting out the basis of the cover available for 
property protection and no policy will cover every eventuality. Its also fair that only 
proportionate claims are covered. A privately paying client wouldnt generally fund legal 
action that would cost more than they stood to gain if successful, so I dont think an insurer 
should have to either. 
Amtrust themselves arent legal experts, they are an insurer. So, I think its fair and 
reasonable that they rely on suitably qualified legal advice when making decisions about a 
claim. Unless that advice is so obviously wrong that a layperson could be expected to 
identify this. 
Part of Mrs Ws complaint is that she thinks Amtrust ought to have identified themselves that 
there was no cover for the adverse possession part of her claim. She feels the information 
shed initially provided made this clear enough that a legal assessment wasnt required. Ive 
considered this but I dont agree.
The relevant industry guidance requires insurers to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of their customer. It also requires insurers to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. With that in mind there were some complex issues at hand. There 
was potential for a claim and counterclaim, a claim for trespass or nuisance and a dispute 
over the ownership of land.I accept that Mrs Ws claim form set out that the land in question had been used by the 
occupiers of her house for 50 years  this doesnt imply she claimed to own it. But I still think 
Amtrust treated Mrs W fairly by instructing a panel solicitor. This wasnt a straightforward 
claim which I think could be safely declined based on policy terms without seeking expert 
legal advice. I think it required a legal professional to assess the claim being made as they 
would be best placed to assess whether there was any route Mrs W could pursue within her 
policy coverage. Had Amtrust not passed this on, they would have risked treating Mrs W 
unfairly. 
Whilst Amtrust are the underwriter of the policy and are therefore ultimately responsible for 
any claims decision  they arent responsible for the day to day management of the 
underlying legal action. As such I cant hold Amtrust responsible for the service provided by 
either M or T. I also cant comment on the actions of M or T as they are solicitors. They will 
have their own regulator and ombudsman scheme should Mrs W remain unhappy with their 
actions. 
In that context, I dont think Amtrust are responsible for the extended period of time it took for 
her to get an answer on her claim. I can see that Amtrust appropriately sought updates from 
M and they acted quickly to appoint T once the conflict had come to light. I dont think 
Amtrust are responsible for anything that resulted in unreasonable delays in the progression 
of the claim. 
Ts assessment of Mrs Ws claim dated 18 September 2020 said:
I would not consider this claim to be proportionate to pursue because the legal costs 
associated with pursuit of the claim would in my view outweigh any compensation you might 
recover. In light of the foregoing, I am of the view that your claim does not have reasonable 
prospects of success i.e. 51% and over. 
The legal opinion is logical and sets out its authors reasons for reaching this conclusion. I 
dont consider it to be obviously wrong. And whilst not specifically commented on in the letter 
of 18 September 2020, I can see that consideration was given to the impact of being 
overlooked on Mrs W and the loss of privacy. T also felt it was unlikely that a court would 
instruct that the window be removed and that if successful, damages would be the likely 
remedy. The author of the opinion was a paralegal, but Im satisfied by the evidence 
provided that they were working under the supervision of an associate from the firm which I 
consider to be fair. 
Overall, I think Amtrust relying on the legal opinion to decline the claim on the grounds of 
proportionality and a lack of prospects was fair. As such, I cant fairly ask them to do more 
on this point. 
For completeness I also agree that the policy makes clear there is no cover for adverse 
possession. Something I believe Mrs W now accepts. So I also think the claim decision on 
that part of the claim was both within the policy terms and fair. 
Im sorry to hear of the events surrounding this claim and the clear impact it is having on 
Mrs W and her health. Any potential legal dispute is always going to be a difficult time, and 
this is especially the case when it involves a home. But despite my natural sympathy, I dont 
think Amtrust have treated Mrs W unfairly and so Im not going to tell them to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman