DRN-1955382
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc (TFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint TFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then TFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
I dont think any scratch or mark would be considered to be of acceptable standard on a 
brand-new car. Mr M had only had the car for a matter of hours before he complained and I 
think, on balance, its more likely that the mark or scratch happened before he received the 
vehicle that during his very short ride home in it.
So, as I think the vehicle was marked before he received it and I think it was of 
unsatisfactory quality, I think TFS should do something to put things right.
The relevant legislation says that goods should not be considered to be of an unsatisfactory 
quality where the consumer examines them before the contract is made and where that 
examination ought to reveal the fault. Here, TFS say that Mr M ought to have noticed the 
scratch, if it was there, before he left the salesroom. Im not persuaded thats the case. I say 
that because, whilst its clear both parties agree there is a mark on the car, TFS have 
explained that the dealership had to move the vehicle several times into different lighting 
before they could see the mark as it is very slight.
Given the very short time frame in which Mr M complained about the problem he may have 
been within his rights to ask to reject the vehicle. But, I dont think thats what he asked for, 
and anyway, Im persuaded that a more proportionate response would be for the business to 
repair the mark.
Putting things right
TFS should arrange to have the car repaired.
Mr M has clearly been inconvenienced by this issue. Hes had to take the car back to the 
dealership and hes had to complain and to escalate his complaint when I think it could have 
been resolved earlier. In those circumstances I think TFS should provide some 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced, and I think £150 is 
reasonable here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Toyota Financial Services 
(UK) Plc to:
repair the car;
pay Mr M £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced less anything they may have already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman