DRN-4324112
The complaint
Miss W is complaining about Moneybarn No. 1 Limited. She says they shouldnt have lent to 
her because the repayments werent affordable. Miss Ws complaint has been brought to us 
by a representative but for ease Ive written as if weve dealt directly with her.
What happened
In August 2019, Miss W took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to finance 
the purchase of a car. She paid a deposit of £400 and borrowed £6,750  the cash price of 
the vehicle was £7,150. The agreement required Miss W to make 59 monthly repayments of 
£265.13. Miss W struggled to make her repayments almost from the start of the agreement 
and her statement shows a number of returned direct debits and missed payments.
Miss W complained to Moneybarn in February 2023, saying Moneybarn had failed to 
conduct appropriate affordability checks before lending to her. 
In response, Moneybarn said theyd checked Miss Ws income to payslips and verified this 
was £1,386 per month. They said they estimated her non-discretionary expenditure at £701 
per month using data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) and added £25 per month 
in credit commitments and a buffer of £192 per month to arrive at a figure for net disposable 
income of £467. This was enough to determine that the repayments of £265 were affordable. 
They also said theyd checked her credit file and as well as looking at Miss Ws repayment 
history they used this to assess her monthly borrowing commitments.
Moneybarn said they could see Miss Ws borrowing levels were moderate and there were no 
reported missed payments on her credit file. They said her most recent default was four 
months prior to her application and they could see she was making repayments towards the 
amounts owed. They also said theyd seen a County Court Judgment (CCJ) had been 
entered four months before Miss Ws application, and that Miss W had an Individual 
Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) at the time but the IVA practitioner confirmed they were happy 
for Miss W to proceed with the finance agreement.
Miss W brought her complaint to our service, adding that she was in a lot of debt at the time 
of the loan and already experiencing financial difficulties which have worsened since 
because of various changes in circumstances.
One of our investigators looked into the matter but didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. He said 
he wasnt satisfied Moneybarn had completed proportionate checks but he felt the 
agreement was likely affordable for Miss W and Moneybarn could have fairly decided to lend 
to her.
Miss W rejected our investigators view. She said her monthly outgoings were higher than 
our investigator had assessed  she said her rent was £565, telecommunications bills were 
around £140, insurance was around £85, existing hire purchase agreement was £265, other 
bills were around £50, and her groceries and petrol came to around £220 per month. Miss W 
said against monthly income of £1,386 this level of expenditure meant monthly repayments 
of £265 werent affordable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and recognising itll be disappointing for Miss W, Im not upholding her 
complaint. My reasons are broadly the same as our investigators  Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Moneybarn carry out proportionate checks?
Moneybarn said theyd looked at Miss Ws credit file which showed that her existing 
borrowing levels were moderate and there were no recent missed payments. They said the 
credit file showed Miss W had defaulted on some borrowing, the most recent of these was 
four months prior to her application, and Miss W also had a CCJ entered four months before 
the agreement and had an IVA in place. 
Moneybarn also said they carried out an income and expenditure assessment. They verified 
Miss Ws monthly net income at £1,386 using Miss Ws payslips, and they estimated her 
non-discretionary expenditure at around £700 using ONS data. They added on £25 for her 
borrowing commitments and around £192 as a buffer and calculated that Miss W had 
monthly disposable income of around £467  which was more than enough for monthly loan 
repayments of £265. Its not clear why Moneybarn only included £25 for borrowing 
commitments when Miss W had an existing hire purchase agreement  but its possible that 
it wasnt included in the credit report they obtained. Different credit providers report to 
different credit reference agencies (CRA) so the CRAs reports can differ. 
CONC allows firms to use statistical data in their affordability assessments unless they have 
reason to suspect that a customers non-discretionary expenditure is significantly higher than 
that described in the data. In this case, Miss Ws recent defaults, CCJ and IVA suggested 
that Miss W might be in financial difficulties  and therefore that her non-discretionary 
expenditure might be higher than described in the data. In addition, the loan was for a period 
of nearly five years, and Miss W had a relatively low income. So Im not satisfied it was 
proportionate for Moneybarn to rely on the statistical data. I think they should have done 
more.
If Moneybarn had carried out proportionate checks, what would they have found?
A proportionate check would have involved Moneybarn finding out more about Miss Ws 
expenditure to determine whether shed be able to make the repayments in a sustainable 
way. 
Ive looked at the summary of expenditure Miss W sent us and compared this to statements 
for Miss Ws bank accounts for the three months around the time of her application to 
Moneybarn. Im not saying Moneybarn needed to obtain bank statements as part of their 
lending checks. But in the absence of other information, bank statements provide a good 
indication of Miss Ws financial circumstances at the time the lending decision was made.Having done so, I think Miss W has slightly overstated the monthly repayments on her 
existing hire purchase agreement  which were around £230 per month on average. And I 
think shes understated her expenditure on groceries and petrol  this looks to have been 
around £250 each month. 
So I think Miss Ws non-discretionary expenditure was around £1,320 per month before 
entering into the agreement with Moneybarn. At first glance, that would suggest the loan was 
unaffordable for Miss W  it would leave her with only around £70 from which to make the 
payments of £265. 
I then looked more closely at Miss Ws income  it appears at the time she was receiving a 
contribution from her partner towards rent and bills of around £390 per month. I say this 
because there was a significant receipt from her partner at around the same time as the rent 
was paid each month. Both this and Miss Ws income from employment were variable so Ive 
looked at her average monthly income across June, July and August 2019. Miss Ws 
average total income from employment and her partners contributions was around £1,740.  
Deducting expenses of £1,320 from this figure left Miss W with around £420 disposable 
income from which to cover the repayments of £265 per month  so with £155 per month 
leftover. On that basis Im satisfied that if Moneybarn had done proportionate checks they 
could have fairly decided to lend to Miss W.
Im aware Miss Ws been through a number of changes of circumstances which have 
affected both her financial position and her mental health and appreciate how difficult this 
must have been. But I cant say Moneybarn should have anticipated this when lending to her 
and I dont think theyve treated her unfairly since. Id remind Moneybarn of their ongoing 
responsibility to treat Miss W with forbearance and due consideration in relation to the 
outstanding amounts under the agreement. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint about Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman