DRN-4273095
The complaint
Miss M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money wont refund money she 
lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
In mid-2021, Miss M became involved in what she believes to be an investment scam. I 
understand it was a pyramid scheme. Each participant paid into the scheme and their 
money, as well as everyone elses, was supposed to go to the person chosen to receive a 
pay-out. In theory, every participant receives far more than their initial investment, but the 
scheme relies on continually recruiting new participants. Miss M, believing that this was a 
way in which she could make some extra money, made a total of six payments to the 
scheme totalling £7,000.
It appears that Miss M was told that shed need to wait longer than expected for her turn to 
receive a pay-out due to the pandemic, but that pay-out never materialised.
In 2022, Miss M reported the matter to Virgin but it said that it wasnt responsible for her 
loss. It did, however, acknowledge that it had provided poor service to Miss M and paid her 
£150 compensation. 
The matter was referred to our service, but one of our Investigators didnt uphold the 
complaint. They didnt think that Virgin could have reasonably suspected that the payments 
were being made as a result of fraud. 
Miss M disagreed. She thought that Virgin hadnt handled the matter correctly and 
questioned what action the banks which received her money had taken.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about whats happened to Miss M. Its clear that shes been through a 
difficult time and I understand that the loss of this money has had a significant impact on her. 
But my role is to consider whether Virgin can be held responsible for her loss. The starting 
point in law is that Miss M is responsible for payments shes authorised herself. And theres 
no dispute about whether she made the payments here. 
Ive also thought about whether, taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Virgin 
ought to have recognised that Miss M might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud 
when making the payments and taken some steps to warn her before allowing the payments 
to debit her account.
Having done so, Im afraid that I dont think there was any reason for Virgin to be concerned 
here. The payments were not of an insignificant value, but the highest value payment was 
£2,000 which I dont think alone was enough to cause Virgin much concern. I have noted 
that there were three payments made on the same day, but to two different payees and, 
even after the payments were made, Miss Ms account wasnt drained and still held a 
healthy balance. I cant see that Virgin would have been able to identify any concerning 
pattern of activity. So, I dont think it made a mistake by not questioning the payments before 
they debited Miss Ms account. 
Ive considered Virgins attempts to recover Miss Ms funds. It appears that one of the 
payments related to the scam was not originally included as part of the claim, but Ive seen 
evidence from all of the firms which received Miss Ms money that shows it was removed 
before she reported the fraud. So, even if Virgin had contacted all of the firms that received 
money at the time, it wouldnt have made any difference to whether the money could be 
recovered. 
Finally, in relation to the service provided, I can see that Miss M spoke to Virgin on many 
occasions. It acknowledges that she often had to wait for long periods to speak to it and that 
its investigation took longer than it should have done. And, as already mentioned, Virgin 
failed to take note of one of the transactions when the claim was first raised. It has already 
paid Miss M £150 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset caused by this. I have to 
take into account that the majority of the distress caused to Miss M has been due to the fact 
that shes lost a significant amount of money. I dont think Virgin have made a mistake by 
declining to reimburse her losses, so I think the £150 compensation already paid fairly 
reflects any trouble and upset Virgin has caused. 
The actions of the firms which received Miss Ms money will be considered as separate 
complaints. I cant comment on those issues here. 
I know this will be extremely disappointing for Miss M, but I dont find Virgin to be responsible 
for her loss and I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman