DRN-3644513
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs S complained, through their representative, that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-
sold them a Barclays Managed Growth Fund. They believed the amount invested 
represented too high a proportion of their capital and the investment risk was too high for 
them. 
To keep things simpler, I referred in my decision only to Mr P and Mrs S.
What happened
In February 1999, Mr P and Mrs S were advised to invest £6,000 each in a Barclays 
Managed Growth Fund  which they did. They both cashed in their investment in January 
2002 and got back £5,601.98 each  making a joint loss of around £796.
Barclays didnt uphold their complaint. It said it was satisfied that a medium risk investment 
was suitable for Mr P and Mrs S and left them with sufficient funds after investing as they 
were able to rebuild their savings quickly out of surplus cash each month. It did however 
pay £100 into Mr P and Mrs Ss joint current account to say sorry for the delay in 
responding to the complaint.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint and he didnt think that Barclays had dealt 
with it fairly. In summary, he said that as Mr P and Mrs S were inexperienced investors, the 
level of risk was too high and he didnt think they were in a position to tolerate the volatility 
and risk presented by the equity backed funds they were invested in. 
So he felt the recommendation had been unsuitable and that Barclays should take steps to 
put things right.
Barclays didnt agree with the investigator. It mainly said the fact that Mr P and Mrs S had 
never invested before didnt mean that a medium risk fund wasnt suitable for them when 
they were in such a strong financial situation and able to accept the risk  which they had 
made an informed decision to do at the time. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr P and Mrs S feel that they were advised to invest too much of their money in a fund that 
was too risky for them. So I've thought carefully about both parts of their complaint. 
Were Mr P and Mrs S advised to invest too much of their money?
Ive thought carefully about Mr P and Mrs Ss financial situation at the time. They were in 
secure and well paid employment with good career prospects. They had no dependants. 
I think its fair to say their circumstances at the time would have looked comfortable. They 
both earned around £2,800 per month which left them overall with a monthly surplus of 
around £3,664 after paying their usual monthly expenses. Barclays fact find recorded that 
they had around £15,000 in cash savings. 
It was reasonable to think that they would likely be working, and progressing in their 
careers, for at least the next twenty years. This meant their future earning potential looked 
good.
I think Barclays was right to mention that potentially having just £3,000 left in their cash 
savings didnt give Mr P and Mrs S much flexibility if they had any significant emergency 
spending to cover or an unforeseen change in circumstances. But, to my mind, this isnt 
enough of a concern to make me think £12,000 was an unsuitable amount for Mr P and 
Mrs S to invest. Ive seen bank statements that show they also had around £7,000 in a 
current account by the end of February 1999. They didnt appear to have any other 
immediate need for the money. The five year investment timescale wasnt out of step with 
their other long term plans for home ownership. And, as Barclays pointed out, it looked like 
they should be able to rebuild their cash savings within a relatively short period  which 
seems to be what happened. They had just over £18,000 cash savings by December 1999. 
So this makes no difference to the outcome.  
On balance, taking into account their financial position when they decided to make this 
investment, I cant fairly say the amount Barclays advised Mr P and Mrs S to invest is a 
reason for me to uphold their complaint.
Was the medium risk fund too risky for Mr P and Mrs S as first-time investors?
I agree that a clients experience of managing money is something that the adviser should 
consider when advising on investments. But it is only one consideration among many. 
The fact alone that someone is a first-time investor doesnt automatically mean that they 
should only ever be advised to invest in low risk or no risk investments. That could 
unfairly deprive a person of investment potential and the opportunity to choose to risk more 
for the chance of a higher gain.   
Barclays has provided copies of some of the original paperwork. It looks like Mr P and 
Mrs S identified themselves as having a medium risk appetite and their shared objective 
was capital growth.
Given this objective, I think it was reasonable to recommend a risk-based investment to 
Mr P and Mrs S.
There is limited evidence to show how Barclays established that Mr P and Mrs S wanted to 
take a medium risk approach. There is mention of discussion about stock market 
investments in the recommendations letters Barclays sent to Mr P and Mrs S. 
But, although there is no way of knowing exactly what Mr P and Mrs S understood about the 
risk, it looks to me like they understood risk and they were prepared to take a medium risk to 
achieve their objective of capital growth. 
I think Mr P and Mrs S couldve seen on the paperwork they signed that there were 
different risk options ranging from Risk Averse through Low Risk and Medium Risk to 
High Risk. And I think its likely that there was discussion with the advisor about the risks of taking 
money out of cash savings and investing it instead  and that Mr P and Mrs S would have 
understood that the higher the risk, the greater the potential scope for reward. And that 
they could choose how much risk they wanted to take. 
I have no good reason to think that the agreed attitude to risk reflected in the paperwork 
I've seen didnt accurately record Mr P and Mrs Ss wishes to invest in a medium risk fund 
at the time.    
To sum up, I think that Mr P and Mrs S understood and accepted the risk of the fund that 
Barclays advised them to invest in. If they hadnt understood the risk or they werent 
prepared to take that sort of risk, they wouldve been aware that there were other safer 
options for their savings. Taking everything into account, I think Mr P and Mrs S knew they 
were signing up to a level of risk for this particular investment in order to obtain the capital 
growth they hoped for.  
This leads me to conclude that I havent seen enough to make me think that the Barclays 
Managed Growth Fund was too risky for Mr P and Mrs S or otherwise unsuitable for 
them. 
I appreciate that what I've said here will come as a disappointment to Mr P and Mrs S but 
I hope that setting things out as Ive done helps explain why I've come to this overall 
conclusion.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr P and Mrs S have responded to say that, at the time, they were trying to save every 
penny and this investment wasnt a gamble they would have taken had they been made 
aware of the risks. They said the picture they were painted was very rosy with great 
predictions. I have heard nothing further Barclays. The deadline for responses has now 
passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints on our website and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Mr P and Mrs S for responding to my provisional decision. I appreciate that Mr P and 
Mrs S feel strongly about what happened and they hold a different view to me. I would like 
to assure them that Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said, including 
their comments in response to my provisional decision. 
Mr P and Mrs S havent provided me with any new information that changes what I think 
about this case. Ive explained in my provisional decision why Ive concluded that the 
information Ive seen and been told isnt enough to suggest that the Barclays Managed 
Growth Fund was too risky for Mr P and Mrs S or otherwise unsuitable for them. And Ive 
explained the reasons why I think that Mr P and Mrs S understood what they were signing 
up to and my view that this fund appeared to reflect their wishes and objectives at the time. 
I think they would have been aware that projections and illustrations didnt provide any 
guarantee of growth. After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman