DRN-2576256
The complaint
Ms G and Mr W are unhappy because they say they were led to believe the lifetime 
membership for future mortgage applications they bought from Connells Limited (Connells) 
included buy to let mortgages.
They are also unhappy about the service they received from Connells when they applied for 
a further advance in 2019.
When I refer to what Ms G and Mr W has said, and Connells have said, it should also be 
taken to include things said on their behalf.
What happened
In March 2016, Ms G and Mr W purchased a lifetime membership for future mortgage 
applications with Connells, and they say they were not informed that a lifetime membership 
does not cover buy to let applications. They say it was only in 2019, during an application for 
an advance to pay off their help to buy loan, they were informed that the membership only 
covered residential mortgages. 
Ms G and Mr W are also unhappy with the service they received from Connells during an 
application for a further advance in 2019. They say that when this advance was being 
arranged by Connells there was conflicting information and there was a lack of knowledge 
and skill to deal with the lender. Ms G and Mr W say they spent many hours liaising directly 
with the lender themselves. They say the lender also contributed to the huge delays and 
frustration that they experienced during this application, and they have raised a separate 
complaint about this with the lender. 
In April 2020, Connells wrote to Ms G and Mr W, saying that, regarding the lifetime 
membership sold to Ms G and Mr W in 2016, the fee structure differs between residential 
mortgages and buy to let mortgages. They go on to say that Ms G and Mr W would have 
been provided with a document setting out their terms of business, including the fees 
payable showing a separate fee for buy to let application. They say this would have been 
discussed with them as part of the sales process. 
In this correspondence, they also addressed the issues of the further advance application in 
2019. They say a recommendation was made for Ms G and Mr W to go with their existing 
lender. They say that as part of the application review, the lender will instruct a valuation in 
order to ensure the property on which the mortgage was to be secured on is of suitable 
security. They said as the lender reserves the right to instruct who they wish to carry out the 
valuation, unfortunately, they had no say over who was chosen to do this. They say that part 
of this evaluation process was to confirm the safety of the cladding on the property. They go 
on to say that Ms G and Mr W provided documents and information on several occasions, 
however the lender was not satisfied with this information. This was even after they 
escalated the case with the lender on several occasions. They say Ms G and Mr W were 
informed the lender would not overturn their decision regarding the requirements for the 
valuation, but they were unable to find any evidence that would suggest Ms G and Mr W 
were told the further advance application had been declined. They say the lender 
subsequently produced a mortgage offer, and they contacted Ms G and Mr W, however, they 
opted not to proceed with the further advance. They concluded that they have no control 
over the lenders processes, and that they are satisfied that they made every effort to speed 
the process up and escalate this with the lender. As such they have not upheld Ms G and Mr 
Ws complaint. 
Ms G and Mr W were unhappy with this, so they brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld.
Ms G and Mr W disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Lifetime membership
Connells says Ms G and Mr W would have been provided with a document which detailed 
their terms of business and included the fees payable; showing a separate fee for buy to let 
applications.
Ms G and Mr W say that in 2016 they were told by Connells, during the home visit, that they 
could sign up to a one-off transaction for £200, or £400 for lifetime mortgage transactions on 
their property. They say they understood from the conversations that the lifetime deal would 
cover any mortgage on the property they wanted to take out, both residential or buy to let, if 
they chose to move out and rent the property in future.
I do not know what specifically was discussed between Ms G and Mr W and Connells in 
March 2016. So, I have therefore considered the other available evidence to determine 
whether I think it is likely Ms G and Mr W were misled by Connells. I had a look at the 
contemporaneous documents which include the customer declaration, which Ms G and Mr 
W signed in March 2016. And I have examined the key facts document about Connells 
services that Connells says was provided to Ms G and Mr W at that time. I also thought 
about what Ms G and Mr W have told us of their recollections of the sale in 2016, and 
whether there is anything within the documents, or elsewhere, that might support their 
version of events.
The customer declaration shows the lifetime membership fee of £399, which Ms G and Mr W 
signed, declaring that they have received the key facts about Connells services. From the 
key information document on Connells services, which Connells says Ms G and Mr W were 
provided with, I can see that it provides them with some options. They can either become a 
member for £499 which is payable only once, no matter how many times they move home or 
remortgage their existing property. Or, they could pay a fee of £299, which the document 
says is payable every time they move or remortgage their existing property. Then, separately 
and clearly right underneath this, the document says that for buy to let applications the fee is 
£499, and it is payable every time they move or remortgage their existing property. So, I 
think that from this document most likely Ms G and Mr W would have been aware that buy to let applications have a fee of £499 payable each time, therefore having the lifetime 
membership would not cover these. I know that Ms G and Mr W only paid £399 for the 
lifetime membership not £499, but Connells have told us that they paid less because a 
developer at the time contributed towards this fee. 
Considering the above, I thought about whether Ms G and Mr W received the key facts 
about Connells services. When speaking with our investigator Mr W has said that it was not 
pointed out to them that buy to let applications would not be covered, so, he says, they 
thought that maybe there was something buried in the terms and conditions that he missed. 
And when our investigator asked if they remember getting any further documents or terms 
and conditions besides the customer declaration that they signed, Mr W says that he doesnt 
recall whether they received any other terms and conditions as it was years ago. But, he 
says, that he works in the industry, and he is pretty thorough due to the work he does, as he 
puts together a lot of documents like this, so, he said, that he would be surprised if he 
missed it. 
So, I have taken this testimony into consideration, and whilst I believe that what Ms G and 
Mr W have told us reflects what they honestly remember, I also have to take into account 
that memories can and do fade after such a long time. And Mr W himself said, that it was 
years ago, so he doesnt remember if he received any other documents. Considering what 
Mr W told us about the fact that he is thorough due to the type of work he does, I think most 
likely they would not have signed the customer declaration saying that they received the key 
facts about Connells services if this was not the case. So, I think, most likely, they were 
provided with this document. And I think if they were not provided with that document, most 
likely, they would have questioned this at the time. If the document contained different 
information than what was being said to them during the sales visit, I think, most likely, they 
would have at least questioned which was correct and made their decisions accordingly to 
what they thought was best for them at the time. So overall considering the above, and the 
circumstances of this case, I think most likely Ms G and Mr W knew that their lifetime 
membership would not cover buy to let applications.  
Further advance application in 2019
Ms G and Mr W are unhappy with the service they received from Connells during the 
application process when they applied for a further advance in 2019. They say that when this 
advance was being arranged by Connells there was conflicting information and there was a 
lack of knowledge and skill to deal with the lender. So, Ms G and Mr W say they had to 
spend many hours liaising directly with the lender themselves. They say that up until a 
certain point they were kept well informed of the process, but they say the specific issues 
were around September 2019, when Connells at that time were awful to deal with. They say 
they had to push them hard to get the necessary information and contacts for the lender 
passed on so that they themselves could handle matters with the lender. They say this part 
of the application/passing information by Connells to them was obstructive, and they say 
Connells staff were incompetent. Ms G and Mr W say that Connells didn't understand the 
process and the information they were attempting to obtain and pass to the lender. They go 
on to say that had this happened to someone who doesn't have experience in this area, the 
application would have died at that stage because Connells were not handling it properly. 
Just a brief summary of the timeline, I can see the application for the further advance started 
in July 2019. From there, it took about four weeks for Ms G and Mr W to provide all the initial 
documents that were requested by the lender. Then it took another two to three weeks to 
provide all the necessary information regarding the cladding of the property, and I can see 
that by mid-September the lender was still requesting that the author of the report, stipulating 
to the cladding, amends the letter to confirm that an inspection of the building had taken 
place, or alternatively to provide an External Wall System Certificate of Compliance. A week or so later Ms G and Mr W said they were unable to provide this, and Connells tried to 
reason with the lender who requested that a different form be completed. About four days 
later Ms G and Mr W told Connells that other residences in the development have been 
having similar issues with the lender in question, but were able to have their application 
approved following escalation of their case. It was at this time Ms G and Mr W told Connells 
they were unhappy with the amount of time the application was taking and on the same day 
Connells contacted the lender to try and progress the matter. 
Over the next few days, I can see from the system notes that Connells tried to get this 
resolved with the lender, and tried to get the lenders senior personnel to review the 
application. When they were not getting anywhere with this, they explained to Ms G and Mr 
W that they could either raise a complaint themselves with the lender or they could put 
together a complaint on their behalf. Ms G and Mr W were not happy with this and they 
asked for the lenders contact information. Connells tried to explain that they were unable to 
provide them with the contact details of the manager they were dealing with at the lender as 
they are for intermediary use only, but once again offered to escalate the complaint for them. 
However, a couple of hours later that day, Connells checked with their own director who 
allowed for the contact information to be shared with Ms G and Mr W, who raised their own 
complaint that day. And within two days a full mortgage offer was issued by the lender.  
I know Ms G and Mr W are unhappy that Connells did not want to provide the contact details 
of the manager they were dealing with at the lender, until Connells agent confirmed with 
someone senior at their organisation that it was ok to do so. But this contact information was 
provided within two hours of Ms G and Mr W making the request, which I think is reasonable, 
considering the circumstances of this complaint and considering that Connells did offer to 
escalate their complaint with the lender for them. 
Looking at the progress of the application, I can see that Connells have kept Ms G and Mr W 
informed at all times and have not caused any unnecessary delays themselves. From the 
system notes, and from the correspondence between them and Ms G and Mr W, I can see 
that Connells made every effort to get the further advance application progressing with pace, 
and I cannot agree with Ms G and Mr W that, more likely than not, Connells were being 
obstructive and incompetent. Also, I have taken into consideration that Ms G and Mr W have 
been compensated for delays and inconvenience by the lender directly. In a letter to Ms G 
and Mr W the lender confirmed that it was their department that caused the delays. So, 
considering this and the circumstances of this complaint, I do not think it would be 
reasonable to ask Connells to take any further action in relation to this complaint. 
Ms G and Mr W are also unhappy as they say that at one point Connells told them that their 
application had been declined. Connells were unable to provide our service with the needed 
call recording, but I have considered their system notes and the correspondence between 
them and Ms G and Mr W. Based on this, I can see that Connells informed Ms G and Mr W 
that the lender would not overturn their decision regarding the cladding requirements, but I 
have not seen any evidence to say that most likely they told them that their application had 
been declined.
While Ms G and Mr W have my sympathy, looking at all the evidence available to me, I 
cannot reasonably say Connells acted unfairly in any way.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I do not uphold Ms G and Mr Ws 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman