DRN-3782559
The complaint
Miss W complains that esure Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on her motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to esure or the insurer, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I 
include repairers and others insofar as I hold esure responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a hatchback car, first registered in 2012. 
Miss W bought the car and from early August 2021, she had the car insured on a 
comprehensive policy with esure.
Unfortunately in late April 2022, Miss Ws car was damaged in an incident with a deer. She 
contacted esure.
Miss W complained to esure that it was responsible for poor communication and delay in 
collecting her damaged car. The insurer paid Miss W £200.00. It collected the car in mid-
May 2022.
The insurer did some repairs and Miss W got the car back on about 24 May 2022. She 
complained to esure that it hadnt done enough repairs, including replacing an indicator 
lamp. The insurer paid Miss W a further £50.00. It collected the car in mid-June 2022 and did 
further repair.
Miss W brought her complaint to us in late June 2022.
Miss W got the car back. In late July 2022, the car failed an MOT test. She made a further 
complaint to esure that it was responsible for a suspension arm causing the car to fail its 
MOT.
By a final response, esure said it wasnt responsible for the MOT failure. Nevertheless esure 
said it was sending Miss W a cheque for the cost of replacing the suspension arm, about 
£280.00. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
esure had awarded compensation for their errors in line with our approach  and made a 
payment to Miss W C as a gesture of goodwill for damage their engineer had deemed not 
incident- related.
Miss W disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. She says, in summary, that:
She bought her car last year. It had been fully serviced and had no issues. 
Her car was damaged through no fault of hers. 
Her insurance has gone up due to this, so the insurers only stand to benefit.
Her garage said that the cause of the repairs was very likely the accident with the 
deer. Before she even mentioned this, they had referenced a part being replaced 
recently but that the adjoining part had not been. Therefore esures garage did not 
check her car over properly. 
They have underperformed and she has not been compensated. The insurer has 
only paid for what they owe. All her wasted time and effort has not been 
compensated a proportionate amount.
These companies have to be held accountable for their inadequacies and having to 
pay her £530.00 will not make them change a thing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulates insurance companies. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service is bound by the FCAs dispute resolution rules. We investigate an 
individual consumers complaint against a regulated financial firm.
Where we find the insurance company responsible for an unfair act or omission, we look at 
its impact on that consumer. We may direct the company to put things right for that 
consumer by paying compensation.
We assess the level of compensation by reference to the actual impact on that consumer. 
We dont assess compensation by reference to what impact the unfair act or omission might 
have had, even if it is unsafe. We dont assess compensation at a level intended to punish or 
deter unfair acts or omissions.
We dont direct companies to improve procedures or levels of service to consumers 
generally. 
Miss Ws policy schedule from esure said that the excess for vehicle damage would be 
£250.00. 
Miss Ws car had passed an MOT test in the summer of 2021, when it had a recorded 
mileage of about 48,000 miles.
I accept Miss Ws statement that the car had been serviced. But it was about ten years old at 
the time of the accident. So I find it likely that some of its parts were worn.
Any claim was likely to adversely affect the future cost of insurance for Miss W.
In my view, the accident and the need to claim were bound to lead to a level of 
inconvenience including telephone calls.
I accept that the accident wasnt Miss Ws fault. Nevertheless she made a claim for vehicle 
damage, so I find that she was responsible for paying the excess of £250.00. The cost of 
repairs was estimated at about £1,800.00. 
The insurer paid the balance of the cost of repairs and it wasnt going to be able to recover 
that cost from a third party. From what Miss W has said, I infer that esure provided a courtesy car while her car was 
being repaired in May 2022. When Miss W brought her complaint to us in late June 2022, 
she said that she hadnt been offered a courtesy car This time round.
Miss W told us that she found esures service unacceptable and she felt powerless. 
Miss W told us that she had received £250.00 to cover the cost of her excess so in effect 
have not received any compensation. I accept that esure had paid a total of £250.00 which 
was the same amount as the excess.
But I dont consider that esure was obliged to refund the excess. So I find that esure had 
paid £250.00 compensation for the shortcomings in its service.
Miss Ws car failed an MOT test in late July 2022, when it had a recorded mileage of about 
55,000 miles. The reasons for failure included an excessively worn ball-joint in a suspension 
arm. Miss W says that esure shouldve warned her about this.
Miss W says that esures payment of about £280.00 did no more than to pay her what they 
owed.
But the ball-joint was worn, rather than damaged in the accident. So esure didnt have to pay 
to replace the suspension arm.
I accept that there were shortcomings in esures service and in particular in the way it 
communicated with Miss W. The impact of those shortcomings on Miss W included wasting 
her time in chasing esure more often than shouldve been necessary.
Nevertheless, I give esure credit for trying to put things right by paying Miss W £250.00 and 
later about £280.00. Im satisfied that these amounts were fair and proportionate to the 
impact of the shortcomings on Miss W. Overall, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
esure to pay Miss W any more compensation or to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct esure Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman