DRN-4482069
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold them a mortgage that was 
unaffordable for them. 
What happened
In February 2014 Mr and Mrs B applied for a mortgage through Barclays. They were advised 
to borrow £186,950 on capital repayment terms over 23 years. Barclays advised an initial 
five-year fixed interest rate of 3.55%. The contractual monthly payments were around £992. 
On 14 April 2014, Mr and Mrs B were issued with a mortgage offer setting out the terms of 
the mortgage. 
Following the global financial crisis, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) carried out a 
comprehensive investigation of the mortgage market  referred to as the Mortgage Market 
Review (MMR). There are regulations that have flowed from MMR. This has led to a series 
of major changes in the way residential mortgages are regulated, effective since 
26 April 2014. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter lending 
assessments  in particular around affordability, and around repayment strategies for 
interest only mortgages  aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to 
act more responsibly.
As a result of MMR requirements, it was necessary for lenders, including Barclays to make 
changes to its affordability calculations  as effect from 26 April 2014. 
Following an internal review some years later, Barclays found that it incorrectly assessed 
some mortgage applications in 2014  around the time it made changes to its affordability 
calculator. In some cases Barclays didnt carry out the required affordability assessment 
under the new MMR standards in full. Barclays initially thought that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage 
fell into this category. 
Barclays said following its review, it didnt think the error had impacted Mr and Mrs Bs ability 
to repay their mortgage nor has it caused any financial loss. So their mortgage had not been 
affected as a result of this. But to recognise the mistake and the time taken to notify 
Mr and Mrs B of the error, Barclays offered them £750 compensation each. 
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy about the letter they received so they complained to Barclays. 
They said that contrary to what Barclays say, they have experienced a financial loss 
because of its actions. Mr and Mrs B say that because Barclays lent them too much money 
their mortgage is unaffordable for them. Over the years theyve had to borrow from 
elsewhere to be able to make their monthly mortgage payments. They didnt think a joint 
combined award of £1,500 fairly compensated them in the circumstances. 
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It said it hadnt seen enough to suggest that the 
mortgage was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs B at the time that it was sold. In any event it said 
that, although the monthly mortgage payments have varied over time, to date they remained 
below the initial amount Mr and Mrs B budgeted for when they took out the mortgage. 
Barclays say there has been no loss because the approved mortgage allowed them to 
purchase a property that has significantly increased in value. Having considered everything it 
didnt agree that it was necessary to increase its compensation award.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy and brought their complaint to our service. 
Barclays later said that following a further review of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage account  it 
has found that their mortgage isnt impacted in the way it thought. 
Barclays said Mr and Mrs B received their mortgage offer on 14 April 2014. This was before 
the changes to affordability calculations which were put in place on 26 April 2014. So 
Barclays says that its pre-MMR affordability calculator was correctly used to assess the 
affordability of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage. So no error was in fact made with their affordability 
assessment.
An amendment was later made to Mr and Mrs Bs original offer, by changing the property. 
This caused a new offer to be issued in June 2014. However the underwriter agreed the 
amendment without the need for a further application  because the change being made 
wasnt material to affordability. All that was changing was the property, not the amount 
borrowed or Mr and Mrs Bs financial circumstances. 
So, Barclays said Mr and Mrs B should not have been included in the remediation project as 
no error has occurred, but it was still willing to honour its offer of £1,500. 
An investigator looked into things. She said that having considered everything shes not 
seen enough to suggest that Barclays had lent irresponsibly or that the mortgage had been 
mis-sold. The investigator explained why she thought Barclays offer fairly compensated 
Mr and Mrs B for any distress and inconvenience caused and why she wasnt 
recommending Barclays to do any more in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and asked for the case to be decided by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Bs concerns when they unexpectedly received a letter from 
Barclays in November 2022 that implied a mistake had been made in the way their mortgage 
was sold to them some years ago. Barclays has since said that the letter was sent in error, 
and it has explained why Mr and Mrs B should not have been included in the review that was 
carried out.  
This issue has understandably led Mr and Mrs B to question the overall affordability of their 
mortgage from its inception in 2014. Mr and Mrs B now also question a breach of the MMR 
rules. They say that because their mortgage completed after the new rules came into force, 
Barclays should've reassessed their application using the new rules, and by not doing so it 
has breached the MMR rules. Ive given careful consideration to this when reaching my 
decision.
Did Barclays mis-sell Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage?
Mr and Mrs B applied for a mortgage with Barclays in February 2014. An offer was issued on 
14 April 2014. So Mr and Mrs Bs application was submitted and approved before the MMR 
regulations came into force on 26 April 2014. Barclays changed the way it assessed Income Tax and National Insurance contribution from 
self-employed income, which came into effect on 26 April 2014. But by that point 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application had already been considered and an offer made, so 
Im satisfied Barclays assessed their application correctly using its existing criteria at that 
time, and I find no error was made with its affordability assessment on that basis. 
After Barclays issued its mortgage offer, Mr and Mrs B chose to purchase a different 
property. Mr and Mrs B received a new mortgage offer to reflect the new property details. 
Mr and Mrs B say that because they changed their property purchase, Barclays should have 
fully reassessed their application  using the new MMR affordability assessment. Because it 
didnt do so, it has breached the rules. 
Ive thought carefully about this. I can see that Barclays did consider the possible impact of 
the newly enforceable MMR affordability rules on Mr and Mrs Bs application. It was 
necessary for Barclays to refer the amended application to the relevant team for special 
approval. After considering the circumstances, Barclays agreed to approve the change of 
property without it impacting Mr and Mrs Bs existing application and the offer theyd already 
received for the same lending amount. I dont think that was unreasonable in the 
circumstances, Ill explain why. 
A mortgage offer confirms that the mortgage application has been accepted and the lender 
agrees to lend a sum of money. Its rare for a lender to withdraw a mortgage offer. It can 
happen in certain circumstances, usually where new information comes to light which is 
material to affordability and/or it uncovers dishonesty during the application or any criminal 
implications.
The only thing that changed during Mr and Mrs Bs application process was the property 
being purchased. The new property was for a lower value and so the loan to value ratio 
increased slightly  but not to the extent that Barclays considered this to be an added risk 
which meant it wasnt prepared to lend in the circumstances. 
The amount Mr and Mrs B wanted to borrow remained the same and they didnt declare a 
change to their financial circumstances. Im satisfied Barclays would only need to be 
concerned that the new property was suitable security to continue with the application as 
intended. A new valuation was carried out to achieve this.
Barclays had already agreed to give Mr and Mrs B a mortgage before the new MMR rules 
were enforced. Considering all the above, I think it would have been unreasonable of 
Barclays to withdraw Mr and Mrs Bs existing offer in the circumstances, solely because they 
chose to change their property purchase post offer. 
That said, Barclays still had a duty to lend responsibly. Based on everything Ive seen Im 
satisfied that Barclays considered Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application in line with the 
relevant rules  those specifically set out in the Mortgage Conduct of Business regulations 
(MCOB).
Ive carefully considered all the information available to me from the time of the application. 
And in doing so Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr and Mrs Bs application was incorrectly 
assessed by Barclays. Nor have I seen anything that would suggest the mortgage sold by 
Barclays was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs B or likely to be unsustainable. Barclays says that 
it carried out the necessary stress testing and income multiples were checked and 
completed in line with its internal policies at that time. 
Mr and Mrs B borrowed £186,950 to by a property valued at £238,000. Their mortgage was 
agreed on capital repayment terms over 23 years. Their interest rate was fixed for five years at a rate of 3.55% until March 2019, with a monthly payment of around £992. The 
affordability assessment produced enough disposable income to comfortably cover the 
mortgage payments.
Barclays asked for payslips, an SA302 and bank statements to verify the information 
provided by Mr and Mrs B during their application, and it carried out a credit search to check 
for any adverse information that would be considered a risk. 
Barclays assessed the application and carried out the necessary affordability checks in the 
way that Id expect it to. Mr and Mrs Bs application met Barclays lending appetite and when 
considering everything, Ive not seen anything to suggest Barclays lent irresponsibly in the 
circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B have described experiencing financial difficulty over the years 
after taking their mortgage. Im sorry to hear about their circumstances but I cant hold 
Barclays responsible for any change in circumstances that meant their commitments 
became unaffordable for them later, after the mortgage was sold. As Ive explained there 
was nothing to suggest the mortgage was not affordable for Mr and Mrs B when Barclays 
sold it to them. So I dont conclude that Barclays mis-sold Mr and Mrs B their mortgage as 
suggested. 
Putting things right
I appreciate this whole version of events has understandably caused Mr and Mrs B a degree 
of distress and inconvenience. Barclays admits it got things wrong in November 2022 when 
it incorrectly sent them the remediation letter. So whats left for me to decide is whether the 
things Barclays has done to put things right, including the amount of compensation awarded 
to date, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Upon receiving the remediation letter from Barclays in 2022, Mr and Mrs B were led to 
believe Barclays made an error in how it assessed affordability when it sold their mortgage.
This understandably caused them concern and worry and led them to question whether 
Barclays was responsible for any financial difficulty they may have experienced in the later 
years.  
I think the impact described could have been avoided by Barclays and Im pleased that in the 
circumstances Barclays has agreed to honour the compensation thats been offered. Having 
considered everything I think a compensation award of £1,500 combined for both Mr and 
Mrs B, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and settles this complaint satisfactorily for 
a mistake of this nature. So I wont be directing Barclays to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint to the extent that I direct Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to pay Mr and Mrs B £1,500 compensation as offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman