DRN-2117117
The complaint
Ms A complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Lloyds Bank) wont investigate and 
refund all of the disputed transactions on her account that she says she didnt make or 
otherwise authorise. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a very brief overview of the key points here.
Ms A contacted Lloyds on 22 January 2020 to notify them shed noticed several transactions 
that had debited her account, which she did not recognise. These disputed payments were 
to various merchants and dated back several years.  
Lloyds investigated and provided Ms A with a refund for all transactions she disputed dating 
back 13 months from 22 January 2020  this being the date she reported them. It explained 
that the terms and conditions of the account and the relevant regulations mean they dont 
have to investigate transactions that are disputed more than 13 months after theyve debited 
the account  so it didnt investigate or provide a refund for any of the disputed transactions 
which debited her account before 22 December 2018. Lloyds accepted the level of customer 
service extended to Ms A during the investigation was not up to standard, and as such they 
credited Ms As account with £100 for the inconvenience.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Ms A referred her complaint to this service. She made 
detailed submissions explaining why she felt it wasnt fair for Lloyds not to investigate all of 
the fraud and refund her all the money. These included several medical conditions that she 
has suffered from over the years and Lloyds failure to protect her account, which shed 
asked it to do when shed experienced similar fraud on her account in 2014. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
He didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly when it took the decision to not look into or refund 
transactions that occurred more than 13 months before Ms A reported them. As she still 
disagrees, Ms A has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im sorry to disappoint Ms A but Im of the opinion that Lloyds has treated 
her fairly, so Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Id like to assure Ms A that Ive reviewed everything, including her comments and 
evidence. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to explain what I think is 
the right outcome. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them. So, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues.
Ive already written to Ms A and explained that Im not making a finding as to whether or not 
she made or authorised the transactions in question. The crux of Ms As complaint and the 
principle issue is about whether or not it is fair and reasonable, in the circumstances of 
Ms As complaint, for Lloyds to decline to investigate and refund the transactions she 
disputes that debited her account more than 13 months before she reported them. 
Lloyds say its entitled to apply the 13-month time limit and that there was no automatic right 
to a refund of disputed transactions further back both under the PSRs and under its terms 
and conditions. So Ill deal first with the significance of when Ms A contacted Lloyds to raise 
her dispute. 
The 13-month time limit is found in regulation 59 of the Payment Services Regulations 
(PSR) 2009 and in regulation 74 of the PSR 2017. Both apply in the circumstances of 
Ms As complaint as some of the transactions that Ms A disputes fall under the PSR 2009 
and some under the PSR 2017. Ive shared with Ms A what both say about the 13-month 
time limit. Broadly speaking both say as long as a bank has provided or made available the 
information required of them, then any potential refund for a disputed transaction is only 
available if it is reported without undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 months after 
the debit date. I also note the terms and conditions of Ms As account with Lloyds also 
contain a similar provision which is in line with the 13-month time limit for bringing claims for 
disputed payments referred to under both applicable respective PSR regulations. 
Ms A raised her dispute on 22 January 2020 and has provided various reasons to help 
explain why she didnt report matters earlier but Im not persuaded that any of the reasons 
shes provided means that its unfair for Lloyds to rely on the relevant regulations when 
declining to investigate and refund the transactions she disputes that debited her account 
before 22 December 2018. 
Ms A has been clear in telling us that she has never used the services of the merchants 
whose transactions she disputes. She has also confirmed she received her bank statements. 
When asked why she didnt report the disputed transactions sooner she said it was because 
the transaction amounts were small, and she didnt really notice them. However, Im satisfied 
that Ms A ought reasonably to have been aware of these as Ive seen statements clearly 
detailing the payments  including the merchants name, that Ms A disputes. And given Ms A 
has said that she never used these merchants I think she couldve noticed money 
unexpectedly leaving her account without her authorisation and had ample opportunity to 
dispute the transactions in question sooner than she did. So Im satisfied it wasnt unfair or 
unreasonable, under the circumstances, for Lloyds to apply the 13-month time limit. 
Ms A explained that shed previously fallen victim to similar fraud in 2014 and for this reason 
thinks Lloyds shouldve been monitoring her accounts more diligently, and had it done so, it 
wouldve prevented the fraud. I think its important I begin by saying that its not for an 
ombudsman to regulate the nature and scope of a banks fraud-prevention systems. But of 
course, I agree that banks should have systems in place to protect their customers and be 
alert to fraud, but they also have to strike a balance between executing genuine payment 
instructions authorised by their customers and protecting them from potentially unauthorised use of their accounts. The disputed activity consisted of small transactions, to various 
merchants, which I couldnt reasonably have expected Lloyds to have identified as 
unauthorised or unusual. I note under the terms of her account it was also Ms As 
responsibility to regularly monitor her account and report any potential fraud in a timely 
manner.   
I can see in 2014, when Ms A reported fraud on her account, Lloyds took the appropriate 
steps to protect her account by cancelling the card which had been compromised and 
issuing her with a new debit card. It is Ms As responsibility to keep these new details safe. 
Its also common practice for banks to  especially when a customer has reported fraud, 
educate them on the importance of reviewing their account regularly and to report anything 
unusual immediately. Due to the length of time that has passed I dont have the records to 
show what was exactly said, but on balance I think Lloyds wouldve explained this to Ms A at 
the time. I also think its fair to say I wouldve expected Ms A to have been more observant 
about the activity on her account, particularly as shed already fallen victim to similar fraud. 
Ms A says Lloyds havent taken into consideration that she was suffering from several 
medical conditions over a significant number of years  some of which have had a long-
lasting impact. Im very sorry to hear of everything that Ms A has been through, and I realise 
it has been a very upsetting and difficult time for her. Ive thought about this carefully but Im 
afraid I dont think these would have prevented her noticing or raising any potential fraud 
with Lloyds sooner than she did. So I dont think it was a good reason for Lloyds to feel 
obliged to go beyond 13 months and refund all the payments.
I appreciate Ms A thinks this is unfair. But having considered everything I dont think it would 
be fair to ask Lloyds to consider all the transactions Ms A disputes. Im not persuaded there 
is anything so unusual and specific to the circumstances of this complaint that mean I can 
fairly say that Lloyds shouldnt rely on the relevant regulations. I know Ms A will be 
disappointed but overall, I dont think the position Lloyds have taken is unreasonable. Lloyds 
has paid Ms A £100 for poor service. This seems fair and reasonable to me, and in line with 
what Id expect to see in similar cases. So it follows that Im not going to be directing Lloyds 
to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman