DRN-3880387
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt settled his medical 
bills.
What happened
Mr C had a travel insurance policy underwritten by URV. In late 2019 he needed medical 
treatment in the USA and successfully claimed on his travel insurance policy. 
In 2020 URV partially settled the medical bill. But, as they thought the hospital had 
overcharged for the treatment, they didnt settle the bill in full. There was an outstanding 
balance of $3,834.25. 
Mr C made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in 2022. The complaint was 
considered by one of our investigators and he recommended that URV needed to carry out 
meaningful negotiation to settle the invoice. The investigators recommendation was 
accepted by the parties in August 2022.
As the matter still hasnt been resolved Mr C made a further complaint. URV acknowledged 
they hadnt kept Mr C updated but said theyd made reasonable attempts to negotiate with 
the debt collector who was chasing the debt. They offered Mr C £250 in compensation. 
Unhappy, Mr C complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service again. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. He thought URV 
should settle the outstanding balance. But, he thought the £250 compensation offered was 
fair. Mr C accepted the investigators findings. URV asked an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) set out how the 
Ombudsman Service can make awards.
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant the 
ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which in this case is 
URV. 
DISP 3.7.11R provides that a direction may require the respondent, here URV, to take such 
steps in relation to the complainant as the ombudsman considers just and appropriate 
whether or not a court could order those steps to be taken. 
The policy terms say URV can: 
Take over and deal with in your name the defence/settlement of any claim made 
under the policy.
In effect, this means that URV has the right to take over the conduct of a claim - defending or 
settling it in the name of Mr C. But, thats not an unqualified right. 
Legally, in situations where URVs interests conflict with Mr Cs, URV has an overarching 
responsibility to act in good faith, having regard to Mr Cs interests as well as their own. 
URV isnt entitled to act arbitrarily in the way it goes about declining to pay the full amount of 
the invoice and contesting the outstanding amount. In deciding whether - and how - to 
defend a claim against Mr C, URV is required to base their decisions on the circumstances 
of Mr Cs individual case.
The applicable regulations lead to a similar conclusion.  The Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for Businesses, which URV must follow, 
including:
Principle 6 - A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly 
Principle 8 - A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and 
its customers and between a customer and another client.
The relevant regulations also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which says:
An insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and
(4)  settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled The Responsibilities of Providers and 
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance 
on what the combination of Principles for Businesses ("the Principles") and the detailed rules 
require respectively of providers and distributors of financial services in certain 
circumstances to treat customers fairly. The RPPD explains that firms should consider the 
impact of their action, or inaction, on the customer throughout the life-cycle of the provision 
of the service. 
Im directing URV to settle the claim in full because:
Based on the evidence available to me I think URV have taken limited steps to 
resolve the outstanding balance. The situation reached an impasse in October 2022 
 URV said it had made a final offer of $1450, the debt collector said theyd accept 
80% of the total bill. 
No further negotiations have taken place since then and URV hasnt explored other 
options to bring the matter to a close. I dont think this can reasonably considered as 
meaningful negotiation or as URV taking sufficient proactive steps to resolve the 
outstanding balance. 
The balance has been outstanding since 2019  so its been more than three years 
since Mr C had to claim on his policy. URV had a range of options which include, but arent limited to, settling the matter via the courts, involving an expert or seeking 
alternative dispute resolution. Based on the evidence available to me, none of those 
options have been explored.  
URV has provided some limited data related to the hospital where Mr C was treated. 
They say this suggests the bill was inflated. But theyve not provided any persuasive 
or compelling evidence as to why this data establishes a credible benchmark for the 
cost of Mr Cs treatment. So, Im not persuaded URV has adequately demonstrated 
that this is a reasonable starting point for settling the invoice. And, I dont think its 
persuasive evidence of overcharging by the hospital. 
The outstanding invoice has caused Mr C to worry  he said hes found the situation 
very stressful. And its also been ongoing for a long time.
I dont think URV had treated Mr C fairly and considered his interests as well as their 
own. I think Mr C could have reasonably expected URV to settle his medical bills 
within a reasonable time frame and that hasnt happened.  
Putting things right
URV needs to put things right by settling the outstanding invoice in full. It should also pay 
Mr C £250 compensation if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Cs complaint and direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right in 
the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman