DRN-3316217
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Toyota Financial Services (UK) plc wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr B under a hire purchase agreement with Toyota Financial 
Services that he electronically signed in April 2021. There were some issues with the car so 
it was returned to the dealer for repairs three times in May 2021 but some of the faults 
continued so Mr B complained to Toyota Financial Services. It said that it understood that all 
of the issues had been repaired so it didnt uphold his complaint. Mr B wasnt satisfied with 
its response so complained to this service.
It then agreed in September 2021 to arrange an independent inspection of the car which 
took place in January 2022. Our investigator recommended that Mr Bs complaint should be 
upheld. He didnt think that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply so it was 
fair for Mr B to be able to reject the car. He recommended that Toyota Financial Services 
should: end the agreement and collect the car; refund Mr Bs deposit/part exchange 
contribution of £1,100 and 20% of the payments made from the first report of the faults to the 
date of settlement for the impaired use caused by the car not being of satisfactory quality (all 
with interest); pay him £150 for any distress or inconvenience that hed been caused; and 
remove any adverse information from his credit file in relation to the agreement.
Toyota Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
It says, in summary, that:
its happy to pay Mr B £150 compensation but feels that its unreasonable for it to 
take the car back, settle the finance and refund his deposit considering hes had full 
use of the car and has been kept mobile with a courtesy car;
there was a delay in the independent inspection being booked and its apologised for 
that;
the car was more than eight years old and had travelled 30,479 miles when it was 
supplied to Mr B so it would be expected that it would require repair or maintenance 
sooner than a car that was younger;
the dealer would have carried out a pre-delivery inspection which confirmed the car 
had been fully reviewed prior to handover and no concerns were raised or indicated 
any issues were present;
the cars MOT history confirmed that it passed an MOT test in March 2021 at 30,485 
miles with only one advisory so it was of satisfactory quality; and
its expected that as the car is being used regularly, wear and tear issues might occur 
and it will need to be reviewed and repaired as part of the maintenance whilst its in 
the customers possession, in line with the terms and conditions of the finance 
agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Toyota Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring 
that it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B - whether or not it was 
of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the 
age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr B was about eight and a half years old, had been 
driven for 30,479 miles and had a price of £4,694.50;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Mr B returned the car to the dealer less than four weeks after the car had been 
supplied to him because of issues with the steering wheel shaking, getting into gear, 
the exhaust rattling and starting the car  some of those issues were repaired but the 
job card says: No fault found on bad start or gear fault;
the car was again returned to the dealer 24 days later because of a number of issues 
including the clutch pedal being high and a grinding when changing gear  some 
repairs were carried out and the job card says: Clutch high [advise] new clutch 
although all [model identified] clutches are high and [Carried out] all [required] work 
 gears still a bit sticky but biting point better;
Mr B returned the car to the dealer four days later because there were still issues 
with the cars gears (and a door handle had broken off)  the job card says that the 
gears had been repaired and were ok;
Mr B says that there were still issues with the cars gears so he complained to Toyota 
Financial Services but it said that it understood that all of the issues had been 
repaired;
after Mr B had complained to this service it agreed in September 2021 to arrange for 
the car to be inspected by an independent expert  it has apologised for the delay in 
arranging it and the car was inspected in January 2022;
the inspection report says that the cars mileage was 37,726 and: Whilst driving the 
vehicle the engineer found on a number of occasions but randomly that on 
attempting to engage second gear either going up the gears or down the gears, that 
2nd gear did not engage correctly, this had to be forced to engage. During testing of 
the vehicle the engineer did also have the same issue in engaging 3rd gear, this was 
not as frequent as the 2nd gear issue. The engineer also noticed that the clutch bite 
point is nearly at the top of the pedal travel, and whilst driving with the slightest of 
pressure on the clutch pedal makes the clutch begin to slip.
Mr B had complained to the dealer about issues with the cars gears three times in 
May 2020 and, although the dealer had tried to repair the faults, when the car was 
inspected in January 2021 there were still faults with the gears;
I consider it be more likely than not that those faults were present when the car was 
supplied to Mr B and, even though the car was about eight and a half years old when 
it was supplied to Mr B, I dont consider that it was of satisfactory quality at that time 
because of those faults; Toyota Financial Services says that the dealer checked the car before it was supplied 
to Mr B and that it had passed an MOT test  but I dont consider that thats enough 
to show that the car was of satisfactory quality; and
the dealer has tried to repair those faults but they havent been successful so I find 
that it would be fair and reasonable for Mr B to be able to reject the car and for 
Toyota Financial Services to take the actions described below.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Toyota Financial Services to end the hire 
purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mr B  both at no cost to 
him. I find that it should also remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that 
its recorded on Mr Bs credit file.
The agreement shows that Mr B paid a cash deposit of £450 and also part-exchanged a car 
with a value of £650  so the total deposit that he paid was £1,100. I find that it would be fair 
and reasonable for Toyota Financial Services to refund that deposit to Mr B, with interest.
Mr B was able to use the car to drive more than 7,000 miles between April 2021, when it was 
supplied to him, and January 2022, when the independent inspection took place, and Toyota 
Financial Services says that he was provided with a courtesy car was the car was with the 
dealer. I consider that its fair and reasonable for Mr B to pay for the use that hes had from 
the car so I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Toyota 
Financial Services to refund to him the monthly payments that hes made under the 
agreement. But his use and enjoyment of the car will have been impacted by the issues with 
the car, particularly the ongoing faults with the gears  and I agree with our investigator that 
it would be fair and reasonable for Toyota Financial Services to refund to Mr B 20% of his 
monthly payments, with interest, as compensation for that loss of use and enjoyment - but I 
consider that the refund should apply to the period since the car was supplied to him. 
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mr B. I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for Toyota Financial Services to pay him £150 to compensate 
him for that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and I order Toyota Financial Services (UK) plc 
to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr B  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr B the deposit of £1,100 that he paid for the car.
3. Refund to Mr B 20% of the monthly payments that hes made under the hire 
purchase agreement as compensation for his loss of use and enjoyment of the 
car.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Mr Bs credit file.6. Pay £150 to Mr B to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Toyota Financial Services to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 4 above. Toyota Financial Services must give Mr B a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman