DRN-3128144
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the advice Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited gave 
him under his motor policy following an accident.
What happened
Mr A originally insured his car with LV with a comprehensive policy and that renewed on 9 
December 2019.
Because he was going away for an extended period of time, Mr A changed his policy to fire 
and theft cover only from 28 May 2020.  He also registered his car as SORN. 
Mr A then returned on 28 October 2020, taxed his car but forgot to amend his policy to 
provide comprehensive cover again. Sadly, he was involved in an accident on 4 November 
2020 which he agreed was his fault. No one was injured but the other driver made a claim on 
Mr As policy for damage to their car.
LV admitted that initially it gave Mr A the wrong advice in saying he was indemnified against 
the other drivers claim when Mr A phoned it to report the accident. LV corrected this in its 
letter to Mr A on 11 November 2020. It explained that with just fire and theft cover Mr A 
shouldnt been driving his car on the road.
Unfortunately, Mr A had gone away again and didnt receive this letter until he returned on 
18 May 2021. Further whilst he was away, he also received correspondence from the other 
drivers insurers making that claim and asking him to get in touch by 10 March 2020 as 
otherwise proceedings could be issued. Lastly the police had tried to contact him to confirm 
who was driving on the day of the accident. 
Mr A complained to LV about all this. LV confirmed he wasnt covered for the accident and 
again apologised about its initial advice and it paid him £100 compensation. Mr A remained 
unhappy and brought his complaint to us. He also complained that LV had told him at the 
time of the accident he didnt have to give his name to the other driver. 
The investigator was of the view didnt think LV had to do anything more. Mr A disagreed so 
his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
My role to investigate to see if LV did anything wrong bearing in mind Mr A merely insured 
his car for fire and theft and forgot to change his policy back to comprehensive cover before 
he drove it.
First, its not LVs fault that Mr A forgot to change his policy back to comprehensive cover. 
Nor indeed is it LVs fault that Mr A went abroad again so quickly after the accident so 
unable to know what was sent to him by letter by LV, the other drivers insurers or the police. 
Mr A makes three complaints. The first is that he was told by LV on 4 November 2020 at the 
time of the accident that LV told him he didnt have to give the other driver his name. 
However, Ive searched LVs file and theres no record of Mr A calling in at the time of the 
accident at all, only calling in the following day to report the accident. Mr A contends this 
would have helped matters with the police who tried to contact him when he was away to 
ascertain who was driving at the time at the accident. However, nothing much turns on this 
point because its clear from the correspondence from the other drivers insurers, they knew 
Mr A was driving the car in any event.
The second complaint is that LV mistakenly told him on 5 November any claim from the 
other driver would be indemnified. This was clearly wrong but that doesnt mean LV are then 
responsible for the other drivers claim. LV quite rightly corrected this mistake swiftly and 
informed Mr A of the same by letter dated 11 November 2020. But it didnt know Mr A was 
then out of the country again and couldnt read his post and hadnt made any arrangements 
for anyone else to look at his post in his absence. So, given LV swiftly informed Mr A of its 
mistake, the fact that Mr A was abroad and couldnt read his post isnt anything to do with LV 
at all. On that basis, Mr As contention that if LV hadnt made this mistake, he then would 
have made contact with the other drivers insurers isnt rational as LV afforded Mr A of that 
opportunity by its letter of 11 November 2020 but sadly Mr A wasnt around to read it until he 
came home the following May. In any event, the other drivers insurers didnt issue 
proceedings against Mr A, it merely threatened to do in the standard letter always used 
making the claim on behalf of its insured.
The third complaint has no bearing given Mr A contends LV wrongly said in its letter that his 
named driver was driving the car at the time of the accident. Nothing turns on this at all. The 
other drivers insurer knew it was Mr A driving, so it has no relevance, and neither did it 
affect anything that followed on afterwards. 
LV quite rightly offered Mr A compensation when he complained in May 2021 because it did 
give him incorrect information on 5 November 2020 about his indemnity. But considering Mr 
A ensured his car was only covered for fire and theft in the first instance and failed to 
remember to amend his policy before he drove it, the fact that there no indemnity for the 
other drivers claim lies at the hands of Mr A alone, and not LV. On that basis I consider 
£100 compensation to be a fair level for the mistake made.
Therefore, as LV had nothing to do with limiting the cover to fire and theft only since that was 
Mr As decision, I consider that LV doesnt have to do anything further concerning this 
complaint.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman