DRN-2845561
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has refused to refund a card payment made from his 
bank account. 
What happened
Mr H made a card payment from his Lloyds bank account to buy merchandise online, which 
was due to be delivered to his home address. 
However, the goods failed to arrive as he had planned. Mr H therefore contacted Lloyds and 
asked it to make a chargeback claim in an attempt to get the money back. Upon reviewing 
the circumstances of the payment, Lloyds raised the chargeback and temporarily refunded 
the payment amount into Mr Hs account, as per its normal process. 
Lloyds then went on to review the response the merchant gave to the claim. As a result of 
this information, Lloyds decided that the chargeback would likely prove unsuccessful and 
therefore told Mr H that it was going to take back the money from his account. It gave him 
notice of its intention to do so, while at the same time letting him know that he could provide 
counter information should he disagree with the decision to decline the chargeback claim. 
In the end, the money Mr H paid for the merchandise wasnt returned by Lloyds. But he did 
receive the goods themselves  albeit, he was unhappy with the way they had been 
packaged by the merchant. When Mr H raised a complaint with Lloyds, the bank reiterated 
that it had acted reasonably and in keeping with the proper chargeback process. 
Mr H remained unhappy, because he thought that Lloyds ought to have resubmitted the 
chargeback claim on the grounds of the goods not being as described. When Lloyds 
declined to do this, Mr H brought the matter to our service. One of our investigators looked 
into it and thought that Lloyds had acted reasonably in carrying out the chargeback. She 
didnt recommend that the bank do anything differently for the claim. But, in light of the 
service provided, she agreed that Lloyds should pay the £124 compensation it had 
previously offered Mr H. 
Mr H does not agree. He maintains that the bank ought to have recovered this payment. 
Especially, as the merchant acted unreasonably when he tried to return the goods. In Mr Hs 
view, Lloyds ought to have done more to retrieve the full amount he paid. Because Mr H is 
not in agreement, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder (Mr H here) has a dispute with a merchant, the 
card issuer (Lloyds) can attempt a chargeback. Put simply, a chargeback is a way for 
customers to dispute certain card payments and is run by the card scheme  VISA in this 
case. This method of attempted recovery can only be used for specified reasons (known as 
reason codes), such as where goods or services arent received, for example. Also, the 
chargeback claim itself and the parties involved must adhere to the relevant timescales. 
Although theres no strict obligation on a bank to carry out a chargeback, generally its fair for 
one to be attempted  or for a payment to be challenged  if theres a reasonable prospect 
of success. In order to weigh up whether this particular chargeback was likely to be 
successful, Lloyds checked the nature of Mr Hs dispute against the card scheme rules. 
Which was the right thing to do, because chargebacks are decided based on these rules, not 
the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. 
At first, Mr H told Lloyds that he hadnt received the merchandise as promised. This later 
changed  but only after the chargeback had already been raised by the bank. I appreciate 
things developed and Mr H mightve worried that he wouldnt end up gaining possession of 
the merchandise. However, I find it only fair that Lloyds be held accountable to act on the 
information Mr H first provided it with. Naturally, it wasnt to know whether the merchandise 
would materialise. Further, its a requirement of the scheme rules that the cardholder 
attempts to resolve the dispute directly with the merchant before initiating a chargeback with 
their card issuer. 
So, it was reasonable for Lloyds to have submitted the claim on the basis that Mr H had 
already tried without success to sort the problem out before asking for a chargeback to be 
raised. Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds acted reasonably in submitting Mr Hs chargeback claim 
under the merchandise/services not received reason code that it did. 
In this case, the merchant provided compelling evidence to show the merchandise was 
successfully delivered to Mr H, amongst a host of other supporting information for its side of 
the story. Lloyds didnt pursue the matter any further, on the basis that this was a sufficient 
defence to the claim. In keeping with proper practice, Lloyds gave Mr H clear notice of its 
decision not to take things further and informed him that it would be taking the temporary 
refund back out of his account.  
In order for me to determine that Lloyds acted unfairly, I would need to be persuaded that it 
was reasonable for the merchants response to be challenged. But there seems little sense 
in pursuing a chargeback on the grounds of a cardholder not receiving the merchandise 
when the evidence shows that this was not in fact the case. Indeed, Mr H does not dispute 
that he received the goods. 
It was possible for Lloyds to have challenged on the basis that Mr H did not receive the 
goods by the expected date. And it does appear that there was a delay in the delivery of the 
items. However, its a requirement of the scheme rules that supporting documentation be 
provided to show that the cardholder has attempted to resolve the dispute with the merchant 
and has returned the goods back to the seller. In other words, for Lloyds to go forward on 
these grounds, there were strict requirements for what it had to submit information-wise. According to the evidence, once Mr H was in possession of the merchandise, he and the 
merchant came to a revised agreement on the price of the goods. The records show that 
both parties exchanged numerous messages and it was mutually agreed that Mr H would 
keep the goods but pay less than what was originally charged. On account of this, Lloyds 
says it was unable to provide the required information to challenge the merchant any further. 
Essentially, its cardholder wasnt returning the merchandise back to the seller. Rather, it 
looked like the matter had been resolved between both parties and therefore no further 
action was needed in terms of the chargeback.  
I appreciate that Mr H may disagree that this is what actually happened. But its evident that 
he had accepted ownership of the goods instead of trying to return them. I therefore cannot 
agree that Lloyds should have gone further than it did, as there was strong evidence that it 
would be unable to provide the necessary information even if the matter wasnt in fact 
resolved. 
Mr H believes that he was misled by the merchant and this ought to have been taken into 
account. Hes submitted that the merchant actually refused to give him the necessary details 
to allow him to return the goods. And so, he was restricted from obtaining a refund by 
returning what hed been sent. While I recognise why Mr H is frustrated with what happened, 
this complaint is about Lloyds as his debit card account provider  its not about the 
merchant, which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Im only 
considering whether Lloyds acted reasonably in its attempt to try and help Mr H with the 
dispute with the merchant  not whether Mr H was mistreated by the merchant itself. 
Its for this reason that I cannot comment on what should or shouldnt have happened with 
the purchase, nor whether the party responsible for selling it to Mr H acted honestly. The 
card scheme rules make it clear what information is required so that a card issuer can make 
an informed decision about the prospects of a successful chargeback. Ultimately, Lloyds 
took the decision not to appeal the claim any further and, bearing in mind the relevant 
scheme rules and the information provided as part of the claim, I think this was fair and 
reasonable.  
Mr Hs says that Lloyds ought to have proceeded with the dispute on the grounds of the 
merchandise being of insufficient quality, because the way in which the items were 
packaged breached the agreement he had with merchant. And failing this, he also argues 
that Lloyds shouldve raised a second chargeback using an altogether different reason code 
to what it initially submitted.  
However, according to the scheme rules, a dispute about the quality of the merchandise is 
invalid under the chargeback reason code Lloyds presented on. So, even if Lloyds had tried 
this method, its reasonable to conclude that it wouldve proved unsuccessful. And in the 
circumstances of this case, Lloyds was not permitted to initiate a dispute for the same 
transaction more than once  so it couldnt try again using a different reason code. I cannot 
ignore that Lloyds has to abide by the prescribed process and be compliant with the scheme 
rules; both of which make it clear that it was highly unlikely that either of these suggested 
lines of enquiry would have led to Mr H recovering his money.
Im satisfied that Lloyds informed Mr H that he could provide additional information and/or 
evidence to support his claim and that this needed to be provided by a set time. This seems 
fair to me, as it gave Mr H another chance to submit information to contend the banks 
decision not to go any further with the claim. Mr H says he responded within the required 
time, despite Lloyds argument that he failed to do so. But even if Mr Hs counter evidence 
was submitted in time, this still would have to have made a material difference to the 
outcome of the chargeback claim, according to the scheme rules. And having carefully 
considered what he provided to the bank, I dont think it would have. Therefore, under these circumstances, I cant safely conclude that Lloyds acts or omissions 
caused the chargeback to be unsuccessful.  
Finally, Mr H asserts that Lloyds failure to send him confirmation of the chargeback outcome 
caused him to lose out on the opportunity to seek recovery of his money through alternative 
means. As I understand it, he used an intermediary website to source the merchandise from 
the merchant, and he claims that this website would have offered a full refund of his payment 
had Lloyds provided a timelier response. 
Its important to point out that Mr H hasnt substantiated that this intermediary website 
guaranteed a full refund. But in any event, theres documentary evidence that Lloyds did 
respond to Mr H within a reasonable amount of time. The records show that it replied to 
certain emails within a matter of days of Mr H getting in touch with the bank. Lloyds gave 
clear notice that the claim was closed and reiterated that there were no longer valid 
chargeback rights against the merchant in light of the time limits that VISA impose. For this 
reason, I am not convinced that Mr H wouldve otherwise recovered his money had Lloyds 
acted differently. 
Nevertheless, Mr H does seem to have been caused a degree of unnecessary trouble and 
upset by the bank, and Lloyds has put forward a total of £124 compensation in an attempt to 
put this right. Having considered the overall service Lloyds provided to Mr H, its my 
judgment that there was room for improvement. For this reason, I agree that compensation 
is appropriate here. In the circumstances, I find the offer already put forward by Lloyds to be 
a proportionate reflection of the impact caused. I therefore do not require the bank to 
increase this amount.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
I understand Lloyds Bank PLC has already offered Mr H a total of £124 compensation, which 
I find fair and reasonable.
So, Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr H a total of £124, if it hasnt already done so, within 28 
days of receiving notice from us of his acceptance of this decision, failing which interest will 
start to accrue on this sum  or on any unpaid proportion  at the simple rate of 8% a year 
(less any tax properly deductible) until the date of payment. 
Mr H should note that if he accepts my decision and Lloyds offer, it will be legally binding 
and he wouldnt be able to take further action over these matters. If, however, he rejects the 
decision or doesnt reply on time, his legal rights will remain intact  but itll then be strictly a 
matter for Lloyds as to whether its offer remains open for acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman