DRN-3401614
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way a balance transfer he made has been handled by Barclays
Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard
What happened
In February 2018, Mr W transferred a balance from another credit card to one with 
Barclaycard as there was a promotional offer of 18 months with 0% interest. Mr W looked to 
settle the balance transfer by monthly direct debit payments. In January 2021 he contacted 
Barclaycard as he couldnt access his online account, and he hadnt been receiving any 
paper statements. Mr W wanted to know if there was any outstanding balance on the 
account.
Mr W said it was only after this call that he found the card he had ending *0001 had been 
blocked and another card ending *2001 had been sent to him. Mr W complained to 
Barclaycard he said by not being able to access his online account and without paper 
statements he hadnt known that the balance hadnt been cleared and hed incurred interest 
and charges. He said this had caused him some distress and financial difficulty.
Barclaycard said Mr W had opted out of paper statements when he opened the account. 
They also said theyd alerted him to the end of the interest free period by email. 
Mr W wasnt happy with Barclaycards response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that there had been statement prompts sent by email as well as two 
notifications, reminding Mr W that the interest free period was ending. He didnt think 
Barclaycard had done anything that would have prevented Mr W the opportunity to pay off 
the balance before the interest free period ended.
Mr W didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Ws frustration as to access his online account he needed his active 
card number. And by not receiving paper statements he was looking to his online account to 
check the status of his account.
So, Ive considered what has happened.
In February 2018 Mr W used an 18-month promotional interest free offer from Barclaycard to 
transfer a balance from another credit card he had. Mr W transferred £5,226.59 from his 
other credit card with a transfer fee of £99.31, leaving an overall balance of £5,325.90. I can 
see from  Mr Ws statements that he set up a monthly direct debit mandate and was making 
the minimum monthly repayments. And that hed registered for online services. Mr W was 
issued with a Barclaycard ending *0001. From the statements I cant see that Mr W used 
card *0001 to make any purchases, and the balance was gradually reducing as he paid the 
minimum monthly repayment.
In November 2018, I can see Mr W was issued with two cards, the first ending *4008, 
followed by *2001. And that two transactions were made in that month. From Barclaycards 
notes I can see they were looking into some suspicious activity on the account, and they 
wrote to Mr W. The records show, in November 2018 Mr W called them after receipt of their 
letter. In the call the contact details for Mr W were confirmed, the records also show that 
card *0001 was blocked. And that another card would be issued - card ending *2001. I cant 
see any record of Mr W contacting Barclaycard about non-receipt of card *2001 or not being 
able to use card *0001 until January 2021. Neither do Barclaycards records show any log in 
attempts being made by Mr W to his account, or any requests being made by him for paper 
statements to be sent prior to January 2021.
Mr W said he didnt know his interest free period ended August 2019 as he didnt get any 
paper statements and he didnt have access to his online account. But Barclaycards records 
show an email was sent in May 2019 to the same email address Mr W has given this 
service, and which hed confirmed in the November 2018 call. The email notified Mr W that 
the interest period was ending in August 2019. I can see another reminder email was sent in 
July 2019. Mr W may not have read the emails, but I cant hold Barclaycard responsible for 
this. And given the interest free period was for 18 months I would have expected 
Mr W to be aware that there was a pre-determined end date to the promotional offer. 
I know Mr W was paying his account by direct debit and he said he thought this would be 
clearing the balance. But to settle the initial balance over 18 months it would have needed 
him to pay around £300 each month to clear this balance over the period of the promotional 
offer. But from Mr Ws statements I can see he didnt pay more than around £120 a month 
from the start of his direct debit being taken. And as he paid the minimum repayment the 
repaid amount reduced further each month. So, I think it should have been clear that the 
minimum repayment wasnt sufficient to clear the outstanding balance over the life of the 
promotional offer. And that there would be an outstanding balance at the end of it.
Barclaycards terms and conditions say:
At the end of the promotional or instalment plan period, we will transfer any outstanding 
balance to your standard balance or your cash balance (as appropriate) and we will start 
charging interest on it at your standard rate or any cash rate that applies.
I know Mr W will be disappointed by my decision but I think Barclaycard made him aware 
that the promotional offer was ending. So, I cant say that Mr W being unable to access his 
online account or not having paper statements caused him to lose the opportunity to settle 
his balance before it started to incur interest charges.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman