DRN-4439422
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with what Covea Insurance plc did after he made a claim for a stolen bike. 
What happened
Mr H has contents insurance with Covea which includes cover for accidental loss or 
accidental damage to personal possessions. In September 2022 he made a claim on his 
policy as his bike had been stolen. He submitted further details of the claim and in November 
Covea said it would settle the claim for £852 net of the policy excess.
However, five days later Covea said it had reviewed matters and thought some of the items 
Mr H had claimed for werent covered. It made a revised offer of £565 (also net of the 
excess). It subsequently agreed to increase that by £30 to cover the cost of new pannier 
fixings. 
Our investigator agreed with Covea that some of the items Mr H had claimed for werent 
covered by his policy. And she thought the settlement offer it had now made was fair. But 
she thought hed been given a false expectation that a higher amount would be offered. And 
Covea should have included the pannier fixings cost in its original offer. She said it should 
pay Mr H £125 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it had caused him (which 
included £25 that Coveas claims team had previously offered).
Covea asked for clarification of the compensation amount which our investigator provided. 
She asked it to confirm whether it agreed to pay this and said if we didnt hear from it the 
case would be moved for review by an Ombudsman. As Covea hasnt responded I need to 
reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Covea has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy. This does cover accidental loss or 
damage to personal belongings (in addition to other causes set out in the policy which 
include theft). The definition of personal belongings includes pedal cycles. And I dont think 
its in dispute the policy covers the claim Mr H made for his bike. 
However, I think Covea was right to conclude some of the other items Mr H had claimed for 
werent covered by his policy. His claim included things hed bought for his bike but were still 
in his possession. I understand why he wanted to claim for those but as he still had them 
there isnt a loss here thats covered by his policy. And while I appreciate Mr H incurred 
costs in getting home after the theft theres no cover in his policy for that either. 
The damage to his cycle helmet might be something the policy would cover. But for personal 
possessions (though not pedal cycles) the policy requires these are in the policyholders 
custody or control. In this case I understand Mr H had left his helmet with his bike. However, 
I dont think it would have been unreasonable for him to have kept the helmet with him as 
hes said he did with other items that werent part of the bike. So I dont think it was unfair of 
Covea to exclude the helmet from the claim he made. 
But I agree Covea should contribute to replacement pannier fixings as these were fixed to 
Mr Hs bike and so were lost when the theft took place. I also agree Covea should have 
included this in its original settlement. And I think Covea did give Mr H an expectation his 
claim would be paid in full when it emailed him on 9 November. He accepted that offer and 
provided his bank details in response. 
I accept that error was remedied relatively quickly but its clear Mr H was nevertheless 
caused some avoidable distress by that. I think the total compensation our investigator 
recommended of £125 is reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Covea Insurance plc will need to put things right by 
paying Mr H £125 (which for the avoidance of doubt includes the £25 its claims team had 
already offered to pay him). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman