DRN-2949017
The complaint
Mr G complains about information recorded on his Equifax Limited credit file. 
What happened
Mr G has explained that his contract with a mobile phone provider (A) ended after he made 
all the required payments. But A reported an outstanding balance on Mr As credit file and 
hes also told us it instructed debt collectors to chase him for payments that werent due. In 
November 2020 Mr G contacted Equifax to dispute As entry on his credit file. Equifax 
responded and asked Mr A to provide more information to help identify the entry in question. 
In February 2021 Mr G contacted Equifax again and raised concerns about As entry. 
Equifax raised a dispute with A as directed by Mr G. A responded and explained the 
information it was reporting about Mr Gs mobile phone contract was correct and it didnt 
agree to amend it. Equifax sent Mr G an email confirming As response and also included 
information about how to record a Notice of Correction (NOC).
Mr G complained but Equifax didnt agree any errors had been made. Equifaxs final 
response explained Mr G should contact A directly to dispute the information it was 
reporting. Mr G referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. 
They thought Equifax had dealt with Mr Gs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mr G asked to appeal and said hed given Equifax the information it needed to record a 
NOC on his credit file and that it had refused to act on his instructions. As Mr G asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several parties involved in this case. A, the mobile phone provider, its debt 
collectors and Equifax. In this case, Im only able to look at the actions of Equifax. That 
means Im not going to make a finding on whether the information A has reported is correct 
or not. As the investigator has said, Mr G can contact A directly to discuss the outstanding 
balance and potentially dispute it directly. There as a separate dispute resolution service 
available for mobile phone complaints and Mrs G has the option of referring any unresolved 
matters to it. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but I havent found anything that shows Equifax has made an 
error or treated him unfairly. Equifax reports information supplied by third party businesses 
on a consumers credit file. Where a dispute about the information reported is raised, Equifax 
cant simply delete it. I can see that when Mr G gave full details of the account he wanted to 
dispute it was raised with A quickly. Thats in line with what Id expect Equifax to do. 
A responded to Mr Gs dispute and confirmed its stance that the outstanding balance 
reported was correct. A didnt approve any amendments by Equifax. I can see Equifax 
quickly gave Mr G As response and, in the same email, provided details about how to 
record a NOC on his credit file. As A didnt approve any amendments to its entry on Mr Gs 
credit file, Im satisfied Equifax was correct when it told him no changes could be made. I 
think Equifaxs decision to refer Mr G back to A to dispute the matter was reasonable. Im not 
going to tell Equifax to amend As entry. I leave it to Mr G to decide whether he wants to 
dispute the information A reports directly. 
Mr G says hes provided the NOC information as part of his complaint and that Equifax 
shouldnt be forcing him to go through unnecessary processes to record his comments. I 
take Mr Gs point, but I havent been persuaded that Equifaxs request is unreasonable. It 
has a set way to record NOCs on credit files that involves the consumer registering it via its 
systems. I appreciate that will take a degree of involvement from Mr G, but I havent been 
persuaded that the process involved is unreasonably inconvenient or a barrier to registering 
a NOC. Again, I leave it to Mr G to decide whether he wants to record a NOC on his Equifax 
credit report. If he does, Equifax has provided the relevant guidance concerning how that 
can be done. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but as Im satisfied Equifax dealt with his complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman