DRN-2873304
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined a 
claim they made under their home insurance policy for subsidence.
Mr S has dealt with the claim and complaint throughout, so Ill only refer to him.
  
What happened
In 2018, Mr S got in touch with RSA because hed noticed cracking in the extension of his 
property. RSA appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and arrange for 
investigations to establish the cause of the problem.
The loss adjuster said the damage had been caused by subsidence as a result of nearby 
trees causing clay shrinkage. But it said the claim wasnt covered by RSAs policy because 
the foundation of the extension was 1m deep. And because of the nearby trees, it should 
have been deeper.
Mr S wasnt happy with this and complained. He said the extension was approved by the 
local council in 2004. He bought the property soon after and received a copy of the councils 
completion certificate. He didnt think it was fair for the claim to be declined, particularly as 
the loss adjuster had said 1m was the minimum required.
When Mr S didnt receive a response, he referred his complaint to this service. Mr S took 
advice from a building engineer, C, who didnt think it was fair for the claim to be declined. 
Our investigator shared Cs report with RSA, but it maintained its position.
Our investigator considered the complaint should be upheld. She thought the certificate 
showed the extension complied with building regulation at the time of its construction. And 
this would have provided Mr S with reassurance the extension had been built to an 
appropriate standard when he bought the property. She said RSA should accept the claim 
and pay £250 compensation for the distress caused by the delay in dealing with the claim.
Mr S agreed. RSA didnt. It said the foundation should have been built deeper than the 
minimum of 1m. And it didnt think the foundation complied with Building Regulations. RSA 
said the certificate Mr S provided was irrelevant. It later provided standards used by a certain 
builder of new homes, N, and said this showed the foundation ought to have been built to a 
minimum of 2.5m given the nearby trees.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence and RSA accepts the extension has 
suffered subsidence damage. The policy doesnt cover damage caused by faulty design. 
RSA considers the design was faulty because the foundation wasnt built deep enough. The 
onus is on RSA to show the design is faulty, bearing in mind the relevant requirements at the 
time of construction.
The loss adjuster considered standards applied by a certain builder of new homes, N. It says 
these standards require a foundation depth of at least 2.5m, taking into account the nearby 
trees and soil type underneath the rear extension. It also said an engineer designed 
foundation may be required and this would likely involve piling. It thought this would have 
been sufficient to keep the extension stable, despite tree roots reaching a depth of 3m. I 
accept the loss adjusters interpretation of Ns standards and their expert opinion that a piled 
foundation to at least 2.5m would likely have kept the extension stable.
But I havent seen any evidence to show that the extension was subject to these standards. 
The extension wasnt built as part of a new home. And theres been no suggestion from RSA 
or the loss adjuster that Ns standards formed part of building regulations in 2004. There was 
no obligation on the builder to follow Ns standards. So Im not persuaded it would be fair to 
judge the design of the foundation against these standards.
I understand Mr S bought the property after the extension was built and approved. He was 
provided with a certificate of completion from the local authority building control office. The 
certificate says the extension satisfied Building Regulations in 2004.
RSA doesnt agree that Building Regulations were met. I havent seen any evidence from 
building control to accept their certificate was issued in error or was incorrect. RSAs view is 
that Building Regulations required a minimum foundation depth of 450mm and 1m was 
generally considered to be an expected minimum.
The requirements which support Building Regulations  the Approved Documents  were 
updated in 2004. They required a minimum foundation depth of 450mm generally and 
750mm in clay soil (which is the case for Mr S extension). It also said the depth would 
commonly need to be increased to take into account nearby trees. As the foundation was 1m 
deep, it went beyond the minimum requirement at the time of construction.
As the foundation exceeded the requirements of Building Regulations  and received a 
certificate of completion from building control  Im not persuaded its fair for RSA to say they 
werent met. For that reason Im not persuaded RSA has shown the foundation design was 
faulty.
Mr S didnt own the property when the extension was built, so he wasnt involved in its 
design or construction. During the process of buying the house, he received the certificate to 
confirm the structure met Building Regulations. Im satisfied it was reasonable for him to 
understand that meant the extension had been built to an appropriate standard. 
Because of this, Im not satisfied it was fair for RSA to decline the claim. To put things right, 
it should now accept the claim.
The claim was declined in June 2019. Had RSA accepted the claim then, it would have 
avoided a delay in dealing with the problem for Mr S. In the meantime hes lived with 
damage to his extension  and the uncertainty of when it will be dealt with and how it will be 
paid for. So I think it would be fair for RSA to pay compensation. Im satisfied £250 is fair.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.For the reasons above, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
accept the claim
pay £250 compensation
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman