DRN-2378415
The complaint
Miss B complains about The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Societys (NFUs) 
handling of a claim made under her home insurance policy.  
What happened
Miss B had a Home & Lifestyle insurance policy with NFU. This covered her contents and 
buildings, amongst other things.
In early September 2018, Miss B notified NFU that there had been an escape of water at her 
home. NFU appointed a loss adjustor, who visited Miss Bs home just over a week later. And 
within three weeks, NFU notified Miss B they accepted the claim and were awaiting quotes 
for the necessary work from her contractors, as shed agreed with the loss adjustor.
Around a month after that, in late October 2018, Miss Bs representative contacted NFU to 
say Miss B was struggling to organise the work herself for personal reasons. NFU agreed 
their loss adjustor would assist. And at this point they recognised Miss B as a vulnerable 
customer and assigned her a customer care representative.
A month later  in late November 2018  the customer care representative met with Miss B 
to agree next steps. Soon after that, drying out work began at the property and NFU 
appointed a surveyor to scope the work to be covered under the claim.
In mid-December, the contractor appointed for the drying out work reported that one of their 
dehumidifiers electrical plugs showed signs of heat damage. An electrician was appointed 
and after an inspection he said the electrics at Miss Bs home were not fit for use. And he 
said the issues with the electrics werent related to the escape of water claim.
NFU asked Miss B to deal with the issues with the electrics  and put their survey on hold 
until after the necessary work was completed.
Miss B says at this point NFU made an advance payment of £1,000 to her, to allow her to 
pay for the electrical repairs and to be offset against the amount they were to pay for 
replacement of the carpets affected by the escape of water.
In February 2019, the surveyor provided a report setting out the scope of work. And in early 
March, the loss adjustor and surveyor met with Miss B. Shortly after that meeting, a second 
electrical survey was commissioned. This found that there was in fact very little wrong with 
Miss Bs electrics, contrary to the findings of the earlier electrician.
At this point, Miss B also raised an issue about her son  who is autistic  staying in the 
property whilst the building work was going on. There were a number of discussions about 
possible solutions, but the upshot was that NFU paid for alternative accommodation 
(including utility bills) for Miss Bs son  at her request  for the duration of the work on the 
property. The work began in early April 2019 and was completed satisfactorily around 12 
weeks later.
Miss B complained to NFU about their handling of the claim. She felt shed suffered 
inconvenience and stress due to the unnecessary delays.
NFU admitted there had been delays caused by the confusion over the electrics and they 
offered Miss B £200 in compensation for this.
Miss B wasnt happy with that outcome and brought her complaint to us. She believes the 
£200 isnt enough given the degree of inconvenience and distress shes suffered. She also 
says shes lost rent from potential lodgers during the relevant period. And she says her 
business  which is carried on in an outbuilding at the property  has been affected.
Our investigator looked into it and thought NFU needed to give more compensation than 
theyd offered. Her view was that they should pay £400 in total to Miss B for her trouble and 
upset.
And she thought they should pay a £10 per day disturbance allowance for the period 
between the claim being made (in early September 2018) and the start of the alternative 
accommodation (in early April 2019), when Miss Bs son stayed in the property despite it 
being affected by the escape of water. That amounts to just over £2,000 more in addition to 
the £400 compensation.
Miss B disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She thought she 
should be compensated for increases in her annual policy premiums determined by the 
amount NFU eventually paid to get the work done  which is more than the quotes shed 
originally obtained. And she thought the amount of compensation offered wasnt enough.
Its only fair to say at this point that although NFU didnt ask for the case to be referred for a 
final decision, they did raise a number of questions about how the proposed compensation 
was calculated and on what basis.  
Because I took a different view to our investigator, I issued a provisional decision before 
making my final decision. This gave Miss B and NFU the opportunity to provide any further 
information or evidence  and/or to comment on my reasoning  before I make my final 
decision, which is this services last word on the matter.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I should say that a disturbance allowance isnt appropriate in these 
circumstances. Despite the name, a disturbance allowance isnt compensation for 
disturbance or inconvenience. Its compensation for actual costs incurred by a 
consumer as a result of the type of alternative accommodation theyve been housed 
in whilst repairs are carried out or as a result of them choosing to remain in their 
home despite it being without basic amenities.
For example, a disturbance allowance might be appropriate if a consumer were 
moved to alternative accommodation without laundry facilities, meaning they had to 
use a launderette or a washing service. Or if they stayed in their home despite there 
being no cooking facilities and bought take-away meals or ate out.So, what were dealing with here is compensation for the trouble and upset Miss B 
has suffered due to any errors made by NFU. The argument is essentially about how 
much that should be. There is no disturbance allowance to be added to that because 
there were no additional costs incurred either before Miss Bs son moved into 
alternative accommodation or after.
I should also say at the outset that this complaint is almost entirely about the degree 
of compensation Miss B should be paid for the stress and inconvenience caused by 
NFUs errors. There is a slight caveat to that in that Miss B thinks NFU still owe her a 
payment for her carpets  and Ill deal with that in due course. But otherwise theres 
no dispute that NFU rightly accepted the claim and have carried out satisfactorily any 
repairs that were covered.
I also want to clarify two further issues. Although Miss B hasnt referred to these 
when she asked for a final decision and explained why she disagreed with our 
investigators view, she has during the course of her complaint with us suggested 
that NFU should pay her for loss of rent and for losses incurred by her business 
during the relevant period.
Im not entirely sure Miss B is covered for any such losses under her policy, although 
we havent completely clarified this. For one thing, her policy schedule  at the time 
of the escape of water  showed the property was lived in only by Miss B and her 
family. There was no mention of any lodger(s). Miss B amended her particulars to 
include lodgers several days after the claim was made.
However, I dont think we need to get into a forensic examination of Miss Bs policy or 
when it was amended. I say this for two main reasons.
One, Miss B had one lodger at the time of the escape of water. He actually remained 
in the property as lodger  and paid rent  throughout. Miss B says she would have 
rented a further room to a second lodger had the escape of water not occurred.
I have no evidence to suggest that was in hand at the time. And I think it would be 
entirely unfair to ask NFU to compensate Miss B for income she might theoretically 
have had. At the time of the incident, she had one lodger.
Two, Miss Bs business operates from an outbuilding at the property. I cant see any 
reason to believe that outbuilding  or the business  were in any way affected by the 
escape of water.
If Miss B believes it was, she would need to provide evidence to that effect in 
response to this provisional decision. That would be evidence of business earnings 
before the event and afterwards. And an explanation as to how the business was 
impacted.
I should stress, even if Miss B provides that evidence, I would need to consider again 
whether Miss Bs policy actually provides any cover for her business.
Ill turn now to the substantive issue of whether errors by NFU caused Miss B any 
additional distress and inconvenience for which she should be compensated. I bear 
in mind that NFU already offered Miss B £200 to compensate her for the confusion 
about her electrics.Im looking very carefully at the timeline for this claim. It was made in early 
September 2018. And the works were completed by around the end of June 2019. 
Thats around 10 months all told.
The last three months of that period were when the repair works were being carried 
out. And when Miss Bs son was in alternative accommodation. I cant see any 
suggestion that the work could or should have been completed significantly more 
quickly once it had begun.
I cant see any reason to suggest NFU were negligent or slow to deal with the claim 
when it was first made either. Their loss adjustor attended the property and met with 
Miss B within days. Their report was received relatively quickly by NFU. And 
confirmation the claim was accepted  and NFU were waiting for Miss Bs quotes  
was sent soon after that.
It wasnt then until towards the end of October 2018 that Miss Bs representative 
advised NFU Miss B was struggling to organise the work herself. So, up to that point 
 around two months after the claim was made, I cant see that NFU made any errors 
which may have delayed the claim and the repair work.
At that point  and despite recognising Miss B as a vulnerable customer  it took 
NFU a further month to arrange a first meeting between Miss B and her customer 
care representative. In the circumstances, I cant see any real excuse for that delay 
on NFUs part. And the claim wasnt being moved on in the meantime. So, I think 
theres around a months delay there that NFU are responsible for.
The claim then progressed quite reasonably until late December, when the first 
electrician said Miss Bs electrics werent fit for purpose. That electrician was 
inspecting the property on behalf of NFU and/or their contractors. And it seems 
everyone agrees the later inspection showed that hed made an error.
It was around two months later that NFU made any further progress at all with the 
claim. The second electricians report was received in early March 2019. After that, 
things seem to have got back on track and  after the surveyor completed his work  
the repairs were begun in early April 2019.
So, of the ten months it took from the initial claim to completion of the works, I think 
there were three months of unnecessary delays for which NFU are responsible. 
These delays were caused either by NFU being slow to meet Miss B after shed been 
identified as vulnerable or by the hiatus caused by the first electricians error.
The rest of the period is accounted for by the time it took to actually complete the 
repair work (3 months), the time when Miss B was trying to obtain quotes and 
organise the work (around a month), the initial inspection and decision on the claim 
(around a month) and by the reasonable time taken by the loss adjustors and 
surveyor to agree the scope of works and other arrangements with Miss B (around 
two months all told).
If there are any delays in those particular periods, theyre not NFUs fault. For 
example, they cant have known that Miss B was struggling to organise quotes etc. 
until they were told  about a month after it was agreed shed do that.
Miss B has said she felt pressured into agreeing initially to seek her own quotes for 
the work. I cant see any evidence to support that. And I dont believe anyone is disputing that the outcome of the first meeting with the loss adjustor was that Miss B 
would take those next steps herself.
It is inevitable that anyone who suffers the kind of escape of water Miss B did is 
going to suffer some inconvenience and stress whilst the damage is put right. NFU 
didnt cause the escape of water and they cant be blamed for the trouble that caused 
Miss B. But they can and should take responsibility if that period of distress and 
inconvenience was made any longer than it need have been by their own mistakes or 
omissions.
As I say, Im currently minded to hold NFU responsible for three months of delays  
and so three months of additional trouble and upset to Miss B and her family  which 
resulted from their (or their contractors) mistakes and/or slowness in dealing with this 
claim.
I now have to ask myself what degree of inconvenience and distress Miss B and her 
family suffered for that additional three months.
Although some rooms were effectively out of action after the escape of water, Miss B 
and her family (and lodger) continued to have bathroom and kitchen facilities 
available. I have no doubt it was disruptive to live in the circumstances in which they 
found themselves  and I take into account that Miss B has referred to a damp smell 
throughout this period - but they werent without any basic amenities and continued 
to have a bedroom each.
Im aware that Miss B has now suggested that her son should have been in 
alternative accommodation throughout  and that NFU should compensate them for 
his suffering during the periods he remained in the house.
I can appreciate that this may not have been an enjoyable time for Miss B and her 
son, but I have to ask myself whether NFU acted reasonably and fairly given what 
they knew at the time.
Ive seen photographs of Miss Bs sons room after the escape of water. There are 
some signs of paint damage from dampness in the adjoining room, but theres no 
mould, for example, nor any structural issues. So, on the face of it, until the repair 
work commenced, it appears inhabitable.
If it werent, Id have expected Miss B to raise this with NFU from the outset  and to 
persist in doing so until her son were moved out. I cant see any evidence that was 
the case. In fact, it appears the request for alternative accommodation only came 
about because of the disruption the building work would cause  which would have 
disturbed Miss Bs son all the more because of his condition.
Once the issue was raised, I can see NFU entered into discussions with Miss B 
about what the best solution might be. And those on-going discussions were to a 
great extent dictated by Miss Bs thoughts and requirements. Once shed decided 
alternative accommodation would be best, NFU appear to have acted quickly to get it 
sorted.
In summary, Miss B and her son lived in a house which needed repair work for 
around three months longer than they should have done had NFU dealt with the 
claim as efficiently as might be expected.That house wasnt lacking in basic amenities  or in bedrooms for all the occupants. 
There was a degree of inconvenience and distress  for example, caused by having 
to share one less bathroom  but the house was inhabitable without any large degree 
of discomfort.
That said, I also have to take into account the stress Miss B was no doubt caused for 
a period of around two months when she thought  wrongly as it turned out, but 
entirely because of an error by NFUs electrician  that the electrical wiring in her 
house was faulty and needed extensive repair work.
Ive also taken into account the fact that Miss B was recognised as a vulnerable 
customer by NFU. And Ive considered her sons condition, which no doubt made the 
disruption and inconvenience all the more impactful.
Taking all of that into account, I think £750 in total  rather than the £200 offered by 
NFU  would be appropriate compensation for Miss Bs trouble and upset.
In addition, Miss B has provided copies of an email exchange with NFU after the first 
electrician had reported that she needed to have work done on her electrics. I think 
Miss B had told NFU she might not be able to afford the electrical work.
I believe NFU were being helpful at the time. They offered to advance £1,000 to 
Miss B, which she could use to get the electrical work carried out. This was to be 
offset against any later payment for her carpet(s). I assume NFU were confident at 
that point that a payment was to be made to cover replacement of Miss Bs carpet(s).
I cant be sure from the evidence we have on file, but it appears Miss B spent that 
money on electrical work which wasnt necessary. It also appears NFU have since 
told Miss B theyve already covered replacement of her carpet(s) by advancing the 
£1,000 for the electrical work.
If that is the case, Im minded to instruct NFU to now pay Miss B for her carpet(s). 
She shouldnt be disadvantaged in that part of her claim because she took an 
advance payment to ensure she could pay for electrical work that wasnt in fact 
necessary.
I should stress that if Miss B or NFU have any further information or evidence about 
this particular aspect of Miss Bs complaint, they should provide it in response to this 
provisional decision.
Finally, I can understand why Miss B is annoyed that her annual premiums have 
gone up since she made this claim. However, that will happen because the 
calculation of risk made by any insurer will take into account previous claims. Miss B 
thinks NFU might have done the repair work more cheaply  so affecting her 
premiums less.
Im not sure that is necessarily the case, but even if it were, theres no real surprise 
that the cost of settling this claim to NFU  as it panned out  came to more than 
Miss Bs original contractors quote. This is especially so since NFU have had to pay 
significant alternative accommodation costs.
And on that basis, I said I was minded to instruct NFU to pay Miss B £750 compensation for 
her trouble and upset and pay for her replacement carpets.
The responses to my provisional decisionNFU responded to my provisional decision. They said the £1,000 advance payment they 
made to Miss B wasnt in fact spent on any unnecessary electrical work, as far as they were 
aware. It was therefore available to Miss B as part of the settlement - and could and should 
have been used to replace her carpets.
They also provided a timeline from their loss adjustor which showed that, in November 2018, 
after theyd identified Miss B as a vulnerable customer, they did try to get in touch with 
Miss B  on several occasions - and arrange a meeting as soon as practically possible.
I think NFU are at least implying  although they dont say so directly  that the fact the 
meeting took place a full month after theyd identified Miss B as vulnerable wasnt entirely 
due to inaction on their part.
Miss B responded to my provisional decision at some length. I wont rehearse the detail of all 
of her comments here, but Ill try to summarise them without losing the essence.
Im grateful to Miss B for confirming that she did in fact spend the £1,000 NFU advanced to 
her on carpets. And she didnt have any unnecessary electrical work carried out.
She now says the £1,000 wasnt sufficient to buy replacement carpets of the same quality as 
her old ones. She believes she saved NFU money by settling for replacement carpets of 
lesser quality.
Miss B says the dehumidifiers arrived at her property in mid-September 2018, not late 
November. And she reported the heat damage to the plug, not the contractors.
She says the original plans for the strip out werent sufficient and more work was eventually 
needed than NFU estimated at the outset.
Miss B said my provisional decision said the scope of works was set out in February 2019. 
But she says NFU carried out surveys  including an electrical survey and an asbestos 
survey  in March 2019.
She says she suffered considerable worry and stress between December 2018 and 
March 2019 because she believed she had a fundamental problem with the electrics at her 
property based on the first electricians report. She implies the full extent of this stress and 
worry hasnt been taken in to account.
Miss B says she spent considerable time and effort finding suitable alternative 
accommodation for her son after NFU failed to do so.
She says she provided proof that she usually had two lodgers in her property. And she 
updated her policy to include cover for loss of rent from her lodgers when it was renewed. 
She says her mother handled the purchase of the policy originally and had simply forgotten 
to include cover for rental income, which was a simple oversight.
Miss B says her quotes for the work were considerably cheaper than the eventual costs to 
NFU. And shes still unhappy about the effect this has had on her annual premium.
Miss B agreed that she hadnt lost money from her business during the relevant period. But 
she says she had to work outside her normal hours  late into the evenings at times  
because of time spent dealing with her claim and the repair work. She thinks this hasnt been 
taken fully into account when I thought about the degree of stress and inconvenience she 
suffered.Miss B thinks Ive miscalculated the amount of time lost due to NFUs errors during the 10 
months it took for the repairs to be completed. At one point in her response, she says she 
thinks its four months (November 2018, December 2018, January 2019, February 2019), not 
three. At another point, she says the work could have been completed by Xmas  i.e. within 
less than four months of the escape of water  which would imply NFU were responsible for 
around 6 months of delay.
Miss B maintains she was bullied into agreeing to get her contractors to quote for the work 
at the outset of the claim.
She says the only bathroom which was in working order for a period of time was her en-
suite. She says the three other bathrooms in the house had connected plumbing and all 
were out of action until she had a temporary fix carried out to one of the other bathrooms. 
Again, she thinks the degree of inconvenience this caused wasnt taken into account in my 
provisional decision.
Miss B says she didnt ask for her son to be in alternative accommodation throughout the 
time after the claim and before the repair work was completed. She thinks my provisional 
decision implied that she did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again at the evidence we had on file before I issued my provisional decision. And 
Ive carefully considered the new comments and information provided by NFU and Miss B.
Im grateful to both NFU and Miss B for clarifying the situation regarding the carpets and the 
£1,000 advance payment. Miss B has confirmed the money was spent on carpets and not on 
unnecessary electrical work. So, Im not going to ask NFU to provide a further settlement to 
cover the carpets now.
I understand what Miss B says about the price and quality of the replacement carpets. 
However, it seems to me she accepted the settlement at the time and has spent it  on what 
it was intended to cover.
Because of the Financial Conduct Authority rules (the Dispute Resolution, or DISP, rules) 
which set out the way we operate, we can only look at complaints a customer has already 
made to a financial business. The idea being that the business has a chance to resolve 
matters to the customers satisfaction before we become involved.
It doesnt appear to me - from NFUs final response letter to Miss B  that Miss B has ever 
raised a complaint with NFU that they didnt cover the reasonable cost of replacing her 
carpets. Nor did she raise this in her original complaint to us.
Miss B would be entitled to make a new complaint to NFU about this specific issue. And then 
to bring it to us if she wasnt satisfied with NFUs response. But Im not going to look at it as 
part of this decision. 
I dont wish in any way to discourage Miss B from making a new complaint. But I think its fair 
to say now that if she were to raise that issue in future, she might be asked to explain why 
she didnt raise it at the time she originally accepted the settlement offered by NFU.There are some parts of Miss Bs response to my provisional decision which are helpful, in 
that they clarify what actually happened, but arent really relevant to the calculation of how 
much delay to the repairs NFUs errors might have caused.
The exact date on which the dehumidifier was delivered to Miss Bs house, for example, isnt 
as relevant as the date at which the drying out work ceased because of the first electricians 
report. Nor is it really significant that Miss B reported the damaged plug rather than the 
contractors. And the fact that NFU carried out surveys in March 2019 doesnt contradict my 
assertion  in my provisional decision  that NFU had a scope of works in hand by the end of 
February 2019.
I also accept that Miss B didnt ask for alternative accommodation for her son from the outset 
of the claim. My provisional decision (as above) actually said Miss B had now asked that 
NFU pay her the amount alternative accommodation would have cost if provided from the 
outset. If thats also my misunderstanding, I apologise to Miss B, but it isnt relevant to the 
outcome of this case.
Im also grateful to Miss B for confirming that her business didnt lose any money during the 
time between the claim being made and the repairs being completed.
Ive thought again about the degree of trouble and upset Miss B suffered during the ten 
months between September 2018 and June 2019. I have no doubt this was a very difficult 
time for Miss B  and her son. And I can appreciate that she struggled to maintain a normal 
home life  and continue her business  whilst the situation was on-going.
However, I did take that into account in my provisional decision. And thats why I suggested 
NFU should pay Miss B £750 in compensation rather than the £200 they originally offered. 
I also took into account the worry caused to Miss B when she thought her electrics were 
faulty and needed significant work  as I said very clearly in my provisional decision. 
And I had it in mind at the time that Miss B found the alternative accommodation for her son 
 at some effort and inconvenience to herself.
I also took into account the fact that there was only one functioning bathroom at the property 
for a period of time  although as Miss B herself says in her response to my provisional 
decision, this wasnt the full ten months it took for the repair work to be completed. 
Miss B also questioned whether the assumption  set out in my provisional decision  that 
NFU were responsible for three months of avoidable delay was correct. She thought it 
should be considerably more  either 4 months or 6 months (see above). I havent changed 
my view on that. Ill explain why.
Im not holding NFU responsible for the two months at the outset of the claim when they 
responded quickly to the claim and then agreed Miss B would seek quotes for the repair 
work.
Miss B said originally she felt pressured into agreeing to seek quotes. Shes now described 
herself as being bullied into doing so. As I said in my provisional decision, we have no 
evidence to support that allegation. Miss B didnt complain at the time. She accepts she did 
agree to get quotes. Asking a customer to obtain quotes isnt uncommon or inherently unfair.
So, as I said in my provisional decision, Im not going to blame NFU for any delays up to the 
end of October 2018, when it was reported to them that Miss B was struggling to get quotes 
and/or manage the stress of dealing with the claim.March 2019 was spent in finalising the scope of works and  as Miss B points out  carrying 
out surveys of the property which were necessary before the work started. It started in April 
and no-one has suggested it took longer than necessary to complete once it had started.
So, there are no unnecessary or unreasonable delays after the start of March 2019.
That leaves the period between November 2018 and February 2019. Four months  and Im 
holding NFU responsible for three months delays.
I appreciate that NFUs loss adjustors were trying to contact Miss B in November 2018, but I 
still think its unreasonable to have a delay of a month between designating a customer as 
vulnerable and finally meeting with her to discuss the progress of her claim.
Miss B says in her response that if NFU had acted promptly, the repairs could have been 
completed by Xmas  so, in less than four months. Given that the actual building work took 
three months, I think thats beyond optimistic. 
NFU were entitled to take time to assess the claim properly and to plan the work. And I think 
its unreasonable to suggest that insurers should be able to deploy contractors at the drop of 
a hat. There are lead-in times and contractors may not be available immediately.
In saying NFU are responsible for three months of unnecessary delay between November 
2018 and February 2019, Im allowing them only one month to re-assess the electrical 
reports, resolve any issues about the planned repairs with Miss B, scope and plan the work 
and carry out the administration associated with all of that. I dont think thats unreasonable 
or unfair. 
So, in summary, nothing Miss B or NFU has said in response to my PD has changed my 
mind about the degree of trouble and upset caused to Miss B  which Ive no doubt was 
considerable  or the amount of time effectively wasted between the date of the claim and 
the repairs being completed. And I remain of the view that £750 is reasonable and fair 
compensation, taking all of the circumstances into account.
Ill turn now to Miss Bs argument that she should be compensated for loss of rental income 
during the relevant period.
Im again grateful to Miss B for confirming what actually happened. She made her claim on 6 
September 2018. At that time, her policy didnt cover rental income. And her statement of 
fact, given when she took out the policy, said that only she and family members lived that the 
property.
On 10 September 2018  four days after making the claim  Miss B updated her policy to 
include cover for rental income and to state that she had lodgers living at the property.
I remain unconvinced that Miss B can establish she lost any income at all. She had one 
lodger at the time she made the claim. He stayed at the property and paid rent throughout.
Miss B says she would have had two lodgers. However, thats entirely irrelevant given the 
nature and scope of the policy she had in place at the time of the claim. In short, she wasnt 
covered for any loss of rental income at the time she made the claim. 
No-one would expect to crash their car, take out a vehicle insurance policy several days 
later, and have the insurance company pick up the bill for repairs to their car. To put it 
bluntly, thats precisely the situation Miss B is in here. She wasnt covered at the relevant 
time.To her credit, Miss B has been entirely open about this situation. She says her mother 
handled the purchase of the policy  and it was an oversight on her part not to include cover 
for rental income.
Its Miss Bs policy. Shes responsible for it  and she was made aware at the outset that she 
was responsible for checking the details given to NFU and for checking that the policy was 
right for her. 
To be absolutely clear, she didnt buy cover for loss of rental income  at least not until after 
the claim was made. So, NFU arent under any obligation to meet a claim for such a loss  
even if there was an oversight when the policy was taken out.
In response to my provisional decision, Miss B also raises again the increase in her annual 
premiums. Im not going to add to what I said in my provisional decision. It isnt a surprise 
the premiums have gone up. Im sure NFU tried to keep the cost of the repairs as low as 
possible. They would have no interest in escalating the cost just so they could charge a 
higher annual premium. And theres no evidence to suggest they mis-managed the repair 
work in any way 
Putting things right
My provisional decision said NFU should pay Miss B £750 in compensation and pay for the 
replacement of her carpets.
Clearly, for the reasons set out above, Im not going to ask NFU to pay (again) for Miss Bs 
carpets. Theyve already done so.
However, Im still convinced NFU were responsible for around three months unnecessary 
delay in the repairs to Miss Bs home  which caused her three additional unnecessary 
months of trouble and upset. And I remain satisfied that £750 in total is fair and reasonable 
compensation for that.
For the avoidance of any doubt at all, that £750 is not in addition to the £200 previously 
offered to Miss B by NFU. As I understand it, Miss B anyway never accepted that £200 and it 
hasnt been paid to her. But my decision is that NFU give Miss B £750 in total.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Bs complaint.
The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited must pay Miss B £750 in 
compensation for her trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman