DRN-3494042
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc:
- has inaccurately recorded his mortgage account on his credit file;
- could have done more to support him in recent years with his mortgage;
- unfairly withheld a lower interest rate on the mortgage since October 2019 and 
made him a mortgage prisoner.
Mr M says Bank of Scotlands actions have caused him financial hardship and prevented
him buying a new property.
What happened
Mr M has an interest only mortgage with BoS. In 2011 Mr Ms mortgage account fell into 
arrears.
In May 2013 repossession court proceedings went ahead. At that point, the mortgage 
arrears were recorded as being around £10,000. A possession order was issued by a court, 
which was suspended subject to Mr M maintaining payment towards the arrears and the 
mortgage loan.
In 2021 Mr M wanted to take out a new mortgage with his partner to buy a different property. 
However, when he came to apply, he found that mortgage arrears were being recorded on 
his credit file. Mr M was unhappy that this prevented him being able to get the mortgage he 
wanted from other lenders. 
Mr M complained to BoS in 2021. He said BoS had been incorrectly recording his mortgage 
account on his credit file in recent years. He says hes been up to date with his interest 
payments and yet his credit file shows that he is behind with his mortgage payments.
Mr M also complained about the level of support that BoS has given him in recent years, and 
whether it has unfairly withheld lower interest rates from him and made him a mortgage 
prisoner.
BoS responded to Mr Ms complaint about these issues on 30 July 2021. BoS didnt think 
that it had made a mistake in the way it had reported his mortgage on Mr Ms credit file, and 
said it had taken reasonable steps to provide Mr M with support in recent years with his 
mortgage.
Mr M didnt agree and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt think Mr 
Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed and asked that an ombudsman reach a 
final decision on the matter.
I issued a jurisdiction decision on 23 May 2022 setting out the parts of Mr Ms complaint that 
we can consider now and why. I considered that Mr Ms complaint about how BoS had 
recorded his mortgage on his credit file, the support it has given to him in recent years and 
whether it has given Mr M fair access to interest rates since October 2019 were matters that 
we can investigate now. Other historic issues that Mr M had brought to us, where BoS had 
given previous final responses and Mr M hadnt referred the matter to us within six months, 
were out of time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ms complaint and why he feels his mortgage has been 
incorrectly recorded on his credit file. Id like to reassure Mr M that I understand the 
argument that Mr M is making and why he considers this matter to be unfair. 
Mr M hasnt disputed that his mortgage has been in arrears for the past decade. Since the 
suspended possession order (SPO) Mr M has been gradually reducing the mortgage arrears 
by paying regular additional amounts on top of his mortgage interest payments. And this has 
come about as a result of a series of discussions with BoS when a payment arrangement 
expires, and an assessment of his position at that time and what payment in addition to the 
interest is affordable to him. 
This process has led to his arrears reducing from a level of around £10,000 in 2013 to 
around £5,000 at the time BoS issued its final response in 2021.
Mr M says that while he has maintained his interest payments in full each month and made 
contributions towards the arrears for years, he feels it shouldnt be recorded that he is 
behind with his mortgage payments. I see the point that Mr M is making and why he feels it 
is incorrect to record that he has missed payments. However, the recording of Mr Ms 
mortgage payment history isnt just about whether payments have been missed. It is also 
intended to capture whether a mortgage is in arrears, and this is quantified as how many 
cumulative payments Mr Ms mortgage arrears equate to. 
However, BoS has a duty to record a true and accurate representation of Mr Ms mortgage 
conduct to the credit reference agencies. I have looked at what has been recorded for Mr 
Ms mortgage and I dont consider there has been a mistake made. BoS has recorded that 
Mr Ms mortgage is in arrears. It seems to me that BoS has shared a true and accurate 
representation of Mr Ms mortgage, as it is obliged to do. 
Mr M has also said that BoS should have done more over the years to support him. Im 
aware that more recently, while this complaint has been investigated by us, Mr M has 
capitalised the arrears on his mortgage. This involves BoS agreeing to increase the overall 
balance of Mr Ms mortgage to incorporate the arrears balance. This means that from the 
date the arrears were capitalised, Mr Ms mortgage will no longer be recorded as being in 
arrears. And this will have a favourable impact on his credit file going forward.
Ive thought carefully about whether BoS could have done more to support Mr M before, 
including by making him aware that consolidation of arrears was an option before. Im aware 
that if Mr M had chosen to consolidate his mortgage arrears before this could have had a 
positive impact on his credit file and made it easier for him to get access to new interest rate 
products with BoS or get another mortgage with another lender. 
Ive looked at the detailed history of contact between BoS and Mr M to see what discussions 
have taken place in recent years. I wanted to see if BoS had taken reasonable steps to 
explain to Mr Ms what options were available to him regarding repaying his arrears more 
quickly or consolidating the arrears. Having done so, Im satisfied that BoS did take reasonable steps to explore Mr Ms financial 
position with him on a regular basis. I also consider it tried to explain the impact on Mr Ms 
credit file if he was to capitalise the mortgage arrears. The contact history records that BoS 
let Mr M know that he may be eligible to capitalise his mortgage arrears on a number of 
occasions; most recently in July 2021, January 2021 and June 2020. And in both June 2020 
and July 2021 BoS notes say that Mr M was told that his mortgage being in arrears would 
adversely impact his credit file. 
BoS also said Mr M wouldnt need to set up new payment arrangements on a regular basis 
or answer questions about his income and expenditure if he chose to capitalise arrears. 
However, it seems from the notes that Mr M wasnt keen to explore these options further and 
he simply wanted to keep the same arrangement going. 
I can understand why Mr M may have become frustrated over the years by BoS contacting 
him to set up a new arrangement each time the previous one expired. And I see why Mr M 
may not have wanted to regularly complete a detailed breakdown of his income and 
outgoings with BoS. However, I dont think it was unreasonable of BoS to ask for this 
information, not least as it had a duty to check that Mr Ms arrangements to repay the arrears 
continued to be affordable for him. Overall, I dont consider that BoS failed to support Mr M 
to repay his mortgage arrears or that it acted inappropriately in its interactions with him.
Mr M has said that he feels BoS has made him a mortgage prisoner. In summary, from Mr 
Ms submissions it seems he feels hes been withheld a lower interest rate and he asks that 
BoS retrospectively gives him a lower interest rate for his mortgage in recent years. As I set 
out in my jurisdiction decision Mr M has complained about this issue before. And Im only 
able to consider this part of his complaint from 2019. 
I havent found evidence that indicates that BoS has unreasonably withheld new interest rate 
products from Mr M from 2019. From that time to the date this complaint was made, Mr Ms 
mortgage was in arrears. From my wider knowledge of the mortgage market, its 
commonplace for a mortgage in arrears to be considered not up to date. Similarly, the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys reports and industry analysis about customers who find 
themselves unable to get access to lower interest rate products from active lenders excludes 
data about mortgage customers who arent up to date with their mortgage. 
Most mortgage lenders typically expect a mortgage account to be up to date before they 
would look to make an interest rate product available - unless a reduction in interest rate was 
specifically agreed as part of a tailored forbearance plan to help get a mortgage back on 
track. 
I dont consider that BoS acted unfairly by continuing to apply the BoS Home Loan Rate to 
this mortgage from 2019, as per the terms and conditions of the mortgage and I dont uphold 
this part of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman