DRN-3587916
The complaint
Mr R complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension plan.
DC Financial Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to DCFL.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Rs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr R was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to DCFL 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time were broadly as follows:
Mr R was 48 years old, married and at the time had no-one financially dependent on 
him. He was in good health and at that point he had accrued around 25 years of 
pension benefits with the BSPS.
Mr R earned around £36,000 per year and lived in a home valued at approximately 
£80,000, which had an outstanding mortgage of around £36,000 with 9 years 11 
months left to run. Mr R had disposable income each month of over £800 and no 
recorded savings.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Rs BSPS was recorded on the 
transfer analysis as £343,915 (the amount transferred was ultimately £355,129) and 
the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. DCFLs transfer analysis also said Mr Rs 
desired retirement age was 55. 
DCFL set out its advice in a suitability letter and report on 29 August 2017. Mr R signed to 
say hed read the letter on 5 September 2017. It advised him to transfer out of the BSPS and 
invest the funds in a personal pension plan. DCFL said this would allow Mr R to achieve his 
objectives. Mr R accepted this advice and so transferred to a personal pension in October 
2017. In 2021 Mr R complained to DCFL about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr R referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, DCFL said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr R had at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DCFL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, DCFL should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Rs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Rs best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint. 
Financial viability 
DCFL referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. In this case, DCFL used the existing scheme (BSPS) for the critical yield 
comparisons, rather than the new BSPS2, details of which were emerging at the time. 
However, I think its fair to say that despite some uncertainty at the time, the BSPS2 critical 
yields were likely to be between the BSPS and PPF yields, but most likely much closer to the 
existing scheme (BSPS).I also think its important to point out that DCFL itself acknowledged, during its advice, that 
the critical yields required to match the benefits of Mr Rs existing scheme were high. It said 
in its suitability report, the critical yield required is high and it would be very unlikely that an 
investment could provide a return to match the benefits you are giving up. It explained the 
critical yield required to match his existing benefits at the age of 65 was 6.33%; and it was 
11.71% compared against retirement at the age of 55.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The relevant discount rate was 4.3% per year for 16 years to retirement (age 65), which is 
well below the critical yield figures Ive referred to above. For a retirement at 55, the discount 
rate was only 3.3%. 
This infers that reaching the critical yields above would be unlikely. And there would be little 
point in transferring if Mr R was likely to receive lower pension benefits in the longer term.
However, Ive also considered some other issues. Ive also kept in mind, for instance, that 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time of the advice was 8%, the middle projection 
rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. DCFL said Mr Rs attitude to risk (ATR) 
was cautious, so I think a growth assumption near to the regulators lower projection was 
appropriate here, and so even lower than the discount rate. At just 2%, this was substantially 
below the critical yields Ive set out above.
Of course, all this could be said to be of limited relevance since DCFL itself said at the time 
the critical yields were very unlikely to be achieved. And so, having said this back in 2017, it 
would be hard for DCFL to argue now that these types of growth figures were viewed as 
achievable at the time. 
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, DCFL showed some figures to Mr R that implied hed be 
able to have an income from his transferred funds well into his old age. But these werent 
making like-for-like comparisons with the scheme he could join (BSPS2) as the benefits and 
guarantees associated with a DB pension were being lost. 
DCFL also made mention of the PPF, which it described as a compensation scheme 
providing a safety net for pension schemes when the sponsoring employer becomes 
insolvent. DCFL said the critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 
65 was 3.75% per year if Mr R took a pension under the reduced terms of the PPF and 
3.32% if he took the same PPF option together with a tax-free lump sum. 
But these yields related to the reduced benefits available with the PPF and DCFL itself says 
Mr R wouldnt have wanted to transfer to this scheme. Its also important to remember here 
that the effect of charges and fees associated with a personal pension would have further 
reduced the likely growth.
As a further comparison, I can also see that DCFLs transfer analysis showed that in order to 
purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the existing scheme at retirement 
at age 65, the funds required would be around £805,051  far in excess of Mr Rs current 
CETV. Even in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the 
estimated benefits of the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in 
payment and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required was still £485,650. In my view, these costs provide a revealing window into the real value Mr R would lose if he 
transferred out to a personal pension plan.
However, to be clear, DCFLs recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not predicated on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. 
Rather, DCFL said Mr R had different reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the 
other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite 
providing the overall lower benefits mentioned above. 
Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and other needs
DCFL recommended a transfer to a personal pension based on what it said were Mr Rs 
wider objectives. Ive used the suitability report, fact-find and other documents from the time 
of the advice to summarise the following themes as supporting the recommendation to 
transfer away:
Mention was made several times throughout the advice of Mr R retiring early if 
possible, at 55. DCFL said he could pay off his mortgage due to the flexibility of a 
personal pension arrangement. 
Mr R wanted personal control over his pension.
There would be better and more flexible access to death benefits in a personal 
pension plan.
The future of the BSPS was a concern and hed lost trust in the company. Mr R didnt 
want to enter the PPF. 
So, it seems the supporting reasons that DCFL recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr R. I have therefore considered all 
these issues in turn. 
Retiring early / paying off his mortgage
DCFL mentioned that Mr R had said he wanted to retire early but I think this was no more 
than a stock objective used to help add legitimacy to the recommendation to transfer away.  
I dont doubt that Mr R might have genuinely hoped to retire as early as 55, but it was also 
made clear that he may well work longer. So, Ive seen nothing that shows this was anything 
more than what he aspired to do at that stage, as opposed to being part of a formulated 
plan. I say this because Mr R was only 48 years old at the time and he didnt have any 
concrete plans for retirement at that point. 
DCFL also promoted to Mr R that he could access more tax-free cash if he transferred to a 
personal pension plan and he could also do this without starting to draw his pension. It said 
hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum and then use the remaining funds 
more flexibly. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal 
pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of 
the two schemes are calculated differently. But extra tax-free lump sums being removed 
from a personal pension, potentially from the age of 55 in his case, also came with 
consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would obviously 
decrease. Even if I were to consider the unlikely scenario that Mr Rs retirement plans were more fixed 
than the mere aspirations set out by DCFL - and he really did want to retire early - I think 
DCFL should have assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst being a member of 
the BSPS2, for example. Early retirement under the BSPS2, or indeed the PPF, would still 
have been an option for Mr R, although this would have meant Mr Rs pension benefits 
would have been somewhat different due to him accessing the pension earlier and for 
longer. I think its likely there were discussions about this, but I think this was discounted by 
DCFL and portrayed very negatively. The advice simply focussed on him transferring away 
completely.
So, whilst I accept the notion of retiring early and / or accessing tax-free cash might have 
been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other options Mr R faced, 
including opting for the BSPS2. I cant see that Mr R required flexibility in retirement in the 
way DCFL suggested, which in any case, was poorly defined. 
In fact, it seems DCFL and Mr R himself could only estimate the amount hed need to live on 
in retirement, because it was still a while away yet. So, in my view this was most likely no 
more than an educated guess at that point in time as up to 16 more years could elapse 
before his NRA. Nevertheless, his income needs in retirement were recorded as being 
around £1,200 per month (although no analysis or information backs this up in any way). 
On the other hand, DCFL only referred to his estimated BSPS annual pension (rather than 
the BSPS2). It said that upon reaching the NRA this was likely to be £21,838 per year (or 
£11,874 at the age of 55). So, it seems to me that if Mr R wanted around £1,200 (net) per 
month, these values were not demonstrably outside his needs especially as DCFL doesnt 
seem to have considered either Mrs Rs financial situation, such as her earnings or a 
pension, or their other sources of income, which I come on to below. As Ive said above, I 
think these pension values would have been broadly comparable if transferring to the 
BSPS2 (although DCFL didnt take the opportunity to wait what would have only been a few 
weeks to find out the full details about BSPS2). And as a DB pension this would be 
guaranteed and index linked. 
Put another way, I certainly havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr R wouldnt have 
been able to meet his likely retirement income needs by accessing his DB pension instead of 
transferring out to a personal pension plan. 
Mr R would have also already almost finished his mortgage repayments when he reached 
55. So, DCFL heavily basing its rationale for the transfer on him using the money to help pay 
off his mortgage was very poor advice indeed, in my view. Our investigator summed this up 
well: what would be the point in irreversibly transferring away from a DB scheme to pay 
down a very small mortgage  in a very low interest rate environment  which had only two 
years left to run? If theyd really wanted to, Mr and Mrs R could have also used some of their 
disposable monthly income they currently enjoyed to pay this mortgage off completely before 
Mr R retired, and I think the cost of this would have been modest. No other debt was 
recorded on the fact-find.
As well as retirement potentially still being some time away, we know Mr R had already 
joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme and would have been making 
contributions to it for up to 16 years more, until he retired. Mr Rs contributions to this 
second pension were being added to by his employer and I think theres every reason to 
say that by retirement  whenever it came  there would have been a substantial amount in 
this DC pension to complement his deferred DB scheme (in BSPS2). 
I think therefore, that by retirement, Mr R could have been in a good position if hed 
transferred to the BSPS2. On one hand hed have had a long-standing DB pension, but one with all the guarantees and benefits this type of scheme brought. And on the other hand, 
hed have built up a DC pension over several more years, which, if he later found he did 
require flexibility, this pension could have provided it.
I have therefore considered what DCFL said about retiring early and the potential flexibility 
brought about by transferring to a personal plan: it implied this would include how funds were 
invested, the level of income he could withdraw from it and a greater ability to flexibly use the 
tax-free lump sum element. 
However, I dont think recommending a transfer-out based on these reasons was suitable 
because he was still quite young in pension terms, and little was known about what his 
retirement would look like. DCFL also implied that Mr R would be able to have complete 
control over the pension if he transferred out. But Ive seen nothing which shows Mr R had 
either the desire or capacity to exercise personal control over his pension. Mr Rs previous 
exposure to investing was not really known and he had no such investments at the time of 
his own. 
So, I think Mr Rs circumstances were much more aligned to him transferring to BSPS2 and 
retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so, and then drawing a DB pension. 
Because he also had a second, DC pension, this supported that strategy, in my view. 
I therefore think the much more suitable option was for Mr R to access his DB pension in the 
way it was originally intended. Using this, together with his other assets put him in a good 
retirement position, when it eventually came.
Death benefits 
DCFL implies that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension would 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr R died. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr R. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr R might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think DCFL explored to what 
extent Mr R was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
Mr R was only 48 and was married. So, I think the likely death benefits attached to the DB 
scheme were substantially underplayed. The spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 
would have been very useful to Mrs R if Mr R predeceased her. I dont think DCFL made the 
value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was. 
I also cant see whether, or the extent to which, life insurance was discussed in this case. 
But at 48 years old and in good health, a modest term life insurance policy may have still 
been a reasonably affordable product if Mr R really did want to leave a legacy for Mrs R or 
someone else such as a close relative over a shorter period. But more so, it doesnt appear 
that DCFL took into account the fact that Mr R could have nominated a beneficiary of any 
funds remaining in his other DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr R already had plenty of options 
ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him.However, a more obvious drawback with a personal plan death benefits is that the amount 
left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the pensioner starts to 
withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr R had lived a long life there could 
be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. 
I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal pension 
justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R. I think this objective was no more 
than a generic comment and not meaningful to Mr Rs situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr R, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
DCFL said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and 
DCFL said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr R was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was DCFLs obligation to give Mr R an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were emerging and it seemed 
likely it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated Mr Rs concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that DCFL 
should have reassured Mr R that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr R through the PPF would still have probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension 
charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns should have led to DCFLs recommendation to Mr R to transfer out of a DB 
scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr R. But DCFL 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr R might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By transferring to a personal 
pension, the evidence shows Mr R was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. I think DCFL ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for 
this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Rs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr R still had a 
few years before he could retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his interests to 
accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't necessarily have been offset by the more favourable reduction for very early 
retirement. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr R would have retained the ability to transfer out of 
the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr R was married and there 
were valuable death benefits to remaining a member of a DB scheme, such as the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think DCFL should have advised Mr R to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr R would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that DCFL disclosed some of the 
risks of transferring to Mr R, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr R to transfer out, and I think Mr R relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr R would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against DCFLs advice. I say this because Mr R was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if DCFL had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Rs concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying a substantial amount for, didnt think it was 
suitable for him or in his best interests. So if DCFL had explained Mr R was also unlikely to 
exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could 
meet his income needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that 
would have carried significant weight.
In light of the above, I am upholding this complaint. I think DCFL should compensate Mr R 
for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress 
methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for DCFLs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal retirement age 
of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. DCFL should use the benefits 
offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr R whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. He would like 
the complaint to be settled in line with new guidance / rules. I consider its fair that DCFL 
calculates Mr Rs redress in line with new guidance and rules when they come into effect. 
DCFL must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon as 
any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and DCFL has 
received notification of Mr Rs acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes DCFL to pay Mr R.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If DCFL deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. DCFL should give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr R asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I have also considered the impact on Mr R of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our 
investigator recommended that a sum of £300 should be paid to Mr R by DCFL for what he 
referred to as the trouble and upset caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive taken into 
consideration Mr Rs age and circumstances and also that by retirement this DB pension 
would still have been a significant part of his overall pension entitlement, So I think the 
thought of losing benefits would have negatively impacted Mr R. I therefore agree that DCFL 
should also pay Mr R £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable 
advice which has likely had an impact on his retirement planning
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I now direct DC 
Financial Limited to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
DC Financial Limited to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require DC 
Financial Limited to pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
DC Financial Limited pays Mr R the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on DC Financial 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman