DRN-3096184
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as D has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned 
down a claim on its business interruption insurance policy after it was impacted by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr N, a director or D, has brought the complaint on Ds behalf. 
D has also been helped in bringing this complaint by a representative. For ease of reading, 
Ill refer to the representatives actions and comments as being those of D. 
What happened
D held a business interruption insurance policy with Allianz. It claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Allianz turned down Ds claim as it said Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. They 
added that while the policy covered a list of specified illnesses, Covid-19 wasnt one of the 
illnesses covered. 
Unhappy with Allianzs response, D brought its complaint to us. It thought its claim should be 
covered under different sections of the policy.
Damage
D said the core business interruption section of the policy covers damage and that the 
definition of damage is wide enough to cover a loss of property even where there hasnt 
been physical damage. D referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance 
Company (2020) to support its view that the policy should cover losses flowing from the 
interruption of its business due to Covid-19. D said its business had been prevented from 
operating and this amounted to damage.
D said that where the policy is ambiguous it should be read in the favour of the insured and 
that at its renewal in 2020 Allianz had added specific exclusions for contagious and 
infectious diseases and pandemic, indicating that the previous policy offered cover.
Specified illness
D said the list of illnesses set out in this extension of the policy arent an exhaustive list and 
theres nothing in the policy to say that new illnesses cant be added. D said the list of 
illnesses are very similar to the Governments list of Notifiable Diseases and therefore its 
reasonable to conclude that Covid-19 should be added. D said that as there had been a 
number of cases of Covid-19 within 25 miles of its premises, this extension should cover its 
claim. 
Sanitary arrangements
D said the actions taken in closing the business were due to sanitary arrangements because 
it wasnt safe for people in be in close proximity to each other. 
Loss of attraction
D said that when reopening its business, it had to severely limit the number of visitors to 
comply with social distancing. D said this hindrance to the premises amounted to damage. D 
added that the cancellation of events and damage to property in the local area due to Covid-
19 had impacted its business. 
Denial of access
D said its forced closure was a denial of access and amounted to damage. 
Other factors
D also said that it had expected to be covered following a statement made by the
Government towards the start of the pandemic and had a reasonable expectation that its 
policy would provide cover in these circumstances. 
Initial investigation
Our investigator looked into Ds claim but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt think 
the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
D disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
D has made a number of detailed points. Im not going to address them all but will instead 
focus on what I see as the central issues to this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ds business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Allianz has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ds claim.
Damage
The core business interruption section of the policy says:
The Insurer will indemnify the Insured for Business Interruption as a result of 
Damage occurring during the Period of Insurance
This section of the policy defines damage as:
Destruction, damage or loss insured under Sections 1,3,4 and 7 of this PolicyThe Schedule sets out that sections 1, 3 and 4 are covered. These are trade contents, 
goods in transit and deterioration of stock. 
The section for deterioration of stock covers damage to stock caused by problems with 
refrigeration or electricity. So there is no cover for closure due to Covid-19 under this 
section. Therefore, for cover to apply under the core business interruption section, Ds 
business interruption would need to be as a result of destruction, damage or loss to trade 
contents or goods in transit. However, I dont think this would provide cover for Ds claim, 
because I dont think the business interruption was as a result of damage.
D has referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020). 
However, I understand this has been overturned by the Court of Appeal. Ive considered this, 
but Ive also considered other cases which I think are more relevant to Ds claim, including 
TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v British 
Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development 
Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or
altered state to Ds contents or goods, which made them less valuable. Alternatively, its 
possible damage could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to 
remove the cause of potential damage.
Its possible that SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present in Ds
premises. However, the Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare settings1 
doesnt recommend any cleaning by a specialist. Theres no evidence of an excessive 
amount of SARS-CoV-2 on Ds contents or goods. And the presence of any particular virus 
doesnt automatically amount to damage. 
I havent seen anything to persuade me that the policy would be considered ambiguous and 
I dont think including an exclusion at renewal means that the policy initially provided cover 
or was unclear.
Denial of access
The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. This extension says:
Loss as insured by this Section resulting from interruption of or interference with 
the Business in consequence of Damage caused by any Event covered under 
Section 1 Trade Contents to property in the immediate vicinity of the Premises 
which shall prevent or hinder the use of or access to the Premises, whether the 
Insured's property or the Buildings at the Premises be Damaged or not.
While access to Ds premises might have been hindered, I dont think this was due to 
damage to property in its immediate vicinity for the reasons set out above. So this extension 
doesnt provide cover.
Loss of attraction
This extension requires Ds business interruption or interference to be as a result of:
accidental loss or destruction of or damage (other than obstruction of roads, 
streets and the like by weather or climatic conditions) to property within one mile 
radius of the Premises which:
a prevents or hinders the use of the Premises, or
b causes a fall in the number of customers attracted to the PremisesI havent seen anything to persuade me that Ds business interruption was due to loss, 
destruction of or damage to property within one mile of its premises, again for the reasons 
above. So I dont think this extension provides cover. 
Specified illness
This extension covers loss due to a specified illness occurring at Ds premises or within a 25 
mile radius. The policy specifically defines a specified illness as someone with an illness 
resulting from a specified list of diseases set out in the policy. Covid-19 isnt in that list 
which means that its not covered by the policy. 
When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something Allianz might have
known about when the policy was drafted. However, there are policies that provide cover for 
all notifiable diseases. While I accept that the list in Ds policy reflects some of the 
Governments list of notifiable diseases, there are a number of differences. Ds policy does 
not say that it covers notifiable diseases and instead sets out a specified list of illnesses 
which are covered by the policy.
While there is nothing in the extension that specifically says any new illnesses are excluded, 
there is also nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for illnesses not 
included, including any new illnesses which emerge. I dont think this extension can fairly be 
read to cover any and all diseases, so even if there were cases of Covid-19 within 25 miles 
of Ds premises, this doesnt cover its claim. 
Sanitary arrangements
The extension for specified disease also covers loss resulting from:
any accident causing defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at the 
Premises which causes restrictions on the use of the Premises on the order or 
advice of the competent local authority
For this to provide cover, the restrictions placed on Ds premises would need to be due to an 
accident causing defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements. I think this extension 
would reasonably be taken to mean the closure was due to problems with the premises 
toilets or washing facilities, rather than to allow for social distancing or to prevent the spread 
of a disease. In any event, I dont think the Governments advice on social distancing or 
requiring businesses to close was due to a defect in their sanitary arrangements as 
businesses were required to close irrespective of their sanitary arrangements.
Other factors
Although D might have had an expectation that its claim would be covered, or understood 
the same from a Government announcement, whether that is the case would still depend on 
the wording within its specific policy. And in this case, I dont think Ds policy provides cover 
for its claim.
I understand this isnt the outcome D was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Allianz to pay Ds claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman