DRN-3458834
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed its 
account and recalled its Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
What happened
BBLs were designed to help businesses get finance more quickly if they were adversely 
affected by the coronavirus outbreak. Under a government-backed scheme, lenders could 
provide a loan with a six-year term for up to 25% of the customers turnover, subject to a 
maximum of £50,000.
In July 2020, B successfully applied to Barclays for a £50,000 BBL and the funds were 
drawn down in the same month.
Five months later, in December 2020, Barclays wrote to B to say it was closing all the 
companys accounts with immediate effect. 
B complained to the bank. In response, Barclays said that it regularly reviews accounts and 
it was closing Bs accounts in accordance with the terms and conditions of their agreement.
In June 2021 Barclays issued a formal demand for repayment of the BBL.
B wasnt satisfied with Barclays response to its complaint and referred the matter to this 
service. Its director, Mr K, said Bs intention had been to buy another company when further 
funds became available from another source, and then to sell that company at a profit.
Our investigator looked at all the evidence provided and concluded that Barclays hadnt 
done anything wrong in closing Bs accounts and requiring repayment of the loan. He said 
the bank had acted in line with the terms and conditions of Bs accounts and it wasnt 
required to provide any more detail on the reasons than it had done already.
B didnt agree with the investigators findings. Mr K said he thought it was unjust that the 
bank hadnt provided any further information about the account closure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im sorry to tell B that Ive come to the same conclusions as the 
investigator and for largely the same reasons.
Review and closure of the accounts
Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions that were agreed for Bs accounts, including 
those for the BBL, and at Barclays actions.
Barclays decided to review Bs accounts after it received a separate BBL application from 
another company controlled by Mr K. The bank says it was fulfilling its legal and regulatory 
obligations when it carried out the review. Im satisfied that the account terms and conditions 
allowed Barclays to review the accounts in the way that it did, and that it was a reasonable 
thing to do. 
Following the review, Barclays decided to close Bs accounts. As the investigator explained, 
a bank is entitled to close an account with a customer  just as a customer may close their 
account with a bank  as long as the bank acts in line with the agreed terms and conditions. 
In this case, the terms and conditions of Bs accounts said Barclays could in a number of 
situations close the accounts immediately. Based on the review outcome, the banks 
decision was to close Bs accounts immediately. In the circumstances, I dont think the bank 
did anything wrong.
Mr K has asked for further information on the reasons for Barclays decision to close the 
accounts. But the bank isnt obliged to provide any further detail on this than it already has, 
and I cant fairly or reasonably require it to do so. 
Requirement to repay the BBL
Again Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions of the BBL. Under those terms, 
Barclays was entitled to terminate the loan and to demand its immediate repayment in 
certain circumstances. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Barclays decision 
to demand repayment was reasonable and was in line with the terms and conditions.
In summary
For all the above reasons, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in reviewing then closing 
Bs accounts, then later requiring repayment of the BBL. I therefore dont require Barclays to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman