DRN-2780926
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car acquired with finance from Oodle Financial Services Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In January 2020 Mr S was supplied with a  car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Oodle.
Mr S experienced issues with the car including:
Loss of power
Engie management light illuminated
Radio not working
Vibration whilst accelerating
Low oil level
Mr S contacted the supplying dealer who took the car back for repairs and provided Mr S 
with a courtesy car.
The repairs were delayed due to the dealer having to wait for a part to be delivered. In the 
meantime, the courtesy car was clamped due to it not being taxed. Mr S was left without a 
car and had to borrow money to buy another car so he could get to work.
Sometime later the dealer advised Mr S that repairs had been completed. Mr S said he 
wanted to reject the car and complained to Oodle.
In response, Oodle said the dealer had confirmed that the car had been repaired and was 
awaiting collection by Mr S. It also said that the dealer was willing for Mr S to exchange the 
car if he was still unhappy with it.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. In the meantime, he 
collected the car from the dealer in December 2020. Having collected the car, Mr S 
experienced some of the same issues as before, including the engine management light 
illuminating and the oil service warning light.
Our investigator asked Mr S to obtain a diagnostic report to confirm which faults were 
currently present. The report found that the battery and camshaft sensor needed replacing 
and that all the tyres were deteriorated.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the repairs hadnt been successful and that 
Mr S should be able to reject the car.
Oodle didnt agree. It provided comments from the dealer in which they said the battery and 
tyres would have deteriorated because the car had been in storage for almost a year. It also 
said there were two camshaft sensors on the car and that although the dealer had replaced 
one of these, it could be the other one which had failed.
Oodle arranged an independent inspection of the car which found a camshaft sensor fault 
which was causing the engine management light to illuminate. The report said that the 
supplying dealer couldnt say which sensor had been faulty before and concluded that the 
repairer didnt have the skills required to diagnose and repair the correct sensor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Oodle supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking inti account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, kits 
presumed that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up 
to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one attempt at repair. If the repair 
isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months the burden of proof is 
reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
supplied.
The issue in this case centres on whether there was failed repair to the camshaft position 
sensor.
Theres no dispute that there is a camshaft position sensor fault with the car. This has been 
confirmed by the most recent inspection. 
I can see that there was previously a camshaft position sensor fault and that a camshaft 
sensor was replaced by the supplying dealer. Information provided by the dealer suggests 
that two camshaft sensors were ordered but one had to be sent back because it was 
incorrect.
The independent inspection report states that the dealer wasnt sure which sensor was 
faulty. Ive taken into account that the supplying dealer ordered two sensors. I dont think it 
would have done this unless it wasnt sure which sensor needed replacing, or unless both 
sensors needed replacing. It seems that only one sensor was replaced. This leaves open the 
possibility that the wrong sensor was replaced, or the right sensor was replaced but the 
repair has failed and the sensor is faulty again. On either analysis, I dont think it can be said 
that the repair was successful.
Based on what Ive seen, it isnt possible to say which sensor has failed now, or which one 
was replaced by the dealer. The fact that the sensor required replacement so soon after the 
point of supply suggests that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. Im 
satisfied, based on the available, information, the dealers attempt at repairs wasnt 
successful. Under the relevant legislation, Mr S should be allowed to reject the car. 
Putting things right
I appreciate that the dealer has offered to repair any further issues with the car so he can 
continue to use it. However, as Ive already said, Im of the view that the repair carried out by the supplying dealer wasnt successful, so Mr S should be allowed to reject the car. he isnt 
obliged to accept further repairs.
Because the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied, Mr S hasnt been able to use it 
from January 2020 to December 2020. To the extent that Mr S has made payments during 
this time, these should be refunded. If Mr S hasnt made payments during this time, any 
adverse information on his credit file should be removed.
Im aware that Mr S didnt collect the car when repairs had been completed in March 2020. 
However, because Im of the view that the repairs werent successful, Mr S wouldve been 
allowed to reject the car at this point. 
As far as Im aware, Mr S has used the car since he collected it in December 2020, so I 
wont be asking Oodle to refund any payments Mr S has made since December 2020.
Its clear that Mr S has been caused a degree of trouble and upset. Although he was initially 
provided with a courtesy car, this was clamped, and he was left in a position where he had to 
arrange his own transport.  Mr S has explained that this caused him stress and he had 
trouble sleeping. I think its fair to ask Oodle to pay compensation to recognise the trouble 
and upset caused to Mr S as a result of being supplied with a car which wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
Mr S has incurred other costs, including the costs of a diagnostic check and the costs of a 
MOT which he says the dealer was meant to carry out. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that the dealer had agreed to carry out a MOT at no cost to Mr S, so I dont think its 
fair to ask Oodle to cover this cost. But I do think Mr S should be refunded the cost of the 
diagnostic check which he obtained in January 2021 having collected the car and found that 
the warning lights were still illuminated.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Oodle Financial Services Limited must:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr S
Refund Mr Ss monthly payments from 28 January to 16 December 2020 
Refund the cost of the diagnostic check dated January 2021 (£50) 
Pay compensation of £150 for trouble and upset
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman