DRN-3190410
The complaint
Mr P complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (RL) allowed his 
pension transfer to proceed in 2014 without warning him about the risk factors in doing so. 
Mr Ps representative says that the pension to which he was transferring was newly 
established, dormant and didnt employ Mr P. It says the proposed investments after he 
transferred were unregulated and high risk. Mr Ps representative says that he was not 
supplied with the Scorpion warning and it was not suggested to him that he seek 
independent advice. It said that RL had refused previous transfer requests but allowed this 
transfer to proceed. Had RL warned Mr P, he would not have transferred. 
Mr Ps pension was held with The Co-operative Insurance Society Limited but RL now takes 
responsibility for the complaint so I will refer to RL throughout. 
What happened
Mr P says that in 2013 he was approached by a number of different firms offering a free 
pension review with a view to transferring his pension elsewhere for improved investment 
returns. Mr P says that RL had warned him at the time about the nature of the pension 
schemes he was transferring to  so he didnt proceed with those transfers. 
However, in 2014 he then met with an unregulated firm  Marcus James Commercial UK 
Limited (MJC)  which recommended that he transfer his pension to a Small Self-
Administered Scheme (SSAS) so that he could invest in overseas commercial property and 
storage units in the U.K. Mr P says that he has suffered financial loss as a result of the 
transfer and subsequent investments. 
Mr P says that he was not told at the time that MJC werent FCA authorised and MJC didnt 
tell him about the risks involved in the transfer. He was told that the pension he was 
transferring to was safe. Mr P agreed to go ahead and his pension was transferred to a 
SSAS administered by Rowanmoor SSAS Administrators. Mr P says that  the SSAS was a 
newly created dormant company established solely for holding his pension fund. Most of his 
pension fund was then invested in unregulated and high risk investments. 
Mr P says that RL should have been aware of the initiatives to prevent pension scams from 
2013 onwards  so that consumers could be protected. 
Mr P complained to RL on this basis  but it did not uphold his complaint. RL said at the time 
of the transfer it did undertake reviews of pension schemes that it suspected of being scams 
 which was why it rejected Mr Ps previous two transfer requests to other pension schemes. 
RL said that in the period when Mr P requested these two previous transfers he was 
provided with the pension scams booklet (or Scorpion booklet) which set out issues to look 
out for and it also provided detail of the Pension Regulator and Pensions Advisory Service. It 
also recommended that Mr P consult with an independent financial adviser before 
transferring. RL believed therefore that Mr P was fully aware of the potential for scams 
before he transferred. RL also confirmed that Rowanmoor was not on its suspicion list and 
therefore enhanced due diligence was not required. 
An investigator at this service considered Mr Ps complaint. He did not uphold the complaint. 
In summary he said:
RL had previously supplied Mr P with the Scorpion literature which set out the risks 
of pension liberation scams and had refused two previous transfers that Mr P 
attempted.
RL obtained confirmation that Rowanmoor was registered with HMRC and 
Rowanmoor was not on its suspicion list. 
The transfer Mr P made was not to a proven scam and did not involve pension 
liberation and there was no indication the proposed investments were fraudulent.
There wasnt any reason why RL should have carried out further due diligence as to 
the proposed transfer.
Because two previous transfers had been refused Mr P should have been alerted to 
the potential risks factors of a transfer.
He had already made arrangements to invest in commercial property with his 
pension before he approached RL to transfer. The investigator therefore thought Mr 
P likely wished to proceed with these investments and had done so despite being 
advised by RL to seek independent advice. So he was persuaded that Mr P would 
have proceeded in any event, regardless of any guidance by RL. This was the third 
time he had attempted to do so.
We did not receive a response from Mr Ps representative so the complaint has been passed 
to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and guidance
Before I explain my reasoning, it will be useful to set out the environment RL was operating
in at the time with regards to transfer requests and pension liberation as well as any rules
and guidance that were in place. Specifically, its worth noting the following:
The Pension Schemes Act 1993 gives a member of a personal pension scheme the 
right to transfer the cash equivalent value of their accrued benefits to another 
personal or occupational pension scheme.
Personal pension providers, like RL are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(the FCA). Prior to April 2013, they were regulated by the FCAs predecessor, the 
Financial Services Authority (FSA). There has never been any FSA/FCA rules that 
specify the checks providers need to do before someone can transfer from a 
personal pension.
Prior to February 2013, and the launch of the Scorpion campaign, personal pension 
providers often just checked that the receiving scheme was registered with HMRC 
and would only investigate further if it was apparent that the transfer was, in some 
way, suspicious. However, ahead of the Scorpion campaign, its evident the FSA, 
and other regulatory bodies such as TPR, were becoming increasingly concerned 
about the dangers of pension liberation schemes.
On 10 June 2011 and 6 July 2011, the FSA warned consumers about the dangers of 
pension unlocking. It referred to cold-calling and websites promoting transfers to 
schemes that invest money overseas (such as in property) to avoid paying UK tax 
and/or result in cash being drawn from the pension ahead of retirement, including as a loan. Particular concerns related to the tax implications of these transactions, the 
fees charged and potential investment losses from scam activity. The FSA said it was 
working closely with HMRC and TPR to find out more information and encouraged 
affected consumers to contact FSA, HMRC or TPR helplines.
TPR announced in December 2011 that it was working with HMRC and the FSA and 
had closed some schemes.
In February 2012, TPR published a warning, and factsheet, about pension liberation. 
The FSA supported this campaign. It was designed to raise public awareness about 
pension liberation rather than introduce new steps for transferring schemes to follow. 
The warnings highlighted in the campaign related to websites and cold-callers that 
encouraged people to transfer in order to receive cash or access a loan.
TPR guidance
TPR launched its Scorpion campaign on 14 February 2013. The aim of the campaign was to
raise awareness of pension liberation activity and to provide guidance on dealing with
transfer requests in order to prevent liberation activity happening. Several bodies including
the FSA supported this initiative, so Im satisfied it was relevant to personal pension
providers such as RL.
The campaign involved an action pack that highlighted the warning signs present in a
number of transfer examples, specifically: being cold-called, money being transferred
overseas, incentives to transfer, inadequate information about investments and pressure to
complete a transfer quickly.
It suggested transferring schemes should look out for these issues, as well as receiving
occupational schemes that were newly registered or were suddenly involved in multiple
transfer requests. If any of the warning signs applied, the action pack provided a checklist
schemes could use. This checklist suggested asking the member for copies of promotional
materials, emails or letters about the scheme and asking for any further details about how
they became aware of the receiving scheme and how it had been described to them. If those
enquiries established the member had been advised, it went on to suggest checking whether
the adviser had been registered with the FSA. Where transferring schemes had concerns,
they were encouraged to consider delaying the transfer and to seek legal advice.
The Scorpion campaign also included:
A Pensions Advisory Service insert to issue to members when a transfer pack was 
requested. The insert warns about offers to cash-in pensions early, cash incentives, 
cold calling, being put under pressure to transfer and the potential tax consequences 
of accessing pensions early.
A Pensions Advisory Service leaflet which gives more information, including real life 
examples, about pension liberation.
FCA/FSAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN)
The FCA Handbook set out Principles and Rules that firms must adhere to when carrying out
business; and firms must always apply the principles, even when specific rules and guidance
from the FSA/FCA in a particular area are absent or evolving  as was the case with pension
liberation/scams/fraud.
The PRIN section of the FCA Handbook contains 11 principles and I consider the most
relevant principles in relation to transfer requests and pension liberation to be the following:Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat
them fairly.
Principle 7  A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Did RL follow the relevant guidance and rules?
I dont believe it has been evidenced that RL was aware of all the warning signs that were 
set out in the Scorpion action pack. It is not clear whether Mr P was cold-called in relation 
to this particular transfer, but, in any event, that was not apparent to RL. Also the pension 
transfer was not to an overseas scheme, there was no sign of an incentive and it is not clear 
whether RL was aware where Mr P was to invest through the SSAS. But it does appear that 
the SSAS (not Rowanmoor itself) Mr P was to transfer to was newly established. So RL 
could have queried that, especially given his previous requests to transfer.  
However, even if it was accepted that RL should have contacted Mr P, I dont believe this 
would have likely altered his decision to transfer. 
Mr P had already been provided previously with the Scorpion leaflet or insert.
This insert was primarily warning of the danger of unlocking cash from pensions early 
(pension liberation). It warned about receiving loans or cash incentives. It said that 
consumers should watch out for being approached out of the blue, introducers who offered 
cash incentives, companies offering loans and not being informed about the tax 
consequences. 
It should be noted that there is no evidence here of pension liberation occurring or Mr P 
being provided with loans or cash incentives. The evidence is that Mr P was advised or 
guided to transfer his pensions to a SSAS to put his money in particular investments. In 
general there is nothing untoward about that and many individuals choose to change 
pension and make different investments. The SSAS might not have been the most suitable 
product for Mr P and the investment itself may well have been flawed, but RLs 
responsibilities did not extend to assessing the suitability of the transfer for Mr P. It was not 
advising him. 
Mr P had requested two previous transfers of his RL pension but these had been rejected by 
RL. RL wrote to Mr P on 4 March 2013 saying that it was asking for information about his 
proposed transfer to a pension. It highlighted that this was an occupational pension scheme 
only usually open to employees and, being self-employed, he should check the position. It 
supplied the Scorpion booklet and referred Mr P to the pension regulators and pension 
advisory services websites. 
RL also wrote to Mr P on 1 May 2013 asking for information about his proposed transfer to 
the same pension.  When doing so it supplied the Scorpion booklet and referred Mr P to the 
pension regulators and pension advisory services websites. 
RL rejected the application to transfer because one of the parties involved was recorded as 
being suspected of taking part in pension scams. RL later in 2013 received a request to 
transfer Mr Ps pension to another pension scheme. This was rejected for the same reason.I think these two attempted transfers would have highlighted to Mr P the risks of transferring 
his pension and that this might not be in his best interests. As discussed, he had also been 
provided with the Scorpion leaflet on several occasions. The leaflet set out the warning sign 
of being approached out of the blue or cold-called. It also suggested that he find out about 
the companys (who advised him) background and suggested speaking to an unrelated 
financial adviser. RL separately advised Mr P to seek independent financial advice. But Mr P 
proceeded with his transfer despite having that information, having already indicated prior to 
the transfer his intention to invest in commercial property. 
In these circumstances I believe Mr P proceeded with the transfer likely aware of the 
material risks. The transfer was to a recognised and legitimate pension scheme known in the 
provision of SASS and Mr P had the right to transfer to it. RL received a completed 
discharge form which Mr P had signed in November 2013 instructing a transfer to 
Rowanmoor. There wasnt reason for RL to have refused the transfer bearing in mind the 
receiving pension was not recorded as being under suspicion and I dont believe RL would 
have been acting appropriately to not facilitate Mr Ps decision to transfer. 
I have taken into account all the evidence, including what Mr P has told us, but I dont 
believe it has been demonstrated as more likely that Mr P would not have transferred had 
RL contacted him (assuming that RL should have done so). Mr P may well have lost out as a 
result of the transfer because of the actions of third parties and the investments he chose  
and that is very unfortunate. But RL was not responsible for those investments or the 
suitability of such for him. In these specific circumstances I dont believe RL has caused Mr 
Ps loss or is responsible for that loss. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022. 
David Bird
Ombudsman