DRN-2305096
The complaint
 Mr O complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed 
by Startline Motor Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the 
vehicle and end the finance agreement.
What happened
 Mr O tells us that in May 2019 he acquired a vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as P. He 
says that within a few days he experienced problems with the vehicle including the gearbox 
and engine management light illuminating. He says the vehicle was returned to P but that it 
didnt repair it properly. Mr O states that he rejected the vehicle having obtained an 
independent report by a company Ill call A which showed the vehicle to have faults and to 
be a fire hazard.
Startline told us that an independent inspection by a company Ill refer to as D had found 
that the vehicle was of satisfactory quality.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She found that Mr O 
hadnt authorised the repairs which she thought that P had carried out. And hed previously 
rejected the vehicle. She thought he was able to do so as the vehicle hadnt been of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. She recommended that Startline accept Mr Os 
rejection of the vehicle.
Startline didnt accept this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I understand that the vehicle has now been repossessed by Startline. But I dont think that 
this materially affects the issues which I have to determine.
Im sorry that this vehicle proved to be so problematic for Mr O. I understand that hed be 
disappointed that faults arose so soon after he acquired it.
Mr Os hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Startline supplied the vehicle so its responsible 
for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA states that in order to conform to contract 
goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being 
what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects 
of price, previous use and durability.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time.
Here it isnt in dispute that Mr O complained about the quality of the vehicle and sought to 
reject it within the 30 day period that the CRA allows for the short term right to reject.  The 
finance agreement was incepted on 22 May 2019. Contact notes from Startline show that Mr 
O reported on 28 May 2019 that the car had been returned to P. Also on 13 June a further 
call is noted to the effect that he wished to reject the vehicle.
Ive seen a detailed invoice from A  together with a video. A inspected the vehicle on 20 
June 2019 and found it not to be roadworthy. And to amount to a fire risk. It reported that the 
Diesel Particulate Filter was blocked along with other issues and said that both inlet manifold 
plugs had been glued. It gave an estimate of repair costs of approximately £4,000.
Following this Mr O arranged for the vehicle to be transported back to Ps premises on or 
around the 25 June. Startline then sent a letter dated 2 July to Mr O indicating that it was 
pursuing rejection of the vehicle with P.
The vehicle was inspected again on 16 July by a company Ill refer to as D. It concluded, 
following a road test, that the vehicle had performed without issues or warnings being 
displayed. Following receipt of this report Startline issued a final response letter in which it 
declined to accept Mr Os attempt to reject the vehicle.
Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Im satisfied that Mr O reported issues to P within a few days of acquiring the vehicle. And 
that he returned it to P on or around 29 May. Subsequently, after collecting the vehicle from 
P, Mr O was still unhappy with the vehicle and sought to reject it. In support of this hes 
obtained As report which in my opinion shows the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality at 
the time of its inspection. 
The vehicle having been returned to P, I see nothing inconsistent in D later finding the 
vehicle to be issue free when it inspected the vehicle on 16 July. Repairs would have been 
required whether or not theyd been authorised by O. If Mr Os rejection had been accepted 
presumably the vehicle wouldve again been advertised for sale.
Ive not seen any plausible information that Mr O authorised any repairs that were carried out 
after he sought to reject it. And Im aware that P is stating that only the DPF needed to be 
regenerated. But the basic questions I have to resolve are whether the available information 
showed that the vehicle didnt conform to contract when Mr O sought to reject it. And if so, 
has it been shown that this was due to issues which werent present at the point of supply.
I find that As report satisfies the requirement to show the vehicle didnt conform to contract 
on the date of its inspection. As this was within 30 days of supply, Mr O was entitled to reject 
the vehicle without further reason. Ds later report does not, in my opinion, alter this.
A is a branch of the vehicles manufacturer and its implausible to think it would identify 
issues if these werent actually present at the time of its inspection. An inspection which is 
supported by a video recording. If D didnt find the same issues then its more probable than 
not that this is because either its inspection was not sufficiently thorough (which seems 
unlikely) or more likely, that repairs had been made since As inspection.
Im also told that a default has been applied to Mr Os account. And this has caused difficulties with Mr O being able to obtain a mortgage. Given Ive seen information that there 
are other adverse entries which might have affected any such application I cant say that 
Startline applying a default is the sole or principal cause of this. And if Mr O accepts my 
decision, any impact caused by the reporting of this finance agreement should largely cease. 
Any adverse information - including the default  will be removed from his credit file.
In summary, I find Mr O should be allowed to reject the vehicle and - subject to a deduction 
for fair use - should be refunded any sums hes paid towards the finance agreement, along 
with his deposit. Mr O did have some use of the vehicle  the odometer reading recorded by 
D was 98,872 miles  which is rather more than 2,500 miles since supply.
I think he should pay one monthly instalment to reflect this.
Putting things right
 Startline now needs to take the following action:
1. If not already terminated, end the agreement with nothing more for Mr O to pay; 
2. Refund the £500 cash deposit on the agreement;
3. Refund any payments made on the agreement  subject to Starline being able to 
retain one monthly payment for fair use;
4. Pay £150 to Mr O for distress and inconvenience caused;
5. Reimburse Mr O the cost of the Audi diagnostic - £98.88;
6. Arrange to have any adverse information relating to this agreement removed from Mr 
Os credit file.
Startline may deduct one monthly payment for fair use arising from the sums due in relation 
to items 2 and 3 above.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be added to sums due under items 2,3 and 
5 above, from date of payment to date of settlement.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint. I now require 
Startline Motor Finance Limited to take the action Ive detailed in the section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman