DRN-2030090
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about a lifetime mortgage they took out in March 2005 with 
Aviva Equity Release UK Limited. They dont believe their vulnerable state, due to Mrs Ms 
medical situation, was considered by the salesman. In addition, they say that although they 
received an explanation of how the mortgage worked, the long-term potential consequences 
of it werent. They have said they were unaware that the mortgage debt would mean they 
had nothing to leave their loved ones or even pay for their funerals. Mr and Mrs M have also 
said that they werent made aware that if they wanted to move, it would most likely have to 
be a lower value home and that might not be possible.
Mr and Mrs M have also said the salesman failed to ask if they had alternative ways to raise 
the money they needed. The main reason they needed to borrow the money was because 
their expenditure was higher than their income due to the cost of travel to medical 
appointments. They now believe that they could have claimed additional state benefits which 
would have been more suitable than releasing equity. In addition, their family could and 
would have assisted, had they spoken to them about the situation. They werent asked if 
theyd discussed the situation with their family or looked at other ways to raise funds.
Mr and Mrs M are represented in their complaint by Ms H.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M contacted Aviva in early 2005 to discuss releasing equity from their home. 
The fact find completed at the time recorded their circumstances, needs and requirements. 
This indicated that whilst both had previously had health problems, there was nothing 
currently causing concerns. They had a limited retirement income and their normal outgoings 
exceeded their income by £145 per month. They had no savings or investments and a loan 
that was costing £145 per month. 
Alternative options for funding their needs were discussed  downsizing and alternative 
forms of borrowing. However, they were dismissed as Mr and Mrs Ms income wouldnt allow 
other types of borrowing and they didnt want to downsize. They said it would be difficult to 
move to a cheaper property and still remain where they were, which they wanted to do. It 
was suggested they check with the local authority about obtaining a grant for some of the 
home improvements they wanted to do (install central heating). State benefits were also 
considered, but it was recorded that their income meant they didnt qualify for means tested 
benefits and they didnt expect to in the future. It was detailed that Mr and Mrs M told the 
adviser they had discussed their plans with their children, who agreed with their decision. 
It was recorded that Mr and Mrs M wanted the money for a several reasons; to do some 
home improvements (including installing central heating), repay their existing loan, new 
furniture and carpets, holidays and an emergency fund.
Mr and Mrs M were given a key facts document which explained how the mortgage worked 
and the risks associated with it. It was clearly stated that they could owe more than the 
property was worth. Included was an illustration of the amount Mr and Mrs M would owe at 
the end of each year going forward, based on assumed interest rates. This showed they 
would owe more than the then current value of their home after 17 years. It also showed the 
debt would continue to increase each year after that.
The mortgage application was accepted in March 2005 for an advance of £30,000 on their 
property which was valued at £120,000 in its present condition, but £122,000 after central 
heating was installed. The mortgage offer included an illustration of what might be owed at 
the end of each year going forward. It again showed that after 17 years it was estimated 
Mr and Mrs M would owe more than the £120,000 their home was then worth. They were 
asked to take the paperwork to their legal advisers to discuss them and for the legal advisers 
to make sure they fully understood how the mortgage worked.
In 2010 Mrs M called Aviva to enquire if further funds could be released. As the outstanding 
balance of the mortgage was almost 30% of the value of the property, she was told Aviva 
couldnt lend any more money against the property.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Aviva about the suitability of the mortgage in 2019. Aviva didnt 
uphold the complaint. It concluded the sale had been done properly and based on the 
information Mr and Mrs M had given their adviser, the mortgage was suitable for them at the 
time. 
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with Avivas response and referred their complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be 
upheld. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the investigators view of the complaint and asked that it be 
passed to an ombudsman for consideration. Ms H said that they had no recollection of 
seeing the illustration at the time of the sale or included within the mortgage offer. She also 
said it wasnt sufficiently explained to Mr and Mrs M and to put everything in a pack was not 
good enough. It was stated they would have made a different decision if theyd been aware 
there could be nothing left at the end of the term.  
Ms H didnt believe the point about Mr and Mrs M being eligible for additional state benefits 
was adequately answered. She believes they were eligible for additional benefits at the time. 
She also disputed the reasons given at the time for the release of equity  whilst 
Mr and Mrs M had intended to buy some new furniture, the money was intended primarily for 
debt repayment and living expenses. She said getting the use of the money wrong implied a 
tick box approach by the adviser and a failure to address the needs of vulnerable individuals.
In relation to the discussion of Mr and Mrs Ms plans with family members, she denied this 
happened and doesnt believe that the report sent to them is evidence that it happened. 
Ms H said that Mr and Mrs M should have noticed this having been documented and 
questioned it at the time, but highlighted that they were stressed and vulnerable at the time.
Ms H believes that the adviser should have raised the possibility of Mr and/or Mrs M having 
mobility issues in the future and needing to live on the ground floor. She believes if this had 
happened Mr and Mrs M would have made a different decision as they were already at the 
bottom of the housing market and wouldnt be able to move.  
The investigator considered Ms Hs further comments, but they didnt change his mind. As 
agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before the sale of this mortgage Mr and Mrs M met with one of Avivas mortgage advisers. 
They were asked questions about their circumstances and what they wanted to achieve from 
the advice theyd asked for. The adviser was entitled to rely on, and base advice on, what 
Mr and Mrs M said about their circumstances and needs. 
Mr and Mrs M have explained what their situation was at the time of the sale of this 
mortgage and what they wanted the money for  some furniture, repaying their loan and the 
remainder was spent on daily living expenses. However, this doesnt appear to have been 
what they told the Aviva adviser. That was a very different picture of their circumstances and 
health. An adviser cant take things into account that he or she isnt made aware of.
Having reviewed the information Aviva was basing its advice on, I dont believe the advice 
was inappropriate. Mr and Mrs M said they wanted to release money for home 
improvements, to repay a debt, to have an emergency fund and to enjoy life. These were, 
and still are, considered entirely reasonable reasons for releasing equity from a home; its up 
to the homeowner to decide what they want to do with their own assets and money. 
It would appear Mr and Mrs M were made aware of the risks associated with taking a lifetime 
mortgage and were willing to accept them in 2005. The risks would not only have been 
explained by the Aviva adviser but also Mr and Mrs Ms own solicitor. 
As for the concept of equity release being discussed with Mr and Mrs Ms family, the 
statement in the fact find would again have been based on what they told the adviser. There 
was no requirement for them to discuss the matter with their family or anyone else, other 
than the solicitor Aviva insisted on. I cant find Aviva at fault if Mr and Mrs M didnt talk to 
their children about what they were thinking of doing, despite having indicated they had done 
so.
Ms H has said that she believes the adviser should have raised the possibility of 
Mr and/or Mrs M developing mobility issues and needing ground floor accommodation. She 
thinks they would have made a different decision if this possibility had been raised as they 
would have known such a property would cost more and they wouldnt be able to afford such 
a property and port the mortgage to it. 
Firstly, Mr and Mrs M do appear to have been asked about what they expected from the 
future. I am satisfied that most older or retired people would be aware their health might 
deteriorate in the future and there could be consequences of that to their living 
arrangements. It isnt for the adviser to point out every possibility that could happen to a 
potential mortgagor in the future. It was enough for the adviser to raise the issue of the 
future, ask a consumer to think about it and what they expect of it. 
I know that this will disappoint Mr and Mrs M, but I dont consider Aviva acted inappropriately 
when it recommended a lifetime mortgage to them, based on what it knew of their 
circumstances at the time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 24 September 2020. 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman