DRN-2760463
The complaint
Mr A complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) settled a third-party claim 
for an unreasonably high amount against a motor insurance policy on which hes a named 
driver. Hes unhappy its seeking recovery of the costs from him.
 
Reference to Admiral also includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr A was involved in an accident with in October 2018. The police were called, and Mr A 
was later convicted of drink-driving. Admiral received a claim from the driver of the other car 
and contacted Mr A about this. It said Mr A had breached the terms and conditions of the 
policy and would therefore be removed from it. Admiral also said it was likely its liability 
would be limited to its obligations under the Road Traffic Act 1988 (RTA). 
As it was in discussions with the third party, Admiral received court summons from them. 
Admiral negotiated a settlement before the claim progressed to court proceedings. It then 
sought recovery of these costs from Mr A.
Mr A complained to Admiral that it sent the recovery letters to the policyholder instead of him 
and this left him with no time to respond. He was also unhappy it didnt keep him in the loop 
with regards to the claim, and questioned the costs involved. Mr A disagreed with the police 
report  he said the police only relied on the third partys statement  and the degree of 
damage to the third partys car. He thought Admiral didnt properly investigate the third-party 
claim.
Admiral acknowledged it should have corresponded with Mr A as well as the policyholder, 
given the nature of the claim. It also accepted there were large gaps in its communication 
with Mr A. To recognise the distress this caused Mr A, Admiral offered £60 compensation. 
But it was satisfied the correct decision had been made regarding liability based on the 
available information.
Our investigator considered Mr As complaint and concluded Admiral had acted reasonably 
in settling the third-party claim. She explained under the RTA, Admiral was entitled to 
recover the outlay from Mr A. Mr A didnt agree and asked for the matter to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by reassuring Mr A and Admiral that although Ive only provided a summary of 
what happened, Ive read and considered everything in its entirety. That I concentrate on the 
crux of the issue in my decision isnt meant as a discourtesy but reflects the quick and 
informal service we provide.
What I need to decide here is whether it was fair of Admiral to settle a third-party claim due 
to its obligations under the RTA, and then recover this amount from Mr A. Under the RTA, 
Admiral must settle an unsatisfied judgement obtained by a third party where a valid policy 
is in place. And an insurer can pursue the policyholder or anyone else named on the policy 
to recover the costs. 
In this case, there was an out-of-court settlement. So, strictly speaking Admiral didnt settle 
the third-party claim due to its obligations under the RTA. But the policy does entitle Admiral 
to recover all sums paid (including all legal costs), whether in settlement or under a 
judgement, for any claims arising from an accident where the policyholder or any person 
entitled to drive is  among other situations  found to be over the legal limit for alcohol or 
drugs. And that is what has happened here.
 
Its not unreasonable for an insurer to step in and settle a claim prior to court proceedings. 
Insurers do this to save costs involved in the case going to court. And its usually in the best 
interests of the individual that the insurer eventually recovers the costs from. For me to 
conclude Admiral acted unreasonably in settling the third-party claim, Id need to be satisfied 
its decision was inherently wrong. By this I mean Id need to be satisfied Admiral settled a 
claim that could have been successfully defended in court, or that it paid more than would 
have been due if the case had gone to court.
  
Mr A has told us he would have defended himself in court if hed been given the opportunity 
sooner. And hes also questioned the costs involved. I can see Admiral notified Mr A of the 
court proceedings when it became aware. So, it could be argued Mr A was made reasonably 
aware of the court proceedings and given advanced notice. But Im also mindful by this point 
Admiral had already started negotiating a settlement with the third party. I think Admiral 
could have been more proactive in updating Mr A to give him a chance to decide whether he 
wanted to defend the third-party claim if it went to court. But I dont consider its failure to do 
this has prejudiced Mr As position in any way.
 
This is because having considered the available information, Im not persuaded Mr A would 
have successfully defended the third-party claim in court if hed tried to. I note he told 
Admiral at the outset he thought he was at fault for the accident. Im also not persuaded 
Mr A would have achieved a better settlement if the case had gone to court. Its my 
judgement Admiral used its expertise to settle the third-party claim on the best terms.
I appreciate Mr A feels Admiral didnt carry out an adequate investigation into the third-party 
claim. But I can see it considered all the relevant information when considering the claim. 
I understand Mr A feels the police report is inaccurate as the police only relied on the third 
partys statement. But given the officers observed Mr As conduct independently (noted in 
the report), I dont consider it unreasonable of Admiral to have placed most weight on the 
polices account of how the accident happened.
I can also see Admiral interrogated the costs claimed by the third party, including asking for 
a full breakdown as well as engineer and medical reports. So, Admiral asked the third party 
to substantiate the costs before satisfying itself these were fully accounted for and 
reasonably in line with the damages claimed for. The costs, which Mr A was responsible for, 
would have been significantly higher if the claim had progressed to court proceedings. I dont 
consider Admiral caused Mr A to be in a worse-off position because it negotiated a 
settlement. It was trying to limit the claim costs by acting quickly instead of waiting for a full 
court trial to decide costs. 
In summary, while Admiral didnt have an obligation to settle the third-party claim, I can 
understand why it did so. And for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont consider Admirals 
actions have prejudiced Mr As position. Im also satisfied Admiral has acted within the terms of the policy in recovering the costs associated with the settlement of the third-party claim 
from Mr A.
 
Ive also considered Mr As concerns regarding Admirals communication about the claim. 
I can see Admiral already accepts it didnt update Mr A in a timely manner. And it wrote to 
the policyholder when it sought recovery of the claim costs from Mr A. The correspondence 
wasnt forwarded to Mr A until after the 28-day deadline. Understandably, this left him 
distressed and worried that Admiral might have commenced legal proceedings as mentioned 
in the recovery letter.
 
But when thinking about the impact, Im also mindful Admiral hadnt yet commenced legal 
proceedings when Mr A got in touch. And it put recovery action on hold while it answered his 
enquiries. I note too that Admiral offered to discuss the repayment and work with Mr A in 
light of his financial situation. Taking everything into account, I consider Admirals offer of 
£60 is fair compensation. Its in the region of what I would have considered awarding if 
Admiral hadnt already offered it. So, I wont be telling it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is Admiral Insurance Company Limited has already 
fairly resolved this complaint. If it hasnt already done so, I direct it to pay Mr A £60.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman