DRN-3440631
The complaint
Mr C complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited didnt inform him of all his options 
before he voluntarily terminated a hire purchase agreement (HPA) he had taken out with it.
What happened
Mr C acquired a car, in 2020, by way of a HPA with BMWFS. In May 2021, the car was 
impounded by police. He says that after this happened he spoke to BMWFS on numerous 
occasions to ask it what his options were. He says he disagreed with the reasons given by 
police for impounding the car.
Mr C says that BMWFS didnt issue any Default Notice to him. He says he was told different 
things by different advisers when he spoke to BMWFS and nothing was put in writing to him. 
He thought he had only two options  to voluntarily settle the agreement by paying around 
£1500 or to pay approximately £10,000 to buy the car. 
Mr C says he subsequently became aware of a third option which would have allowed him to 
sell the vehicle by auction. He says if hed known about this he couldve used the sale 
proceeds to repay BMWFS and wouldve also been able to recoup the £10,000 deposit he 
paid when he acquired the car. He complained to BMWFS.
BMWFS investigated his complaint. It said that Mr C had breached the terms and conditions 
of the HPA. It said he did not have a valid driving licence, he had parted with possession of 
the vehicle and it had been seized. BMWFS said it had told him it would issue a Default 
Notice in May 2021 but acknowledged it hadnt issued a Default Notice until 10 July 2021. It 
said it couldnt be responsible if Mr C hadnt received this.
BMWFS said police had been reluctant to return the vehicle to Mr C and to avoid further 
charges, it had arranged collection of the vehicle from the pound. It had sent Mr C an email 
on 13 July 2021 setting out his options. It told him he could settle the HPA in full and take 
ownership of the car or he could voluntarily terminate the HPA. If he voluntarily terminated 
the HPA he would be liable for £1,636.96. Mr C had confirmed he wanted to voluntarily 
terminate the agreement and BMWFS had indicated it was willing to permit him to do that by 
means of a payment plan.
BMWFS accepted it had taken it longer than usual to inform Mr C of his options and for that 
reason it partially upheld his complaint.
Mr C was not satisfied. He referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
his complaint. He said that BMWFS was entitled to terminate the HPA. It had informed Mr C 
it had collected the vehicle and told him he could either terminate the HPA early or settle the 
HPA. The contact notes provided by BMWFS showed that all of the options and the figures 
applicable were discussed with Mr C and hed been sent this information by email as well. 
Our investigator said there was no evidence that any other options, such as voluntary 
surrender, were available to Mr C. Our investigator thought Mr C had been able to make an 
informed decision before he decided to request voluntary termination of the HPA.
Mr C disagreed. He said hed been told different things by different advisers. He also said 
hed experienced difficult personal circumstances since this happened and his mental health 
had been impacted. He says he didnt know what his options were until he got the disclosure 
notice from BMWFS in February 2022. When he got this he says he asked to repay the 
remaining amount due to take ownership of the car, but BMWFS refused.
Because Mr C disagreed with what our investigator said, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, Id just like to say Im very sorry to read about the difficult personal 
circumstances which Mr C has recently experienced. 
Ive considered the sequence of events that happened here. Mr Cs car was impounded by 
police. Its not clear whether that was because the vehicle was being driven recklessly by a 
third party or whether it was because the vehicle was uninsured. But, in any event, the police 
appeared to be unwilling to release the vehicle to Mr C. 
The terms and conditions for the HPA stated that Mr C would become the owner of the car if 
he complied with the terms of the agreement and paid the total amount payable under the 
HPA. Until that happened the HPA said that the car would belong to BMWFS. The HPA set 
out the terms Mr C had to comply with including the following obligations:
[You] must keep the vehicle in your possession and under your control
[You must pay for an maintain comprehensive insurance cover for the vehicles full 
value
[You must be covered by the policy to drive the vehicle. You must inform us 
immediately if you become . no longer insured under the policy to drive the 
vehicle
I can see from the notes provided by BMWFS that it prepared a Default Notice in May 2021 
but it acknowledges that notice was not sent to Mr C. It did send him an email at that time 
which stated it intended to issue a Default Notice. The email also stated that Mr C had 
breached the terms and conditions and the Default Notice would allow him 20 days to 
provide:
A signed letter confirming the car was now in his possession;
An insurance certificate in his name;
A V5c in his name; and 
A copy of a receipt signed by police to say that the vehicle had been collected from 
the pound.
The email said that if Mr C was unable to produce the documentation requested BMWFS 
would take steps to end the agreement and recover the vehicle.
Mr C contacted BMWFS a few days later and on several subsequent occasions. He said he 
couldnt guarantee he would get the vehicle within 20 days. Theres also no evidence that he 
provided BMWFS with all of the documentation itd requested in the email it had sent him in 
May 2021. So, Im satisfied, on balance, that BMWFS wouldve been able to treat him as being in breach of the terms and conditions. In these circumstances, the account became 
immediately payable and BMWFS wouldve been able to issue a Default Notice to him. 
BMWFS collected the vehicle from the pound on 22 June 2021. On 29 June 2021, 
Mr C phoned BMWFS again. He asked why payments were still being taken, in 
circumstances where the car had been collected. He said he wanted to end the contract and 
he wanted a settlement figure sent to him by post.
When Mr C hadnt received the settlement figure, he phoned BMWFS again on 5 July. At 
that time he was told that the settlement figure was £13,989.42 and this would be emailed to 
him. Mr C also said the Default Notice hadnt been received. 
BMWFS records indicate that a further Default Notice was prepared on 10 July 2021. But, 
its not clear to me whether it was issued on that date. Mr C says he didnt receive it. So, on 
balance, Im not satisfied that it was issued at this time. Mr C phoned BMWFS again on 13 
July to say he hadnt received the Default Notice.
The phone conversation on 13 July 2021 is important. I asked BMWFS for a copy of that call 
recording but it said that due to the passage of time it hasnt retained a copy. So, Ive only 
been able to consider the notes which BMWFS made about the call at the time, and Mr Cs 
recollection. 
BMWFS records that it went through the options with Mr C. It told him he could:
Voluntarily terminate the agreement early by paying £1,636.96; 
Settle the agreement in full by paying £13,756.16. If he did this he would be able to 
take the car back into his own possession; or
If the Default Notice wasnt satisfied by 29 July 2021 the agreement would be 
terminated by BMWFS, the car would be sold at auction and Mr C would be liable for 
any shortfall. In addition the default would be reported at credit reference agencies 
and would remain on file for six years.
The notes record that Mr C asked for this information to be sent via email. Ive noted that 
following the conversation on 13 July an email was sent to Mr C setting out what had been 
discussed. It set out the options available to Mr C. It said he could:
Settle the full outstanding £13756.16 balance  this will satisfy the Default Notice 
meaning we will not report it against your Credit File. You will also be entitled to take 
the vehicle back into your own possession upon clearing this balance.
Voluntarily Terminate your agreement  this will cost £1636.96. We can look to 
agree a payment plan for the outstanding balance.
If neither of the above two options are satisfied before 29 July 2021, we will terminate 
the agreement and issue a Default on your Credit File which will report for 6 years. 
You will still be liable for any outstanding balances after the vehicle has been sold at 
auction, and these will show against your Credit File
So, Im satisfied, on balance, that the information in the notes accurately recorded what was 
said during the call and this was then confirmed to Mr C in writing. The email also stated that 
a Default Notice would be sent shortly.
BMWFS records also note that Mr C made a further call to it on 27 July 2021 during which 
he asked to go through the voluntary termination process.Shortly after this, on 29 July 2021, BMWFS received an email from Mr C stating that he 
wanted to voluntarily terminate the agreement. 
Having considered the sequence of events, Im satisfied, on balance, that BMWFS had 
made Mr C aware, both orally and in writing, of the options available to him and what each of 
those options meant for him in terms of the ownership of the car. So, Im satisfied he made 
an informed choice when he sent BMWFS the email of 29 July where he stated that he 
wanted to voluntarily terminate the agreement.
BMWFS accepted Mr Cs instruction. It offered to put a repayment plan in place to assist him 
to make the payments required to voluntarily terminate the agreement and I can see it has 
discussed a six month plan and subsequently a 12 month plan to assist Mr C. Because no 
payments have been received, there is a balance outstanding and BMWFS has told Mr C 
this is being reported to credit reference agencies.
Mr C now says that if hed received the Default Notice before sending his email on 29 July, 
he wouldve asked to settle the agreement. But, having looked at the details of what was 
discussed on 13 July and what was set out in the email following that call, Im satisfied Mr C 
had been informed about that option before he made his decision  and he didnt select it. 
He chose instead to inform BMWFS that he wanted to voluntarily terminate the agreement. 
Im also not persuaded, having looked at the information on the Default Notice, that it 
wouldve provided any more details to Mr C than what hed already received. 
The Default Notice stated that the breach of the terms and conditions was not capable of 
remedy. The reason for that was because the breach which had occurred was such that Mr 
C was, in BMWFS reasonable opinion, unlikely to be able to perform his obligations under 
the agreement. Ive referred above to the reasons why that was the case. The Default Notice 
only provided two options  one was to pay the total amount outstanding and the other was 
to voluntarily terminate the agreement. 
Mr C says he was told there was a third option which wouldve allowed the car to be sold at 
auction. He could then have recouped his deposit. But having looked at the documentation, 
theres no evidence to support what hes said. If he hadnt settled the agreement or indicated 
he wanted to voluntarily terminate it, BMWFS couldve terminated the agreement because 
Mr C was in breach of the terms and conditions. In those circumstances, the car would have 
been sold at auction and he wouldve been liable for any shortfall. Its also the case that the 
default wouldve been recorded with credit reference agencies. But, there was no option 
which wouldve allowed Mr C to take control of the car, auction it and then use the proceeds 
to repay the amount outstanding to BMWFS.
Having considered everything here, although I know it will disappoint Mr C, Im not 
persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably. In these circumstances, I dont 
require it to have to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman