DRN-3258127
The complaint
Mr G complained that his claim was unfairly declined under his sofa insurance policy with 
Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta).
What happened
Mr G submitted a claim to Acasta for damage caused to his sofa. Mr G has a pet dog and 
normally covers his leather effect sofa in a blanket to stop the dog scratching it. Mr G said 
his dog managed to remove the blanket when he and his wife were upstairs and then the 
dog scratched the sofa whilst trying to make a bed on it. 
Acastas representative sent out an expert technician to inspect the damage. Acasta 
declined the claim as the technician didnt think the damage was caused by a pet but found 
the damage was the result of cracking and delaminating from wear and tear over time which 
wasnt covered by the terms and conditions of the policy.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought the photographs provided 
supported what the technician said, and she was persuaded by the evidence that Acasta 
had used in declining the claim. Mr G disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Acastas representative arranged for a technician to inspect the damage, which I think is a 
reasonable approach in validating the claim. I will consider whether the decision to decline 
the claim is fair, when reviewing the technicians report and the relevant terms and 
conditions of the policy.
The purpose of the policy that Mr G bought is to make sure your furnitures appearance is 
not spoilt by everyday accidents such as stains, rips, tears or burns. The policy doesnt 
cover any damage resulting from wear or tear. If Acasta has shown the damage to the sofa 
is more than likely from wear and tear, then Ill say it has been fair in declining the claim. I 
have noted the policy does include a specific term in relation to accidental pet damage. The 
terms show pet damage is limited to only one incident during the period of cover. Where 
there have been multiple incidents of pet damage this policy will not respond to any such 
damage.  
I have read the technicians report. The report states the left-hand and right-hand seat 
covers are fraying and cracked. The technician said, its clearly not pet damaged it is 
endurance fabric which is known for this type of wear and tear over time from usage and the 
leather effect de-laminates. The technicians report is accompanied by several photographs 
which support the technicians commentary. Mr G has said his pet caused the damage whilst 
he was upstairs, but Im not persuaded that the amount of damage wouldve been caused in 
such a short space of time. The sofa looks like it has been well used and the damage is 
widespread across the sofa. Therefore, on the balance of probabilities I think its more likely 
the damage was caused by wear and tear, rather than a one-off incident involving a pet, so I 
dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate Mr G said his other sofa wasnt worn in the same way as the damaged sofa he 
claimed for, but I think the evidence provided by the expert technician for the damaged sofa 
is strong and convinces me that a fair decision was reached by Acasta. I havent seen 
sufficient evidence to convince me a pet caused the damage.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Acasta European Insurance 
Company Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman