DRN-3314799
The complaint
Mr H complains about a conditional sale agreement he took out with Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc, to get a used car.
What happened
At the start of 2020, Mr H and a third party, who Ill call A, discussed an arrangement where 
they could make extra income by hiring out a car they had access to. So, in early January 
2020, Mr H says A started an application for a conditional sale agreement with Santander, 
through a dealer for a used car.
Mr H says A handled all the paperwork required for the application and he was taken to the 
dealer a few days later to sign the agreement. Santander says it initially didnt accept the 
signature provided by the dealer on the agreement. But, when Mr H went to the dealer to 
collect the car, his signature was captured again, which Santander accepted.
The first payment was made towards the agreement in March 2020. But, neither Mr H nor A 
made any subsequent payments to Santander, meaning the agreement quickly fell into 
arrears. 
Around the same time, Mr H contacted Santander and told them A had fraudulently taken 
out the agreement in his name. Mr H also says he received a full copy of the agreement in 
the post from Santander and had noticed A had used false employment and income 
information during the application. Santander didnt agree. In a call with Mr H, they said he 
applied for the finance and had allowed A to use the car.
Santander continued to hold Mr H responsible for the repayments due under the agreement. 
So, Mr H complained to Santander to say they hadnt considered his personal 
circumstances. In response, Santander reiterated their view that Mr H had authorised the 
agreement. They said Mr Hs personal details and driving licence were used in the 
application and that the dealer had provided a photograph of him beside the car, after the 
agreement had been signed.
Mr H didnt accept Santanders response and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Hs case and concluded that Santander hadnt treated him fairly. 
She found that it was likely Mr H was aware of the agreement and he had worked with A 
during the application. But, she also said Santander didnt do enough to check Mr H could 
afford the loan repayments and could have repossessed the car soon after Mr H had got it.
The investigator concluded that Santander should allow Mr H to exit the agreement with 
nothing further to pay and for any remaining debt owed to be written off. The investigator 
also said Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file.
Santander didnt agree and said they relied on the information given to them from an outside 
agency, to prove Mr H could afford the repayments. They also said there were reasons why 
they couldnt repossess the car sooner and that ending the agreement wasnt fair, in light of 
Mr Hs arrangement with A.
The investigator didnt change her conclusions, so Mr Hs case has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This case is about an application for a conditional sale agreement, which is a regulated 
financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it.
The application
Mr H says that A handled all the paperwork during the loan application with Santander. He 
says he didnt know anything about the monthly repayment amount and that A took 
advantage of his circumstances at the time. So, Ive considered Mr Hs involvement and his 
awareness of what A had done.
I can see from what Mr H has told Santander and our investigator, that he had reached an 
arrangement with A, over what would happen with the loan and the car, before the 
application was started with the dealer. Additionally, Mr H says he signed the conditional 
sale agreement at the dealers office and understood that A would then make the car 
available for hiring.
The first repayment under the agreement was made at the start of March 2020. Mr Hs bank 
account statements show he received a payment from A for the same amount, shortly before 
the direct debit was paid to Santander. I think this demonstrates that Mr H was aware of the 
conditional sale agreement and the payments that were due. So, Im persuaded Mr H had an 
understanding of the repayments and the agreement in place with Santander.
Overall, Im persuaded Mr H was aware he would be the applicant for the conditional sale 
agreement. I think its likely Mr H understood that he was entering the agreement for the car, 
so A could use it to generate income.
Mr H has told us about his personal circumstances at the time and says A took advantage of 
that. I acknowledge what Mr H has shown us about his personal circumstances to support 
what he says here. And I accept these last few years must have been very troubling and 
difficult for him. Especially as it seems As actions since getting the car, havent turned out 
as Mr H was expecting.
Having considered everything though, I dont think Mr H was coerced into the conditional 
sale agreement. On balance, I think Mr H authorised entering the agreement, so I dont think 
Santander treated Mr H unfairly when they concluded that he hasnt been the victim of fraud. 
But, I can see Mr H was promised things by A, which didnt materialise. And I think this has 
left Mr H, with very serious concerns about the outstanding debt with Santander.
The termination of the agreement
Shortly after the first repayment was made in March 2020, Santanders contact records with 
Mr H show that he told them he felt hed been the victim of fraud. I can see from the records 
Mr H has sent to us, that his arrangement with A had broken down at this point. In so far as 
A wasnt paying him any further money and was using the car for himself. Mr H says other 
than driving the car away from the dealers office, he hasnt had possession of it since.Santander say they terminated the conditional sale agreement in May 2021 and have since 
started the process of repossession. Santander have told us they havent managed to locate 
the car, so it hasnt been sold to reduce the balance owed under the agreement.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Hs agreement with Santander. Under section 4 
- Care of the goods, point 4.4 says:
You will not use or let anyone use the goods illegally. You will not let anyone obtain any 
rights (including liens) over the goods or let anyone take or threaten to take them to pay 
any debt that you owe. You will keep the goods in your possession and under your 
control and will not sell, transfer, mortgage, lend or give the goods to anyone.
Mr H contacted Santander on 21 March 2020 and 29 April 2020 and described what had 
happened with the arrangement with A. It doesnt seem that Santander contacted Mr H 
directly to ask further questions, before they replied with a summary of their review. 
Had Santander done so, I think its likely they would have discovered the whereabouts of the 
car, in that A had possession of it, not Mr H. I also think it follows that the information on the 
whereabouts of the car is likely to have prompted Santander to consider the terms and 
conditions of the agreement with Mr H. 
Other than the first repayment due under the agreement, no further repayments have been 
made by Mr H. This means the agreement was in arrears for more than a year before 
Santander terminated their contract with Mr H in May 2021. And Santander say they have 
yet to repossess the car from A.
Having considered everything, I dont think Santander have treated Mr H fairly here. While I 
acknowledge Santander considered if Mr H had authorised the agreement, I think they 
should have acted sooner to take the car back from him or A.
Santander have told us that concerns surrounding the global pandemic, made repossession 
very difficult from March 2020. While I agree that Santander, like many businesses, faced 
severe disruption at that time, I think they were still able look to terminate Mr Hs agreement. 
I think because of Mr Hs personal circumstances, what he told Santander about the 
application process and that A had taken possession of the car, were exceptional enough for 
Santander to have taken action.
The affordability of the agreement
The relevant regulations and guidance for Santander to have followed are included in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Santander was 
entering a regulated credit agreement and it was required to take reasonable steps to be 
satisfied Mr H would be able to make repayments sustainably without having to resort to 
further finance. 
Checks had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In 
general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number 
of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of Mr H. For example, 
his financial history, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty. The amount, type, length of borrowing and cost of credit 
Mr H applied for would also be considered. 
In light of this, I think the greater the potential risk to Mr H of not being able to repay the 
credit in a sustainable way, the more thorough a reasonable and proportionate check ought 
to have been carried out by Santander.The conditional sale agreement meant Mr H borrowed around £20,000 from Santander to 
get the used car. This was repayable over four years and with interest added, Mr H was 
required to make monthly repayments of around £300.
To assess if Mr H could sustain the repayments, Santander say they asked Mr H about his 
annual income and his employment status. Their records show that Mr H told them his 
income was around £20,000 and that he was self-employed. Santander also say they 
verified Mr Hs income and his credit file information using an outside agency. It was on this 
basis that Santander say they agreed to the borrowing for Mr H.
I think the borrowing is significant, when looking at what Mr H told Santander about his 
annual income. I cannot see that Santander asked Mr H any further questions, or to provide 
documents to prove his income. 
Additionally, I cannot see that Santander looked into Mr Hs regular expenditure, other than 
reviewing the borrowing showing on his credit file. I think given the loan amount and the 
information Santander had before they agreed to the borrowing, further documents and 
details were needed to support what they had been told.
Having considered everything, I dont think Santander completed reasonable or 
proportionate checks to show Mr H could sustain the repayments due under the agreement. 
I accept Santander used an outside agency to verify Mr Hs income information. But in light 
of everything, I still think further detail, such as payslips or bank statements would have done 
more to support the fairness of their lending decision.
So, Ive gone on to consider what further information any further checks by Santander would 
have revealed.
Mr H has provided us with a copy of his credit file and bank account statements for the 
accounts listed, to show what his income was from the time. Mr H has also sent us copies of 
his benefit entitlement and has told us about his personal circumstances in January 2020. 
Having reviewed Mr Hs documents, I can see that his total income when the loan was 
agreed was around £450 a month. Ive said the monthly repayment to Santander under the 
conditional sale agreement was around £300. This means that Mr H was left with around 
£150 a month to cover his living expenses and the associated costs with running a car.
From looking at this information alone, I think Santander would have seen that the 
conditional sale agreement wasnt affordable to Mr H, had further checks been carried out. I 
can see from the loan account statements, that only one repayment was ever made. I think 
this shows that after the loan was put into place, Mr H couldnt sustain the repayments under 
the agreement.
In all the circumstances, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have 
demonstrated that Mr H would not have been able to make the repayments to the loan 
without borrowing further or suffering undue difficulty. And, in these circumstances, I find that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have alerted Santander to the fact that Mr H 
was in no sort of position to make the payments on this loan without suffering significant 
adverse consequences.
Summary
Overall, having considered all the evidence, Im persuaded Mr H was aware of the 
conditional sale agreement and had planned with A to hire the car out to others, to generate 
income. I think Mr H signed the loan agreement forms and took the car from the dealer.However, I think Santander made an unfair decision to lend to Mr H and that they were told 
about As actions within a few months of the agreement starting. On balance, I think 
Santander ought to have started repossession of the car, or to have engaged more about 
what had happened with Mr H in April 2020. 
Santander say the car is still in As possession. Ive concluded that Santander should have 
acted to take the car back in April 2020. We dont know the exact value of the car, at that 
time, but its likely the value has decreased. Should Santander collect the car from A, its 
likely they will be able to sell it, to reduce the balance of Mr Hs loan account.
However, I dont think its fair that Mr H should be responsible for the loss of value. I say this 
because he hasnt driven the car, received payment from A and because Santander delayed 
the repossession. 
So, I think its fair for Santander to end their pursuit of Mr H, for the repayment of the 
outstanding balance owed under the agreement. I also think its fair for Santander to allow 
Mr H to exit the conditional sale agreement with nothing further to pay.
Ive concluded that Santander didnt treat Mr H fairly when they performed checks to see if 
he could afford the repayments due under the conditional sale agreement. So, I think its fair 
for Santander to remove any adverse information about the agreement from the records held 
with credit reference agencies.
Mr H made one payment towards the conditional sale agreement, in March 2020. But, I can 
see from his bank account statements that A covered that payment by making a transfer for 
the same amount. So, I dont think Mr H has suffered a loss here and I think it would be 
unfair for Santander to have to refund that repayment.
Putting things right
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should:
- Allow Mr H to exit the conditional sale agreement with nothing further to pay.
- End the pursuit of Mr H for the outstanding amount due under the conditional sale 
agreement.
- Remove any adverse information about the conditional sale agreement from the 
records held with credit reference agencies.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc needs to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman