DRN-4068092
The complaint
Mrs U has complained about the service she received when she sought assistance under a 
Vehicle Rescue policy. The underwriter of the policy is Ageas Insurance Limited. 
All reference to Ageas in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
Mrs U and her sister drove to a venue for a concert on a Sunday evening. Mrs U discovered 
shed lost her car key and on the way back to the car, called Ageas. This was around 
11.30pm. 
Mrs U opted for a locksmith to attend which Ageas arranged. But when the locksmith called 
Mrs U, they said they couldnt attend until much later. So when Mrs U called Ageas back, it 
arranged a cab for Mrs U and her sister. The cab arrived at around 2am. 
Mrs U said that on Monday evening she hired a car and instructed a locksmith to attend the 
car as it hadnt been recovered by Ageas. Mrs U said she intended to drive the car home 
herself from the location. But when the locksmith arrived, her car wasnt at the location (as 
Ageas had by then recovered it). Mrs U contacted the local council, local impounds and then 
reported the car as stolen to the police. 
Due to the time and shift pattern of the recovery agent, Ageas said Mrs Us car was placed 
in storage on Monday overnight and would be delivered to her on Tuesday. But on Tuesday 
evening the recovery vehicle broke down and so Mrs Us car was returned to storage for a 
second night. 
Mrs Us car wasnt recovered to her until Wednesday mid-morning. Mrs U complained to 
Ageas. She said it had repeatedly promised her car was either about to be recovered, or 
gave timescales for it to be delivered to her home address, but didnt materialise. 
Mrs U said the car lock was damaged. She wanted Ageas to pay £2,000 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience it had caused her and £524.25 for the reimbursement of a 
replacement lock. 
Ageas didnt uphold Mrs Us complaint. It didnt agree it had caused undue delay or a poor 
service in the recovery of her car. It however agreed as a goodwill gesture to waive the costs 
of the specialist equipment needed to recover Mrs Us car which was £190. Under the policy 
terms, this was a cost Mrs U would have needed to pay. 
Our Investigator thought Ageas should pay £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused - and reimburse Mrs U for the costs of one day car hire to reflect the 
delay of a day in recovering her car to her. 
In light of the £190 fee which Ageas had waived, the Investigator thought this covered his 
recommendation of £150 compensation. 
Ageas said it would consider reimbursement of one days car hire depending on how much 
this was. 
Mrs U didnt agree with the Investigators view. She says she wouldnt have had to pay for 
specialist equipment to recover her car if the locksmith she instructed on Monday evening 
had been able to provide replacement keys. She says Ageas wasnt honest with her from the 
outset about the recovery of her car and she doesnt feel we have properly considered the 
impact its poor service - and not knowing where her car was - had on her. 
So Mrs U wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Us policy says the following:
Keys
If you lose, break, or lock your keys within the vehicle, we will pay the callout and 
mileage charges back to the recovery operators base or your home address If 
closer. All other costs including any specialist equipment needed to move the vehicle 
will be at your expense.
So Im satisfied that Mrs U was responsible for the costs of specialist equipment for 
recovering her car. 
I agree with Mrs U that she was advised by Ageas a number of times between the early 
hours of Monday morning until Wednesday morning that her car was either about to be 
recovered, or had been recovered, and was given several estimated times for the delivery of 
her car to her home address. From Ageas notes, the information it received from the 
recovery agent shows that it caused delays and it isnt always clear as to why. But as the 
recovery agent is acting for Ageas, it is responsible for the delays and poor service here. 
I think Ageas failed to manage Miss Us expectations as to when it would recover her car 
and deliver it to her home address - and I think the delay it caused in doing so was by 
around a day and a half. I think a reasonable timeframe to have recovered and delivered Mrs 
Us car to her would have been by either Monday evening or Tuesday at the latest. 
Its reasonable to expect a degree of disruption and inconvenience to daily life when events 
like this happen. Fortunately they arent things that happen every day. I have taken an even 
handed and proportionate approach to what happened, how long the disruption was for, and 
what the impact was. 
While I understand Mrs U says she arranged for a locksmith to attend to her car - and she 
hired a car to drive to the location on Monday evening - its not clear to me why Mrs U took 
these steps and went on to report the car as stolen - given she was aware that Ageas was 
dealing with the recovery of her car from the early hours of the same day. 
But - I think Ageas caused distress and inconvenience over and above what would be 
reasonable - and so I think it should have done something to put things right.
Mrs Us car was recovered to her home address on Wednesday at around 11am. As Mrs Us 
policy says she is responsible for the costs of specialist equipment to recover her car, this 
means Mrs U would have had to pay £190. However, Ageas agreed to waive this cost to 
resolve her complaint. 
The compensation amounts we award are modest and further examples can be found on our 
website. I agree with Mrs U that Ageas is responsible for some poor service and a delay of a 
day and half. But Ive also taken into account that Mrs U was home by 3am. If Ageas had 
handled the claim better, Mrs U would have had her car recovered to her and with the 
assistance of a locksmith been able to use it again by Monday evening or Tuesday. She would however have needed to pay for either the locksmith or the recovery in line with the 
policy. 
Ive no doubt that being left at a location without access to her car at night was a worrying 
experience for Mrs U and her sister. But taking everything into account, I think Ageas 
decision to waive the payment of £190 means the compensation equivalent it has paid is 
within the range I would award for the poor service it provided.
Ageas looked at photos Mrs U provided of the car lock and couldnt see any damage to it. I 
agree. I havent seen any other evidence to persuade me that Ageas decision not to accept 
liability for this damage was unreasonable. 
The Investigator asked Mrs U if she had proof of hiring a car, which she said she did. She 
hasnt provided proof to this service. So, I think a fair outcome - in line with the Investigators 
recommendation - is for Ageas to consider reimbursing Mrs U for the costs of one day hire 
car, subject to reasonable proof of payment, and provided it is a reasonable sum for a car 
similar to the one Mrs U insured with Ageas.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to 
consider the costs of reimbursing Mrs U for one day car hire car costs between Monday 10 
October 2022 and Wednesday 12 October 2022, subject to reasonable proof of payment, 
and provided it is a reasonable sum for a car similar to the one Mrs U insured with Ageas.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms U to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman