DRN-3916783
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account. He would like the account to 
be reopened, an apology and compensation.
Mr A has mentioned his childrens accounts had been closed and his Barclaycard limit had 
been reduced to £300 without notice. These are not complaint that I will be dealing with in 
this decision. Mr A should contact the bank about these issues.
What happened
Mr A had an account with Barclays. He also had an arranged overdraft of up to £1,150. 
Following a review of his account. Mr A received a notice to close letter dated 
9 February 2021, giving him 62 days notice. Mr A complained to Barclays on 
25 February 2021 that his overdraft had been reduced without notice. 
Barclays responded to say they had reviewed his account and decided to close it. The 
overdraft had been removed in light of the review and they relied on the terms and 
conditions to do so.
Mr A complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint. She 
thought Barclays had done nothing wrong when it reviewed and proceeded to close Mr As 
account. She said Barclays werent obliged to give customers prior notice of the restrictions.
Mr A was unhappy with the view he said he had been a customer of Barclays for nearly 20 
years, he thought it was not supportive of Barclays to take this action during the Covid 
pandemic. He had spent a lot of time contacting Barclays to try and sort out the situation. 
Mr A was concerned the sudden removal of the overdraft would impact his credit rating.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr As account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Barclays were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr As account. 
Barclays then decided to close the account. As the investigator explained its generally for 
banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking 
facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a good reason to do so, this service wont 
usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who 
has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. I can see that 
Barclays wrote to Mr A on 9 February 2021 and let him know it was closing his account 
giving him more than 60 days notice. So, Im satisfied Barclays closed the account in line 
with the account terms. And gave Mr A adequate time to open another bank account. As I 
think the closure was fair, I wont be asking Barclays to reinstate the account.
Mr A has said he is a long-standing customer of Barclays, and he hasnt been given a 
reason for the closure. Whilst Mr A may have expected to be given the reasons for the 
closure, Barclays isnt required to give him a specific reason for closing the account. So, 
I cant say Barclays has done anything wrong by not giving Mr A this information  as much 
as hed like to know.
Mr A was unhappy Barclays reduced his overdraft facility without giving him notice. The 
investigator has mentioned that Barclays terms allow it to call in the overdraft without notice 
and the overdraft is payable on demand. I have looked at the terms and the documents 
provided by Barclays, and I cant see that Barclays acted unfairly by reducing the overdraft 
although I accept this was very inconvenient for Mr A.
Mr A is concerned that calling in the overdraft will affect his credit rating. I accept that having 
to pay back the overdraft unexpectedly would be difficult. And Mr A has provided information 
of his personal circumstances at the time, so I know it wasnt easy for him. But as Ive said 
Barclays is entitled to call in the overdraft and if Mr A is unable to pay it on demand that may 
have some impact on his credit file. But as Ive said Barclays havent done anything wrong 
when they reduced his overdraft facility as a result of the review on his account, so I cant 
hold them liable for any likely impact on Mr As credit rating.
Mr A feels Barclays havent supported him when he has been in difficult circumstances. 
Barclays have the duty to treat its customers fairly  its one of the Principles of the FCA 
rules that financial institutions must comply with. But looking at everything I dont think 
Barclays have treated Mr A unfairly by reviewing and closing the account, or by calling in the 
overdraft. It follows I wont be asking them to pay compensation here.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman