DRN-3133792
The complaint
Mr W complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) unfairly declined a claim he made 
on a home emergency insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr W holds a home emergency insurance policy with BG. There was an issue with the 
drains at the property and BG appointed representatives (who Ill refer to as D) to inspect 
these and establish the cause of the issue. No issue was found when D attended but the 
drains were cleaned.
When the same issue reoccurred, Mr W contacted BG again. BG asked D to attend again 
and on visiting D established that a connector pipe had become disconnected. 
BG declined cover for the costs of repairing the pipe. It said that the wrong type of pipe had 
been installed and the policy didnt cover this. Mr W complained but BG said it wouldnt 
cover the claim. 
As Mr W remained dissatisfied, he referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
thought that BG hadnt acted reasonably when it declined cover for Mr Ws claim. BG didnt 
agree and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BG has referred to a condition of the policy which says theres no cover for any faults or 
design faults that:
Were already there when your boiler, appliance or system was installed
Existed when you first took out the product
Weve told you about before and you havent fixed, or, in the case that the work has 
been completed by a third party, where work has not been completed to a 
satisfactory standard
We couldnt reasonably have been expected to know about before. For example, 
faulty pipes that dont have the correct protection, which are buried under concrete 
floors
Or, prevent access because a part of your system has been permanently built over
It seems from its correspondence with our service and Mr W that it relies on the first clause 
in this condition in declining cover for the claim  it says that the pipe which has become 
disconnected is flexible, but it should have been solid. It doesnt seem to be disputed that 
this flexible pipe was installed as part of the drainage system at Mr Ws property.
The issue here is that BG hasnt referred to any guidance, installation guides, requirements 
or regulations which say that a flexible pipe shouldnt be installed in this location. D has said 
that this is the case but I cant see that it has referred to any such guidance. When weve 
asked for the standards or guidance BG has relied on when saying that the installation of the 
flexible pipe constitutes a fault it has only referred to the policy terms and conditions rather 
than any regulations or manufacturers guidance. In the absence of any such evidence, I 
dont think its reasonable for BG to rely on this exclusion.
Im not satisfied that BG has demonstrated that the use of the flexible pipe was an 
installation fault or and so I dont think it can fairly rely on the policy exclusion its referred to. 
I dont think it acted fairly when it declined Mr Ws claim.
In order to put things right, BG will need to reconsider the claim in accordance with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. I understand that Mr W has paid the repair 
costs and so, in the event that BG confirms cover and makes a settlement of his claim, it 
should pay Mr W the amounts he paid for the repairs plus interest at a rate of 8% simple per 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.  
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, British Gas 
Insurance Limited must:
Reconsider the claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
In the event of making a settlement to Mr W, pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per 
year from the date(s) of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman