DRN-4379082
The complaint
Ms B and Mr L complain about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of their claim under 
their buildings insurance policy.   
Ms B has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Ms B or    
Mr L as Ms B throughout the decision  save for when I refer to Mr L in relation to matters 
specific to him.  
What happened
Ms B made a claim to UKI following an escape of water incident at her home in March 2018. 
Ms B says she became concerned about UKIs handling of the claim as they took too long to 
start the drying out works and to remove her contents  which she says led to damage to her 
contents. Ms B says UKI originally agreed to carry out the repair works but changed their 
position a year later and decided to cash settle the claim. Ms B was also concerned that UKI 
refused to settle her contents claim and Alternative Accommodation (AA) claim. So, Ms B 
complained. 
UKI responded and explained they accept there had been delays, specifically in relation to 
removing asbestos, installing drying equipment and removing contents from Ms Bs home. 
They also accepted they shouldve contacted Ms B again following an email sent in July 
2020. UKI said, in line with the policy terms and conditions, they can decide to cash settle a 
claim. They explained their loss adjuster  who Ill refer to as company S  recommended 
they cash settle the claim. UKI explained they wouldnt consider Ms Bs claim for AA as the 
tenancy agreement showed the property Ms B was staying at belonged to Mr L, who is the 
joint policyholder. 
In relation to Ms Bs contents claim, UKI said Ms B only had buildings cover, and not 
contents cover. They said, when Ms B originally took out the policy, she only selected 
buildings cover. They said theyd sent policy documents each year which confirmed the level 
of cover Ms B has and it wouldve been her responsibility to make changes, and include 
contents cover, to make sure the policy met her needs. 
UKI said they therefore cant cover the contents claim, but they accept there had been some 
further damage sustained to contents which remained in the property and offered a goodwill 
gesture towards this. UKI also sent Ms B £350 compensation for the delays.    
Further communication followed and UKI then paid Ms B a cash settlement of £137,526.40 
in August 2022. UKI said this sum was in addition to any sums already paid and was in full 
and final settlement of the claim. UKI provided a breakdown as reinstatement (excl. VAT) - 
£99,466.40, professional fees (excl. VAT) - £5,060, AA - £25,000, and contents - £8,000. In 
relation to the part of the settlement relating to repairs, UKI explained theyd applied a 10% 
uplift to factor in the recent fluctuation in building costs. Ms B felt this didnt represent a fair 
settlement, so she referred her complaint to our service. 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Ms B and Mr L and UKI on 17 August 2023. In my provisional decision I said as follows:  
    
I can see extensive representations have been made by Ms B, Mr L and UKI. My 
role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the 
main areas of dispute. If I havent commented on any specific points, its because I 
dont believe they change what I think is a fair outcome here.  
Decision not to carry out repair works and offer a cash settlement
The first area of dispute Ive looked at is UKIs decision not to carry out repair works. 
I understand Ms B is concerned UKI originally agreed to carry out repairs  and even 
appointed agents to manage the repairs - but then decided to cash settle the claim a 
year later. Ms B says UKI informed her they can make this decision at any point. 
My starting point is Ms Bs buildings insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms 
and conditions and, under a heading How we settle claims it says, UKI will choose 
to manage and pay for repairing or rebuilding the damaged part using our own 
suppliers, pay to repair or rebuild the damaged part using your suppliers, or make a 
cash payment. So, while the terms and conditions do allow UKI to settle the claim by 
making a cash payment, Ive thought about whether thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Once an insurer has commenced repairs, we consider that theyve entered into a 
repair contract with the policyholder  in essence, an agreement has been reached 
where the claim will be settled by repairing the damage. Thats important because if 
things go wrong or if something unexpected arises  for example, the repair is much 
more complicated and/or much more expensive than the insurer first realised  we 
generally say the insurer cant turn back the clock and seek to settle the claim on 
another basis e.g. by paying cash. So Ive looked to see whether UKI had started any 
repairs. 
Theres no dispute that UKI appointed company S to manage the claim, and they in 
turn appointed a company to start assessing the repairs which included drafting 
schedule of works. I can see other agents were appointed to carry out asbestos 
testing and removal, drying works and also contents removal. But I cant see UKI  or 
any of the agents  started carrying out any building repairs. I dont disagree it was 
UKIs intention initially to carry out the repairs because I can see schedule of works 
were prepared. But, given that building repairs never started, and the terms and 
conditions allow UKI to cash settle the claim, I dont think it was unfair for them to 
offer this. 
I think its important to also take into account UKIs reason for changing their position. 
Looking at the information provided, which includes all correspondence involving Ms 
B, UKI and company S, its clear there was a breakdown in relationship here. 
Company S contact UKI over a year into the claim and explain theyve encountered 
challenges in handling the claim. They explain Ms B continues to disagree and 
dispute the schedule of works and scope of repairs. Company S say its agent had 
already attended Ms Bs property twice to discuss the schedule of works in detail with 
Ms B and answer all queries. Company S say, despite every effort by it and its 
agents to resolve any issues and alleviate any concerns, Ms B continues to dispute 
the schedule of works. Company S say, they agreed to attend the property one final time to go through 
every item in the schedule of works. Company S also refer to spending five hours 
during a site meeting to go through the schedule of works on a line-by-line basis to 
enable Ms B to raise any queries. Company S say this is preventing it from 
progressing the claim and also explain its reasons for why it believes Ms B doesnt 
trust it to carry out the repairs, and company S then recommend cash settling the 
claim. Its clear from further communication between UKI and company S, they agree 
the relationship has broken down and a cash settlement would allow Ms B to get the 
repairs done using her own contractors. I do understand Ms B feels its unfair for UKI 
to change their position on settlement from repair to cash payment. But from the 
information Ive seen, I dont think their view that the relationship had broken down 
was unreasonable and, given the building repairs hadnt yet started at that point, I 
dont think it was unfair for them to settle the claim by way of cash payment. 
I note Mr L says, up until UKI sent a cash settlement breakdown in 2022, Ms B was 
continuously led to believe UKI would be carrying out repairs. Mr L refers to an email 
sent by company S in February 2022 which refers to arranging a site meeting to 
facilitate a full inspection of the property throughout, enabling us to review with 
you all the elements that need consideration and finalise the schedule of building 
repairs and redecoration. I agree this email does refer to the schedule of works for 
repairs, but it doesnt say the purpose of the site meeting or preparation of the 
schedule of works is for UKI to carry out the repairs. I think UKI had already made 
their position on cash settlement clear in March 2019 so, beyond this point, I dont 
agree UKI continued to lead Ms B to believe they would carry out the repairs. And 
while I agree a fourth schedule of works was prepared, this was to help UKI agree a 
scope of works in order to calculate a cash settlement.     
Settlement amount for the repairs 
UKI have provided a breakdown setting out how they arrived at the cash settlement 
amount. Its clear there was a tendering process, and they used the figures provided 
by their suppliers to calculate the costs to settle the repairs. UKI then added a 10% 
uplift to this which they say takes into account the recent upwards fluctuation of 
building costs and materials. I understand UKI have applied the uplift in an effort to 
achieve a resolution, but I dont think this achieves a fair resolution for Ms B. I say 
this for a number of reasons. 
Firstly, I dont think its fair in the circumstances of this complaint for UKI to base the 
cash settlement on their supplier rates. As mentioned above, UKI can offer a cash 
settlement. And the terms and conditions say, We wont pay more than the amount it 
would have cost us to repair or rebuild the damaged part using our own suppliers. 
But in this case, while I acknowledge UKIs reasons for changing their position, I think 
its important here that Ms B had never declined UKIs original offer to carry out 
repairs. 
Secondly, Ive seen no information or explanation for why a 10% uplift is fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint, or even on more general terms, why its considered 
to be a fair percentage to recognise rising costs in the building industry. Ive seen the 
tender results and note UKI looked at three different quotes. The one theyve used to 
calculate the cash settlement is from a supplier and provides the lowest quote of the 
three. Theres then an industry benchmark quote  which is the highest. When 
looking at these two quotes, the industry benchmark quote is more than 10% higher 
than the quote used by UKI. So, this further persuades me the 10% uplift applied by 
UKI isnt fair. Insurers often have arrangements with suppliers that mean they can get things 
repaired for less than the market rate a consumer might pay. So, the cost to an 
insurer will likely be different to what a consumer will pay to arrange the same 
repairs. As UKI have decided to change their position  without Ms B specifically 
declining any offer to repair  I think the amount UKI offer to cash settle the claim 
should reflect the cost to Ms B of getting the repairs done. And in this case, that 
means all calculations which UKI have based on their supplier rates should instead 
be based on current market rates. I dont think its fair for UKI to use rates which are 
not only based on their agreed supplier rates, but to use figures which were agreed a 
significant period before they were communicated to Ms B. As accepted by UKI, 
things have since moved on in the building industry, including the price of materials 
and labour. And I think a fair approach here would therefore be for UKI to use current 
market rates. That will ensure Ms B will likely receive an amount based on the rates 
she will be quoted when arranging the repairs. I dont think its unfair for UKI to use 
the scope they have when they carried out their calculation for a cash settlement, but 
the settlement should be recalculated using current market rates.    
I can see our investigator has recommended UKI increase the 10% uplift based on 
the industry benchmark amount and pay the difference between what has been paid 
and the new amount. But I dont think its fair in the circumstances for UKI to apply a 
10% uplift on the market rates. The reason for UKI applying the uplift was because 
they acknowledged the time period between them getting their supplier rates and 
then putting an offer to Ms B  so this uplift was to account for the increase in 
building costs between that period. But, as UKI will be settling the claim based on 
current market rates, that will take into account any increases which have occurred. 
So, I wont be asking UKI to apply any additional uplift. 
Alternative accommodation 
I can see Ms Bs policy does cover AA  up to a limit of £50,000. UKI have paid 
£25,000 towards AA costs. I can see Ms B feels this is unreasonable as she has 
provided tenancy agreements to UKI  the first of which has been signed and dated 1 
April 2018. This shows the rent is £2,500 per month, so Ms B says her AA costs are 
significantly higher than the amount paid by UKI. So, given theres an additional 
amount of £25,000 available to Ms B under the policy, Ive looked to see whether UKI 
have acted reasonably. 
I can see AA costs were first mentioned by UKI in September 2018  at this point 
company S inform UKI that Ms B is living with Mr L at his property and hasnt 
incurred any AA costs. Its looked at again in November and again company S inform 
UKI Ms B is still living with   Mr L and hasnt incurred any AA. From notes provided by 
UKI, it appears Ms B raised AA with company S in May 2019 at which point she 
explained shed been renting and for this to be backdated to April 2018. This is 
discussed by UKI and company S in October at which point a concern is raised that 
Ms B had previously never discussed any AA arrangements with them. 
UKI then, and as part of their consideration of a cash settlement amount, look into 
the AA costs again and note the AA costs relate to a property which forms part of Mr 
Ls late fathers estate  and Mr L is the joint policyholder. UKI note, before they 
consider this, they need the Executor of the estate to provide details of the sum of 
rent theyre seeking and the period of time, and details of the nature of the 
agreement. They raise a concern that the AA costs are significantly backdated and 
its usual for insurers to be involved in the selection of a suitable property for AA and 
to agree those costs prior to the insured taking up residency  and that hasnt happened here. UKI note, despite numerous requests, theyre yet to receive this 
information.  
UKI look at AA costs again and refer this part of the claim to their claims validation 
team as Mr L has a financial interest in the house UKI insure - and it appears the AA 
is Mr Ls late fathers house and he is allegedly charging Ms B. UKI say they may 
consider AA costs once they receive a response from their claims validation team 
and once an explanation is received as to why tenancy agreements were only sent to 
UKI in March 2020 despite allegedly being signed on 1 April 2018 and 1 April 2019, 
as well as evidence of payments. The claims validations team then decline this part 
of the claim on the basis Ms B and Mr L have signed a tenancy agreement for a 
property which appears to have been inherited by Mr L  and being the joint 
policyholder, they dont believe there has been any financial loss. And also, because 
the agreements were presented to UKI so late in the day. 
Then in June 2022, when UKI are calculating the breakdown of the cash settlement, 
they still dont accept the AA costs claim based on the concerns they have. They 
explain, had accurate details of the arrangements been provided at the outset, 
appropriate agreements couldve been established between them and Ms B. But they 
acknowledge a disturbance allowance payment should be made in line with the 
policy. UKI say, without prejudice, assuming instructions had been given to the 
contractors, and had they been allowed to progress the works, the works couldve 
been completed by July 2020. UKI say, based on the information supplied at the 
outset of the claim, the policy would cover a contribution towards expenses of £10 
per day, per person, from the date of loss  and Ive seen the calculation they 
completed for this. So, they assess a reasonable allowance for this would be 
£25,000.    
  
Taking this all into account, I dont think UKI have acted unfairly in paying £25,000 
and treating the payment as a disturbance allowance. I acknowledge Ms B believed 
the repairs wouldve been completed within three to six months, so I think after six 
months Ms B wouldve known things were taking longer. And at this point, I cant see 
UKI were informed about any potential AA costs. That didnt happen until just after a 
year into the claim  with a tenancy agreement then provided around 10 months later 
for costs incurred from April 2018. Therefore, I dont think UKI are being 
unreasonable in taking the view that they shouldve been notified of this at the outset 
and to have been given an opportunity to consider any suitable AA arrangements. 
And, I dont think its unfair for them to question why the tenancy agreements were 
provided so late in the claim. I also dont think theyve acted unfairly in declining this 
part of Ms Bs claim given theyve asked for specific evidence, such as payments 
made, and I cant see this has been provided. 
Ive also seen information which shows Mr L was the Executor of his late fathers 
estate. In relation to the property which Ms B is claiming AA for, the first registration 
of Mr Ls title to this property was completed in May 2018. Ms B says this property 
was then being prepared for sale or rental so an income could be received for the 
beneficiaries of Mr Ls late fathers estate. Ms B says shed also planned to place her 
property on the rental market. Ms B says there has been a financial loss to her in 
relation to both properties. In relation to her own, she has lost out on rental income, 
and in relation to the AA property, she has incurred rental costs. Ive already 
explained above why I dont believe UKI have acted unfairly in not covering the AA 
rent for Mr Ls property. In relation to Ms Bs property, UKI say, in order to consider 
cover for any rental income, Ms B would need to demonstrate her property was on 
the market for rental otherwise UKI cant consider this as financial loss. So I dont 
think UKI are acting unreasonably here.  Delays 
UKI accept there were delays caused by their suppliers. They agree there was delay 
in getting the asbestos removed, drying equipment being installed and the contents 
being removed. I can see UKI paid Ms B £350 compensation  and I think thats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Its clear the whole process has taken significantly longer than it shouldve. But, I 
dont think the delays can be wholly attributable to UKI. The information Ive seen 
shows there has been a number of disagreements throughout the claim. One area of 
disagreement was around the schedule of works which Ive already referred to 
above, as well as explaining how this was one of the reasons which led to UKI 
offering a cash settlement. I can see Ms B raised queries about the schedule of 
works  and I dont think its unreasonable for a consumer to raise queries 
concerning the repairs to be carried out on their property. But Ms B attended the site 
meetings when the schedule of works were being prepared and, as UKI have 
mentioned, this gave Ms B an opportunity to raise any queries in person so that the 
claim could proceed. But I can see there were still disagreements following the site 
meetings.  
Another area of disagreement was around the contents. While UKI accept there was 
a delay in removing the contents, I can see Ms B wasnt happy about her contents 
not being cleaned and PAT tested. UKI didnt feel this was reasonable as Ms B didnt 
have contents cover. I can see this continues for several months, and even after the 
contents are removed. 
Ive also seen there was disagreement about an area of damage to Ms Bs wall. I can 
see two of UKIs appointed experts were instructed to comment on this area of 
damage and whether it was linked to the escape of water. Both found it was likely a 
pre-existing condition or as a result of roof spread. I can see Ms B disagreed and UKI 
agreed to Ms B instructing her own expert. Ms Bs appointed expert then prepared a 
report following a site meeting and their report found that the issue does relate to the 
escape of water and recommended the schedule of works include repositioning of 
the straps. UKI still disputed the issue was linked, but I can see they agreed to the 
additional strapping and plaster repair to the cracking of the flank wall, even though 
they didnt consider this to be directly attributable to the original escape of water. So I 
think UKI have acted reasonably here. 
One area where I think there has been significant delay caused by UKI relates to the 
cash settlement terms  I think UKI took too long to present Ms B with a cash 
settlement proposal. Ive seen company S first started recommending a cash 
settlement to UKI in February 2019 and they write to Ms B the following month to 
propose this. Company S then continue recommending this to UKI over the next few 
months. UKI and company S then do some calculations to work out the value of the 
cash settlement in October. 
Despite this, and there being continued discussions with company S, I cant see UKI 
then formally offer a cash settlement to Ms B until July 2020. And its almost two 
years later in July 2022 that UKI then provide a detailed breakdown of the cash 
payment being offered. I acknowledge UKI were at times waiting for Ms B to provide 
responses, but UKI are the experts here and would be expected to manage the claim 
in a manner which ensures decisions are made promptly. Ive also seen UKI had concerns about offering a cash settlement without sorting out 
reinstatement of the water, heating and electricity services. But Ive seen company S 
did propose a resolution for this as far back as April 2020 which was to cash settle 
now, with the caveat that, any additional costs for plumbing, heating and electrics 
would be covered upon provision of validated invoices for these works from any 
contractors appointed by Ms B. I can see company S reached this view as it had put 
queries to a plumber and electrician but wasnt getting a response from them. So, at 
this stage, company S appear to be encouraging UKI to cash settle based on the 
rates and scope they do have, but subject to UKI meeting any additional costs if the 
end amount for the plumbing and electrical works exceeds their cash offer for this 
part of the work. 
Despite this, it took over two years for UKI to present Ms B with a cash settlement 
amount and breakdown. I acknowledge UKI say, in the interim, Ms B took 17 months 
to respond to their email in July 2020. But I dont believe this shouldve prevented 
UKI from presenting    Ms B with a settlement amount and terms. I say this for two 
reasons. Firstly, their email explains UKI will be cash settling the claim and, while it 
does ask Ms B to provide a response, its clear from the information Ive seen, a 
decision had already been made to proceed with this. So, I dont believe a lack of 
response from Ms B prevented UKI from taking this forward  particularly as theyre 
the experts here and are expected to manage the claim fairly and promptly. 
Secondly, I can see UKI review the claim in December 2020 and calculate a cash 
settlement amount based on tender results obtained over a year before. So its clear 
calculations were being done at this stage, yet no specific settlement terms were put 
to Ms B until July 2022. I acknowledge the notes show Ms B was challenging the 
third schedule of works around this time, but I dont think this shouldve prevented 
UKI from sharing their calculations with Ms B or even considering an interim payment 
while further discussions mightve taken place about the schedule of works. I cant 
see any substantive progress was made until a fourth schedule of works was 
completed in March 2022. I think its also important to add this was after Ms B 
complained in December 2021.  
So, taking this into account, I think UKI should pay compensation for the upset and 
frustration caused to Ms B  and I think an additional £650 is fair and reasonable 
here. 
 
Contents damage and storage    
Ms B says UKIs delays in carrying out drying works and removal meant her contents 
were left in damp conditions which led to them becoming damaged. Ms B has 
provided a list of all contents she says were damaged by UKI and feels they should 
cover the cost of these. 
Theres no dispute here that Ms B only had buildings cover through her policy with 
UKI, and not contents cover. I can see company S also did let Ms B know at the 
outset of the claim that her policy didnt provide cover for her contents. So, while I 
dont think its unreasonable for UKI to decline Ms Bs contents claim on the basis 
they dont provide cover, Ive looked to see whether UKI are responsible for any of 
the damage caused while they were handling the claim. 
Ms B says, around two months into the claim, she started raising concerns about the 
presence of mould in the property  and the affect this could be having on her 
contents. Despite this, the drying out works didnt start until over three months after 
Ms B reported the incident. And I can see some contents were removed seven 
months later, with the remainder removed three months later. UKI accept there were delays in arranging this. But they explain theyre responsible for removing items to 
facilitate repairs to be carried out  so they didnt have a duty to remove any contents 
until, and unless, repair work started. 
I can see the asbestos testing didnt take place until just over a month after Ms B 
reported the claim and the asbestos removal didnt then take place until around six 
weeks later. Around two weeks later the carpets are removed and the drying out 
works start in June 2018. I can see UKIs agent was able to move some contents 
around into different rooms during the drying process  so I dont think UKI needed to 
remove them at this stage as no repairs had started. The drying works were 
completed in August. Following this, I can see there was discussion around items 
which were beyond economical repair with company S saying theyll be disposing of 
any such items and arranging removal of only the unaffected items. UKI then get a 
quote for removal and storage of contents but they believe its too expensive, so they 
then look to source a local company. The information shows Ms B wasnt happy to 
use an alternative company so UKI then instructed the company who provided the 
quote. A beyond economical repair assessment was carried out and some items 
were then removed in January 2019, and the remainder removed in April. 
Theres no dispute there were delays in arranging the removals  and this has been 
factored into UKIs payment of compensation. I acknowledge Ms B was raising 
concerns about her contents being left in the property and any further deterioration 
which might be caused to her contents. But I havent seen any evidence any 
damage, which Ms B says was caused, resulted from these delays rather than the 
escape of water incident. From the information Ive seen, its clear company S had 
early concerns about contents being beyond economical repair. So, it does appear 
some contents were damaged as a result of the escape of water. 
I can see Ms B asked about items being PAT tested, but I dont think UKI have acted 
unfairly in declining this. Firstly, Ms B didnt have contents cover so UKIs 
responsibility was limited to removal in order to facilitate repair works. And secondly, 
UKI say there is no way of identifying if the electrical items had become more badly 
damaged over time, and even if theyd PAT tested them, no matter when that was, all 
that would tell them is whether the electrical item was in working order, and not how it 
became to be malfunctioned, if that is the case. 
I can see UKI did make it clear early into the claim that any cleaning, drying and/or 
restoration of contents was Ms Bs responsibility as she didnt have contents cover. 
So, in the same way I cant say with any certainty whether the damage was caused 
by the delay in removal or the original escape of water, I also cant rule out the 
possibility any further deterioration mightve been caused by the items not being 
cleaned or dried, or any restoration not having taken place sooner. I acknowledge Ms 
B says there wasnt any water or electricity in her property, but as mentioned above, 
it also wasnt UKIs responsibility to carry this out. I can see UKI have, in their cash 
settlement, paid £8,000 towards contents damage as a gesture of goodwill  and I 
think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   
I note Mr L refers to an email dated 19 July 2020 in which he says UKI accept their 
delays caused damage to the building and contents. Mr L says this is an admission 
by UKI that theyve caused the further damage to the contents. Ive seen this email 
and note UKI say theyre aware the impact of the delays would be further damage to 
the property and contents. UKI then follow this up by saying they pointed out from the 
start that contents werent covered. The email says UKI agree to deal with damage to the carpets as a goodwill gesture 
and they would consider a further payment for damage to contents. UKI say the 
contents are Ms B and Mr Ls responsibility and action shouldve been taken by them 
to prevent damage. I dont believe this is an unequivocal acceptance by UKI to meet 
the cost of all contents damage  and its clear from the email UKI would be taking 
legal advice about this part of the claim. UKI then agreed to pay £8,000. I do agree 
with Mr L that UKI appear to be accepting further damage occurred to contents as a 
result of the delays. But, beyond what theyve already paid, I cant ask them to meet 
the full costs Ms B is claiming because, as mentioned above, I cant say the damage 
to all of those items was as a direct result of the delay rather than the escape of 
water.   
I understand UKI are still paying for the storage costs of Ms Bs contents  and have 
done since April 2019. Looking at the policy, I can see there is cover for storage 
costs, but this is under the contents cover section  which Ms B doesnt have. I cant 
see theres any cover for this under the buildings cover section. Given that UKI have 
been meeting these costs, I cant say theyve acted unreasonably. I can see UKI say, 
going forward, Ms B will need to make arrangements to take delivery of her contents 
as its unfair for them to continue paying for storage after theyve cash settled her 
claim. I accept UKI have made a payment to Ms B but, for the reasons explained 
above, I dont agree its a fair settlement. So, once a settlement amount has been 
paid to Ms B, in line with the decision Ive made, I think its fair and reasonable for 
UKI to then work with Ms B and Mr L to arrange delivery of their contents.   
As mentioned above, there are extensive representations made by all parties here. I 
wish to reassure Ms B, Mr L and UKI Ive read and considered everything theyve 
sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt 
because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to 
reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service.
So, subject to any further comments from Ms B and Mr L or UKI, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.   
Following my provisional decision, Ive received extensive representations from Ms B and 
UKI. As Ive mentioned, my role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled 
quickly and with minimal formality and so Ive focussed on what I consider to be the crux of 
the complaint and the main areas of dispute. I think its important to add, I wont be 
commenting on every event and each representation made, instead I have taken a broad 
approach to the overall service provided. I think its also important to address UKIs request 
for a telephone call. I have considered this, but Im satisfied UKI have clearly set out their 
points of dispute so I dont think it would be necessary in the circumstances to have a 
telephone call.   
In relation to UKIs decision to not carry out repairs and offer a cash settlement, Ms B 
maintains its not fair for UKI to change their decision from repairs to cash settlement. Ms B 
says UKI commenced building repairs with a plumbing repair in June 2018. She says a 
plumber repaired the pipe in the loft that had split, and which caused the original escape of 
water.  Ms B believes this relates to reinstatement work. Ms B says flooring was also 
removed in June 2018 and then 40 holes were drilled into the walls to allow for moisture 
level monitoring. 
Ms B says 12 months after the escape of water, UKI employed plumbers and electricians to 
repair the heating and water systems that had been damaged by the escape of water and 
formed part of the schedule. Ms B also refers to repairs carried out to the central heating system. On this basis, Ms B says UKI cant justify changing to a cash settlement when theyd 
already started to carry out repairs. 
Ms B says, despite information showing UKI and company S were giving serious thought to 
a cash settlement, UKI didnt at any time during this period inform her theyd definitely 
changed their mind from repairs to cash settlement. Ms B says the position wouldve been 
more understandable had UKI started with a cash settlement offer, but she feels its unfair to 
change their settlement proposal a year later. 
Ms B accepts she did continue to dispute the schedule of works, but she says her 
commentary was ignored. Ms B says the breakdown of relationship between her and UKI 
started when company S realised how much damage had been caused to the property and 
the uninsured contents when they attended the property in January 2019, and their refusal to 
accept that delays in drying out had caused further deterioration of the property and 
contents. 
Ms B says she has always wanted UKI to carry out the repairs and she had every faith in 
them carrying out the repairs. She says she took all steps to ensure things ran smoothly 
between her and UKI and company S. Ms B says she has never declined UKIs offer to carry 
out repairs. She says company S decided she was being difficult when she wasnt satisfied 
with the continual lack of agreement around what repairs were to be done. 
In relation to the settlement amount for repairs, Ms B says if its decided that a cash 
settlement is reasonable here then it must be based on market rates. Ms B refers to the 
flooring allowance contained in the schedule being insufficient as she has received a higher 
quote for the flooring. 
For this part of the complaint, UKI say its not the role of our service to decide if, and when, 
the policy contract applies and when it doesnt. UKI say the policy allows them to cash settle 
a claim, so by offering this theyre acting in line with the contract of insurance  and this 
allows them to cash settle the claim on the amount of the lowest tender. 
UKI say, the cash settlement of £137,526.40 was paid to Ms B on 2 August 2022 yet she 
has continued to insist that UKI should carry out the repairs. They say Ms B hasnt 
completed any work to the property which will likely have caused further damage to the 
property. They also say the fact that Ms B hasnt had any work carried out despite receiving 
a cash settlement will have a detrimental impact now on the rates being charged. 
UKI say a recommendation has been made based on a presumption, and not evidence or 
facts. UKI say our service should be requesting evidence from Ms B in terms of quotations 
and details of work being carried out before a decision can be made on what is fair and 
reasonable. UKI say theyve paid provisional costs that Ms B might not have even incurred 
yet theyre being asked to increase the settlement amount. UKI say the decision is unfair as 
Ms B might not even incur these fees and would financially benefit from the claim. UKI say it 
would be unfair to request they recalculate their schedule of repairs without any evidence of 
costs/estimates being presented by Ms B. 
In relation to the AA, Ms B says, at the time of the event, the property where shes living 
wasnt in Mr Ls name and the matter wasnt concluded until August 2018 when the Land 
Registry returned the relevant documentation. Ms B says when she was asked by company 
S during a site meeting in April 2022 whether any money had been paid to the beneficiaries 
for rent, she answered no as she didnt have the money to pay rent and was waiting for UKI 
to pay this. Ms B says there are now legal proceedings ongoing which includes a claim for 
rent. She says the beneficiaries are now taking legal action as the AA property was to be 
rented out to provide an income for the beneficiaries. Ms B says she did contact UKI in May 2019 to let them know the executor and beneficiaries 
were wanting rent for the property as, what was supposed to be a 3-6 months arrangement, 
turned into something longer. Ms B says she was asked to provide tenancy agreements 
which she did and then, during a conversation in July 2019, UKI said they would backdate 
any claim for AA so Ms B doesnt lose out financially. 
For the AA part of the complaint, UKI say our service hasnt questioned Ms B on why a 
signed tenancy agreement was submitted to them over two years after the claim and after it 
was signed stating Ms B would pay £2,500 per month to Mr L, the joint policyholder, when in 
fact Ms B made no payments of this amount to Mr L. 
    
In relation to delays, Ms B doesnt feel the £350 offered for the initial four-month delay is 
reasonable. Ms B says this period of delay led to damage to her property and contents. Ms B 
also says its not reasonable given the rental value of her property was £5,000 per month. 
Ms B also doesnt feel the £650 being directed in reasonable. Ms B also says the point about 
her insisting on PAT testing isnt true and she was fully aware PAT testing wouldnt be 
carried out. Ms B says Mr L did the PAT testing himself. 
I can see Ms B says she asked company S before the March 2022 meeting, and before the 
fourth schedule was prepared, what the purpose of the meeting was, as well as the agenda. 
Ms B says the response she received back contained no reference to this being a meeting to 
agree a scope of works in order to calculate a cash settlement. Ms B says there was no 
mention of a cash settlement before, during, or after the site meeting. Ms B says it took three 
years from when UKI first mentioned a cash settlement to then provide a detailed breakdown 
of the cash settlement and four years from the start of the claim. 
For the delay part of the complaint, UKI say the cash settlement was paid to Ms B in 2022 
because, in 2020 the schedule of repairs was still being disputed by Ms B following the joint 
site visit. UKI say they calculated a cash settlement figure but this was never presented to 
Ms B as she didnt agree to the repair schedule. UKI say they wouldnt have been treating 
Ms B fairly if they were to make a cash settlement offer and then payment knowing the 
schedule of repairs wasnt agreed. They say this is evidenced by their email in July 2020 
which Ms B didnt respond to until December 2021. UKI say they dont agree to any further 
award of compensation as the reason for the delay in the cash settlement is down to Ms B 
receiving an email in July 2020 but not responding until December 2021. 
In relation to the contents damage part of the complaint, Ms B says she asked company S 
what she should do about the uninsured contents. She says they informed her UKI would 
arrange for the contents to be assessed for any items beyond economical repair and any 
undamaged items would be taken into storage to facilitate the drying out works. Ms B says 
she was told not to move anything. Ms B says company S assured her damaged contents 
would be listed and disposed of and would be done in consultation with Ms B. Ms B says in 
March 2018, condensation had already formed and was running down the windows  but 
company S informed her to leave everything where it was, and their contractor would 
determine how to deal with contents not affected by the escape of water. 
Ms B says she raised a complaint in April 2018 as no progress was being made and she 
was concerned with mould growing on the walls and ceilings. She says there was also an 
awful smell, and the furniture was showing signs of mould growth. Ms B says UKI reassured 
her that she didnt need to worry and damage to any contents would be taken into 
consideration if items were damaged because of delays. 
Ms B says early into the claim the majority of the uninsured contents hadnt been damaged 
by the water and some were moved to drier areas of the property. Ms B refers to an email 
from company S in October 2018 where they say they agree to deal with the damage to the carpets as a gesture of goodwill and to consider a payment towards contents that have been 
damaged beyond repair due to the delay in the claim. Ms B says she isnt claiming for 
uninsured contents damaged by the initial escape of water. She says its reasonable though 
for UKI to pay for all contents damaged as a consequence of UKIs delays. 
Ms B says she was never informed that contents would only be removed once repairs 
started. She says she was informed UKIs contractor would attend to determine which 
contents could go into storage and which couldnt. Ms B says this was delayed and when 
some contents were eventually removed in January 2019 to her AA address, they were 
found to be damaged. Ms B says £3,000 of the £8,000 is for carpets and she doesnt believe 
the remaining £5,000 is sufficient to cover contents damaged by UKIs delays. 
UKI say they feel its unfair for them to have paid £23,107.50 in storage costs purely 
because Ms B failed to respond for a 17 month period, despite knowing the contents werent 
insured and had failed in her duty of care to take appropriate action.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above, as 
well as the reasons set out below.
Decision not to carry out repair works and offer a cash settlement
I do acknowledge Ms Bs comments about the work which was carried out  and whether 
some of this falls within the scope set out in the schedule of repairs. Even if some of the 
work did relate to reinstatement, I dont believe it makes UKIs decision to offer a cash 
settlement unreasonable. I say this because its clear from the information Ive seen there 
has been a breakdown in relationship here. 
As Ive mentioned above, Ive seen communications between Company S and UKI over a 
year into the claim where they explain theyve encountered challenges in handling the claim. 
They explain Ms B continues to disagree and dispute the schedule of works and scope of 
repairs and this is impacting their ability to progress matters. I accept Ms B says she was 
asking questions as would be expected from any homeowner, but its clear company S felt 
things were being held up and the relationship had broken down. I note Ms B believes the 
breakdown in relationship  and the decision to offer a cash settlement  occurred when UKI 
realised the extent of the damage to her property, but Ive seen no evidence which 
persuades me this was the case.  
In relation to Ms Bs point about UKI changing their settlement terms a year into the claim, I 
accept why this was frustrating for Ms B. As mentioned, and in the circumstances of this 
case, I cant say UKI have acted unfairly. I acknowledge Ms Bs point about the position 
being more understandable if UKI had started off with a cash settlement. I agree this would 
provide a customer with more certainty right from the outset, but in this case, I can see UKIs 
original position and intention was to carry out repairs, so I understand why a cash 
settlement wasnt offered at the outset. 
I note Ms Bs concern about there being meetings and communications between her and 
UKI during the period UKI and company S were thinking about a cash settlement, and this 
not being communicated to her at the time. I accept this is something which caused frustration for Ms B, and thats why Ive upheld this part of the complaint relating to the delay 
in informing Ms B about the cash settlement breakdown.  
I acknowledge Ms B always wanted UKI to carry out the repairs  and she still wants them to 
carry out the reinstatement work. I know Ms B never declined UKIs offer to carry out repairs, 
but that doesnt mean, in the circumstances, that its unreasonable for UKI to offer a cash 
settlement. 
Settlement amount for the repairs 
In relation to Ms Bs point about the cash settlement needing to be based on market rates, I 
acknowledge Ms Bs point, and I recognise the allowance for the flooring will be less than 
what Ms B has been quoted as the schedule is based on UKIs supplier rates. Given that Ive 
decided its fair in the circumstances for UKI to base the settlement on market rates, this will 
ensure Ms B is given a fair settlement which takes into account the likely costs she will incur 
in arranging the repairs.  
I acknowledge UKIs points about their contractual terms and the fact that the policy allows 
them to cash settle a claim based on their own supplier rates. I accept the policy terms and 
conditions do say UKI wont pay more than the amount it wouldve cost them to repair any 
damage using their own suppliers. But Ive determined this complaint based on whats fair 
and reasonable and taking into account the specific facts of this case. And in this case, given 
that Ms B has never declined UKIs offer to carry out the repairs, I dont think its reasonable 
in the circumstances for UKI to base the settlement amount on their supplier rates. 
UKI say theyve paid Ms B a settlement amount, but she hasnt yet arranged for any work to 
be carried out. I acknowledge UKIs point that further damage may likely have been caused 
to the property while no repairs were carried out but Im not asking UKI to revise their 
schedule of works. Im saying its reasonable for them to use the schedule of works they 
have when they carried out their own calculation for a cash settlement, but the settlement 
should be recalculated using current market rates. I acknowledge UKIs concern about the 
rates being charged now, but UKI didnt act fairly when originally calculating the settlement.  
I acknowledge UKI say theyve paid provisional costs that Ms B might not have even 
incurred, yet theyre being asked to increase the settlement amount. UKI say the decision is 
unfair as Ms B might not even incur these fees and would financially benefit from the claim. 
UKI say it would be unfair to request they recalculate their schedule of repairs without any 
evidence of costs/estimates being presented by Ms B. I cant see our service has requested 
any evidence of repair quotes from Ms B, but I dont believe thats reasonable, or indeed 
necessary, in the circumstances of this case. I say this because, given that Ms B hasnt 
requested a cash settlement and her own preference was, and remains, for UKI to carry out 
repairs, Ms B should receive a settlement amount that reasonably covers the rates she will 
be quoted when arranging the repairs. 
I accept that I havent seen any repair quotes from Ms B, but Im satisfied any rates shes 
quoted will likely be higher than the supplier rates used by UKI. Im persuaded this is the 
case because I can see UKI did consider an industry benchmark quote when carrying out 
their tender process, and this provided a quote which was significantly higher than the 
supplier quote they used. So my decision remains that its fair and reasonable for UKI to use 
the scope they have, but it must be recalculated using market rates. I wish to reassure UKI 
my decision here hasnt been based on a presumption, but on evidence and applying a test 
which takes into account what I think is more likely than not.   
Alternative accommodation Ive carefully considered Ms Bs points about the AA, but Im not persuaded UKI have acted 
unreasonably here in not meeting the costs being claimed by Ms B. I accept Ms B has 
provided tenancy agreements, but as mentioned, I dont think its unfair for UKI to question 
why the tenancy agreements were provided so late in the claim. I also dont think theyve 
acted unfairly in declining this part of Ms Bs claim given theyve seen no evidence which 
shows rental costs have been paid. I acknowledge Ms Bs point about conversations shed 
had with UKI about her AA costs being met, but its clear UKI then had concerns about the 
information provided and the position changed when their claims validations team had 
concerns about whether there had been any financial loss. So, while Ive taken into account 
Ms Bs points, it doesnt change my decision that its not unreasonable for UKI to have paid 
£25,000 as a disturbance allowance and not meeting the costs being claimed by Ms B.  
 
I note Ms B explains there are ongoing court proceedings, and theres a claim for rent which 
forms part of those proceedings. In my provisional decision, Id explained my reasoning for 
not asking UKI to meet any AA costs was because Ms B hadnt provided any evidence that 
shed incurred rental costs. In this case, Ive decided the complaint based on the information 
Ive seen up to this point. Ms B hasnt provided any evidence of paying rent and I can see 
she accepts no rent has been paid. So, for the reasons Ive already set out, and based on 
the information Ive seen up to this point, I cant fairly ask UKI to meet the AA costs Ms B is 
claiming.   
Delays 
I acknowledge Ms Bs points about why she believes the £350 already paid and the £650 Im 
directing UKI to pay isnt reasonable. I understand Ms B is concerned about the rental 
income she says couldve been received. I do understand Ms Bs points about this, but Ive 
looked at the overall impact the initial four-month delay had on Ms B  and for the reasons 
already mentioned, I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ive also already 
explained why, based on the information Ive seen and taken into account at this point, I 
dont believe it would be fair to direct UKI to pay any lost rental income. 
In relation to the compensation of £650, Im looking at the delay from the point when UKI 
formally offer a cash settlement and then presenting Ms B with a full breakdown  which in 
this case is two years. Its clear an intention to cash settle was communicated and the 
information also shows those discussions between UKI and company S progressed to the 
point they actually started working on some calculations - but Ms B was never kept informed 
about this. Prior to company S starting their discussions with UKI around a cash settlement, I 
cant say UKI delayed in dealing with the cash settlement as they were considering 
reinstatement at this point. So, given the delay  and the impact of this on Ms B  I think 
£650 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I have taken into account Ms Bs point 
about Mr L carrying out the PAT testing himself. While this might not have led to the claim 
being held up, Im still satisfied £650 is fair here. 
Ms B says in communications around the time UKI and company S were considering a cash 
settlement, she wasnt ever informed this would likely materialise. I note Ms Bs comments 
about the meeting in March 2022 and what UKI explained the purpose of the meeting was  
and I dont doubt Ms Bs testimony that UKI didnt at this point explain the schedule would be 
used to help assess a cash settlement figure. I do accept Ms Bs point here, and this is 
addressed in the fact that Ive upheld this part of the complaint about the delay in presenting 
Ms B with a cash settlement. 
 
Ive carefully considered UKIs points about the delay part of the complaint. I acknowledge 
they say, in 2020 the schedule of repairs was still being disputed by Ms B following the joint 
site visit. UKI say they calculated a cash settlement figure but this was never presented to Ms B as she didnt agree to the repair schedule. And I acknowledge they point out they 
wouldnt have been treating Ms B fairly if they were to make a cash settlement offer and then 
payment knowing the schedule of repairs wasnt agreed. I can see theyve also pointed out 
Ms Bs delay in responding to their email. I have taken these points into account but, as 
already mentioned, UKI are the experts here and are expected to manage the claim fairly 
and promptly  and I dont believe theyve done that here. 
I accept the full repair schedule wasnt agreed at the point UKI and company S were still 
discussing the cash settlement, but its clear a cash settlement was calculated in December 
2020  and this was based on the results of a tender process  a process which took place 
over a year before. As Ive already mentioned, I acknowledge the notes show Ms B was 
challenging the third schedule of works around this time, but I dont think this shouldve 
prevented UKI from sharing their calculations with Ms B or even considering an interim 
payment while further discussions mightve taken place about the schedule of works. I cant 
see any substantive progress was made until a fourth schedule of works was completed in 
March 2022. I think its also important to add this was after Ms B complained in December 
2021. I do accept Ms B didnt respond to UKIs email in July 2020 within a reasonable 
period, but for the reasons Ive already explained in my provisional decision, I dont believe 
this shouldve prevented UKI from taking progressive steps.
Contents damage and storage    
I can see Ms B has made extensive representations in support of her view that UKI should 
pay for all contents damaged as a direct result of their delays in starting the drying out works 
and their delay in removing the contents. I wish to reassure Ms B Ive carefully considered 
her representations, but there isnt sufficient evidence here to demonstrate, on the balance 
of probabilities, UKIs delays caused the contents damage rather than the escape of water. 
Thats important here because, theres no dispute between the parties that Ms B didnt have 
contents insurance. So, for me to direct UKI to pay for any damage to contents, Id need to 
be satisfied that UKIs delays were the direct cause of the damage to the contents Ms B is 
claiming. In this case, and based on the information Ive seen, which takes into account the 
extent of the escape of water and the fact that water did fall on contents within the property, I 
cant be satisfied the contents damage was more likely than not down to UKIs delays and 
not the escape of water. 
I note UKI say they feel its unfair for them to have paid £23,107.50 in storage costs purely 
because Ms B failed to respond for a 17-month period, despite knowing the contents werent 
insured and had failed in her duty of care to take appropriate action. I do acknowledge UKIs 
concern here, but as mentioned above, I dont believe Ms Bs lack of response shouldve 
prevented UKI from taking progressive steps. 
I understand the storage costs are still being met by UKI  so once a settlement amount has 
been paid to Ms B, in line with the decision Ive made, I think its fair and reasonable for UKI 
to then work with Ms B and Mr L to arrange delivery of their contents.   
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that UKI havent offered Ms B and Mr L fair settlement terms. So, using 
the schedule of works they did to calculate the cash settlement, they should recalculate this 
using current market rates rather than their own supplier rates. 
If this new amount exceeds the amount originally used by UKI when calculating the cash 
settlement, then UKI should pay Ms B and Mr L the additional amount together with 8% 
simple interest per year on the additional amount, from the date they paid the cash 
settlement to Ms B to the date of settlement. UKI should provide Ms B and Mr L with a certificate showing any taxation deducted. Also, in addition to the £350 already paid by UKI, 
they should pay Ms B and Mr L an additional £650 to bring the total compensation paid for 
this complaint to £1,000.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. U K Insurance Limited must take the steps in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman