DRN-4463880
The complaint
G complains that Bank of Scotland delayed in opening a new bank account for it, which 
caused G various issues with making and receiving payments. G also complains that its 
trustees experienced distress and inconvenience because of Bank of Scotlands failings 
along the way.
G is represented by Mrs D.
What happened
On 12 August 2022, Mrs D went to her local Bank of Scotland branch to open an account for 
G. G had an existing account with a third-party bank but intended to close that account, so it 
was important for it to replace the account. G had also applied for a Council grant, so it 
needed an account to receive the grant monies once the application was approved.
Mrs D was told the quickest way to open an account was to apply online, and that the 
application would take up to six weeks. Mrs D started the application on the same day, but 
the account wasnt opened until 13 October 2022. Mrs D says she spent several hours 
chasing Bank of Scotland over 11 weeks, and that G had to take payments by cash and 
cheque while this was going on.
Mrs D also said that G almost missed out on the Council grant of £800 because it didnt have 
an account to pay into, and that this was only avoided as Gs former treasurer hadnt closed 
the previous account as had been intended. She said the situation caused her and her fellow 
trustees distress and inconvenience, and she wanted Bank of Scotland to pay G £200 to put 
things right.
Mrs D complained to Bank of Scotland, and Bank of Scotland issued its final response to Gs 
complaint on 24 October 2022. It upheld Gs complaint, apologised for not providing better 
service, and paid £65 in compensation. It also offered to reimburse any call costs and asked 
Mrs D to provide details of such costs.
But Bank of Scotland said it didnt think £200 was fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
It apologised for the long wait times Mrs D had experienced, and for sending emails in error 
that led to Mrs D calling Bank of Scotland when she didnt need to. But it clarified that six-
week timeframe for opening accounts started when Bank of Scotland received all the 
information it needed.
Mrs D remained unhappy, so she brought Gs complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked at the complaint but he didnt uphold it because he thought £65 was fair 
compensation. He noted the initial application had to be abandoned because of the nature of 
Gs constitution, and that Gs trading status and its trustees roles were then clarified on 31 
August 2022, the day after G had provided all necessary ID documents. He explained B has 
legal and regulatory obligations with which it has to comply at the account opening stage, 
and he found the account was opened just one day after the usual six-week timeframe.
Mrs D didnt agree, so she asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should say that Im aware Ive summarised the events of this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties, and that Ive done so using my own words. The reason for this is that 
Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here, which our rules allow me to do. 
This approach simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. And Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome in this case. So, if theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, and I must stress that Ive considered everything 
both Mrs D and Bank of Scotland have said, before reaching my decision. 
Im sorry to say that I dont have much to add, beyond what our investigator has already 
said. And I agree with his findings, for the reasons he has already set out. While the 
application was initially submitted on 12 August 2022, Bank of Scotland didnt receive all of 
the information it needed until 31 August 2022, so I accept the six-week period started from 
there. Which means six weeks expired on 12 October 2022, and I note the account opened 
the following day.
I can see Mrs D wasnt clear on the process and that Bank of Scotland didnt explain the full 
details behind the timescales when Mrs D asked. But Bank of Scotland has apologised for 
not providing better service and has paid compensation.
And while I agree it caused inconvenience to G during the application, for example by 
emailing Mrs D in error thus causing Mrs D to call Bank of Scotland, Im satisfied it has done 
enough to put matters right.
I understand G wanted to take payments during this time, but I note that G still had an active 
account elsewhere that it could have used. And because Ive found Bank of Scotland only 
caused a one-day delay, I cant hold it responsible for any issues caused by the account not 
being opened beyond the period of delay it was responsible for.
In terms of the compensation, I dont doubt this matter was stressful for Ms D and I 
recognise the trouble and upset it caused her personally. However, Bank of Scotlands 
customer is G, which is a separate entity to Mrs D, so I can only award compensation in 
respect of inconvenience G suffered, and not to recognise any distress Gs volunteers 
experienced. So, I hope its clear that Im not suggesting Mrs D didnt suffer distress, and 
that its simply the case that I cant make an award for that distress, because Mrs D is not 
the banks customer.
Ultimately, I agree Bank of Scotland made errors, in particular in its communications with 
Mrs D, but Im satisfied it has done enough to put things right for the errors I consider it 
made, by apologising and paying compensation. So, I wont ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman