DRN-2447910
The complaint
Mr C complains about the rate HSBC UK Bank Plc applied to an international money transfer 
he made to his UK account from an account he held overseas.
What happened
On 19 June 2020 Mr C made an online international money transfer from an account he held 
overseas to his HSBC account. The funds were received by HSBC on 23 June 2020. And Mr 
C was expecting HSBC to use an exchange rate of 8.23.
HSBC converted Mr Cs foreign currency into Sterling and credited his account the same day 
the funds were received. It used an exchange rate of 8.43. And this resulted in just under 
£37400 crediting Mr Cs account. But this was around £950 less than he was expecting.
Mr C wasnt happy about this. So, he contacted HSBC to raise concerns about the amount 
of money that had credited his account. But it didnt think it had done anything wrong 
because it had acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account in applying its 
own exchange rate to the transaction, which it refers to as the HSBC UK Exchange Rate.
Being dissatisfied with HSBCs response to his complaint, Mr C referred it to our service. He 
felt the amount HSBC had deducted from his transfer was excessive and didnt reflect the 
banks costs in processing his online payment. And he thought that, in deducting over £950 
from his payment, it had acted against the terms of his account. He said he had expected 
HSBC to deduct between £125 and £150 from his payment. So, to resolve his complaint, he 
wanted HSBC to refund around £825.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and empathised with him. But they didnt 
recommend upholding his complaint as they didnt think HSBC had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably or needed to do anything more. But Mr C disagreed and asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in applying the 
exchange rate it did. Ive carefully considered what HSBC and Mr C have said here. And I 
understand that Mr C is frustrated by the exchange rate applied by HSBC to his international 
transfer. But Im not persuaded to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
There isnt a single exchange rate for a currency that banks must track or replicate because 
each bank sets its own exchange rate, which is based on market conditions. So, exchange 
rates can differ from bank to bank. 
Here, HSBC applies its own exchange rate at the point that money is received. HSBC calls 
this the HSBC Exchange Rate, which is derived from the market rate with its own margin 
applied. This explains why, whilst its possible to see more favourable exchange rates 
elsewhere, HSBC will use its own rate.
The terms and conditions that apply to Mr Cs account clearly outline that any funds received 
in a foreign currency will be converted into Sterling first using the HSBC Exchange Rate at 
the time it receives the cash. 
The terms of the account persuade me that HSBC provides its customers with clear and 
unambiguous information that it will use its own exchange rate to convert foreign currency 
into Sterling. It follows that I think Mr C ought reasonably to have known this. And I think if he 
wasnt sure what this meant it would have been reasonable for him to contact HSBC to 
check before making his online transfer. 
HSBC received Mr Cs funds from the overseas bank on 23 June 2020. I can see it 
converted Mr Cs money the same day in line with its policy on processing international 
transfers. And I can also see it converted those funds to Sterling using the exchange rate 
that applied at the time the money was received. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im persuaded HSBC adhered to its procedure 
for processing international payments. Im also satisfied it acted in line with the terms of Mr 
Cs account in applying the exchange rate it did. So, I cant fairly find its done anything 
wrong.
Mr C has made the point about HSBCs deduction not being reflective of its costs. But, as a 
matter of law or regulation, no such requirement currently exists. The Consumer Rights Act 
2015, for example, excludes from the assessment of fairness the matter of whether the price 
of a service is appropriate for that service. And I can see our investigator has already 
explained theres no maximum charge.
I understand Mr Cs frustration that he feels hes lost out on a large amount of money as a 
result of the exchange rate HSBC used. But HSBCs exchange rates include a margin  as 
is common within the banking industry. I cant ask HSBC to disclose the margin it applies to 
exchange rate transactions as thats commercially sensitive information. This may, however, 
explain why the exchange rate HSBC applied was different to the one Mr C was expecting it 
to use.
I appreciate that Mr C feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything he has said. While I appreciate the reasons why he brought 
his complaint to our service Im satisfied that HSBC hasnt done anything wrong. It acted 
fairly and reasonably here. So, Im not going ask it to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman