DRN-2165767
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) declined his claim for storm 
damage to his outbuilding and hot tub.
What happened
Mr D had buildings and contents insurance with Fairmead. He said a storm damaged the 
roof of his summer house and his hot tub. Mr D raised a claim with Fairmead. While it 
agreed that storm conditions were present on the day, Fairmead declined the claim. It said 
that the damage was to a structure rather than a summer house and it wasnt of a 
satisfactory build quality. So, Fairmead said the structure wasnt covered under his policy 
because the poor build quality was the main cause of the damage. It also said the hot tub 
wasnt covered under the policy.
Mr D complained to Fairmead. He disputed its definition of his summer house as a structure. 
He also disputed its comments about the build quality and said the summer house was only 
three years old. And, because the fallen roof damaged the hot tub, he thought that should be 
covered under his policy.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2020 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Ds complaint. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
The damage Mr D claimed for is to a three-sided, mainly wooden, covered building with a 
fixed raised decking type floor. It has the appearance of a summer house without the doors 
opening out onto the decking. Part of the roof was blown away in the storm and pieces of the 
roof pierced his hot tub which was inside the building.
 
Firstly, Im going to refer to the outbuilding as a summer house. Its not clear why there has 
been any disagreement about what to call it, so Ive looked at whether the policy excludes 
this type of outbuilding. The policy states: 
Buildings Cover
Your home and your outbuildings are protected from many causes, including but not 
limited to:
Fire, smoke, subsidence, malicious damage, storm or flood, escape of water, theft and 
other causes.
And Ive seen that outbuildings are defined in the policy as:
Sheds, greenhouses, summer houses, other buildings (but not caravans, mobile homes or 
motor homes) which do not form part of the main building of the home and are used for 
domestic purposes.
Under the exclusions and limitations section, the policy states:
Storm or flood damage to fences, gates and hedges is not covered.
Mr D is claiming for an outbuilding. Outbuildings are covered under the policy for storm 
damage; the type of building Mr D has isnt specifically excluded, and it reasonably falls 
within the term other buildings. It doesnt appear to matter what the outbuilding is called, so 
I think its fair to call it a summer house.
In considering Fairmeads decision to decline this claim and whether that was fair, Ive 
thought about the following three things: 
Was there a storm?
Is the damage typical of that caused by a storm? 
Is it likely that the storm was the main cause of the damage?
There is no dispute that there was a storm. Wind speeds were far in excess of the minimum 
definition of a storm and it was a widely publicised, named hurricane. 
Mr D said the wind blew the roof of his summer house away and it pierced the hot tub 
underneath. I dont think theres any dispute that severe wind conditions such as those 
present on the day would cause that type of damage.
That leaves the final point, and the one which is disputed  was the storm the main cause of 
the damage.
Mr D said the summer house was custom built and three years old. Fairmead said that it 
didnt conform to the standards it would expect of off-the-shelf summer houses. Its expert 
report says that because the summer house didnt have doors, the three-sided building 
acted like a sail. This allowed the wind to enter and lift the roof off the building. The report 
goes on to say that roof fixings appear to be missing and the roof had been replaced since 
the original build, suggesting it hadnt been of a good enough quality. In conclusion, 
Fairmead said the build quality wasnt of a satisfactory standard and that was the main 
reason the wind blew the roof off the summer house.
Ive thought carefully about Fairmeads comments. While I can understand that the custom-
made summer house might not meet the standards it would normally expect to see for a 
manufactured summer house, the policy doesnt state the minimum specification or build 
standard for an outbuilding. The policy says the building should be of sound quality and in 
good repair, but it doesnt go on to explain what it means by that. 
Nor does it say that an outbuilding must have four sides. And, for the purpose of this claim, I 
find it difficult to see how the effect of the wind wouldve been any different for a three-sided 
summer house than a four-sided summer house with both doors open. There were hurricane 
winds of 75mph on the day of the damage, and I dont think its unreasonable to conclude 
that the storm was the main cause of part of the roof being blown away.
I dont agree that having the roof replaced suggests the summer house was below standard. 
Its possible the roof hadnt been a good enough standard before it was replaced. But the 
fact that the roof had been replaced suggests that it was more likely to be of an improved 
standard to the original roof. I dont think its fair to conclude anything more than that from 
the roof replacement.
For these very simple reasons, I dont think its fair to decline Mr Ds claim for the reason 
Fairmead gave. I think Fairmead should settle the claim in line with the remaining terms of 
the policy.
As Ive decided that Fairmead should settle the claim for the summer house, Ive looked at 
whether it should also consider the claim for the hot tub. I think it should.Mr Ds policy covers Contents in the open, defined as:
loss or damage to contents outside the home but within the boundaries of the land 
belonging to your home. 
And the policy specifically excludes storm damage:
Your insurer will not pay for:
Loss or damage caused by storm, flood or weight of snow;
So Ive thought about why the policy wouldnt cover storm damage to contents outside the 
home and I think its probably because the property would be exposed to damage by 
extreme weather. I accept that Mr Ds hot tub was exposed to weather because the summer 
house was open at one side. But the damage didnt happen because the hot tub was 
exposed  in fact it was damaged because it was inside the summer house. The storm lifted 
the roof and the falling roof pierced the hot tub. If it had been out in the open its entirely 
possible it wouldnt have been damaged. So, I think its fair to say the hot tub wasnt out in 
the open.
Mr Ds hot tub was in his summer house. While Fairmead disputed what it was called, Im 
not aware that it declined the claim for anything other than build quality. So that, to me, 
means its generally accepted that the summer house is an outbuilding. Contents in the open 
are defined as those outside the home. But the policy defines the home as: 
The private dwelling, garage and outbuildings at the address stated on your Schedule of 
Insurance. 
So I dont think I can decide that the summer house is covered as an outbuilding and then 
say the hot tub is in the open. Under the policy definition, the hot tub was in the home.
The terms of the policy say:
The contents are insured against loss or damage caused by:
4. Storm or flood.
So, following the logic above, the hot tub is in the summer house, which is defined as the 
home, and covered under the policy as contents in the home damaged by storm. I think 
Fairmead should reconsider the claim for the hot tub.
Overall, I think that Mr Ds summer house doesnt match the typical image of a summer 
house and, because of that, there has been some difficulty in determining the terms of the 
policy under which it should be considered. I think Fairmead has made fair comments about 
the summer house being an atypical structure, but I dont think it has demonstrated that the 
quality of the building before the storm was below a reasonable standard. Given the strength 
of the winds at the time, I dont think its unreasonable to accept that the summer house was 
of a satisfactory standard which simply couldnt withstand such force.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint, and I was minded to require Fairmead 
Insurance Limited to:
settle the buildings claim for damage caused to Mr Ds summer house, and 
reconsider the claim for the hot tub, in line with the terms of the contents policy, for 
storm damage. I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr D responded to say he had nothing further to add.
Fairmead responded to say it didnt agree with my provisional decision and it made two 
specific points:
the summerhouse wasnt of sound construction, and 
the hot tub was clearly intended to be in the open and, therefore, not covered by the 
policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
While I understand why Fairmead has challenged it, nothing it has said changes my opinion 
on this matter. Ill explain why.
Building
Fairmead said the summerhouse wouldnt have offered the same ongoing protection that a 
four-sided building wouldve done, so it didnt think it was fair to compare it to a building with 
the doors open. And its experts pointed out that wear and tear issues had been caused, in 
part, by the fact that one wall was missing, allowing wind and rain to consistently drive in. 
Fairmead also repeated its point that the roof had already been replaced in a short space of 
time, indicating that there was an inherent issue with the building construction.
I dont disagree with Fairmeads point that a four-sided building wouldve offered greater 
protection against the weather, or that a homeowner would likely close the doors if there was 
a storm. But the point here is that Fairmead doesnt define an outbuilding in the policy as a 
four-sided building. So I dont think its fair to rely on the fact that the summerhouse had 
three sides as a contributory reason to decline the claim.
The policy says the building must be of sound quality and in good repair. As I said before, 
Fairmead doesnt go on to define what it means by sound quality. Ive looked again at the 
experts report to see what it said about the build quality. The report states that a corrugated 
roof is commonly nailed to the roof support on each rise. The photos show four fixings but 
six rises. The report also states that the roof supports were made from wood of insufficient 
structural strength. Im not an expert in this area so Ive looked up the various terms used to 
try to simplify them here. In doing so, Ive seen differing views of the number of nails needed 
to hold a corrugated roof on to the roof supports and Mr Ds roof meets some expectations 
and fails others. 
Ive thought about Fairmeads belief that if the roof had already been replaced within three 
years of the summerhouse being built, then it must be of poor construction. I dont agree. 
The original roof may well have been of poor construction  I cant be certain - but I think its 
unlikely Mr D wouldve gone to the trouble of replacing it with something less robust. 
Arguably, this does meet the policy requirement to keep the building in good repair. So I 
dont think its fair to draw any conclusions from the fact that Mr D replaced the roof.
But its not my role to decide whether the summerhouse was of sound quality or had the 
correct number of fixings. I must decide whether Fairmead has sufficiently demonstrated that 
the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage and, in doing so, whether it declined the claim fairly. It may be the case that the summerhouse isnt constructed to the highest 
standard, but I havent seen anything which defines what the standard should be. I think its 
fair to expect the summerhouse to be able to withstand most types of weather, but I wouldnt 
necessarily expect it to be of a similar build quality to a house. 
So, with that in mind, Ive thought again about whether its likely that the storm was the main 
cause of the damage. My opinion hasnt changed on this. Thats because the photos show 
that much of the roof was still attached and the rest of the summerhouse was intact. If the 
build quality was insufficient, Id have expected to see more damage overall as a result of 
hurricane force wind conditions. Im satisfied that the storm was the main cause of the 
damage.
Hot tub
Fairmead felt it was fair to say Mr Ds intention was to have the hot tub semi-exposed, which 
is why it was installed in a three-sided building. Its point being that the hot tub was exposed 
on one side and always susceptible to the elements. Again, I dont disagree and, looking at 
the terms of the policy, I think its fair to conclude that cover isnt available if the weather 
causes direct damage to contents in the open. 
But, having decided that the summerhouse was an outbuilding, and the outbuilding housed 
the hot tub, logic dictates that the hot tub wasnt in the open. I agree it was semi-exposed, 
and therefore susceptible to the elements. But it was the falling roof which damaged the hot 
tub so being semi-exposed to the weather is irrelevant here. 
In summary, while I understand why Fairmead has challenged my provisional decision, the 
fact remains that the policy doesnt define outbuildings or sound quality in a way which 
clearly demonstrates that Mr Ds claim falls under the exclusions. For that reason, I havent 
changed my opinion on this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ds 
complaint.
Fairmead Insurance Limited must:
settle the buildings claim for storm damage caused to Mr Ds summer house, and 
reconsider the claim for the hot tub, in line with the terms of the contents policy, for 
storm damage to contents within the home. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman