DRN-3588779
The complaint
Mr L complains about The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) for applying a different rate to his 
repayment plan than what he understood. He wants Co-op to refund the additional interest 
he thinks he has paid, and his payment plan to be removed. 
What happened
Mr L held a Co-op credit card for some time. 
He missed payments on occasions, including in 2017 and 2018, and frequently repaid only 
his minimum payment. 
In late 2020, Co-op carried out a review of his account and considered that he was in 
persistent debt. This was because, over the previous 18 months, he had paid more in 
charges and fees than from his capital balance. 
Co-op wrote to Mr L, requesting he get in touch. 
In early 2021, Mr L spoke with an agent from Co-op. They discussed whether he could 
increase his payments to clear the balance within a reasonable period. Mr L explained he 
was limited in what he could pay off, and Co-op agreed to reduce his rate of interest to 
8.52% if Mr L maintained a monthly plan of £80 per month. 
Mr L has subsequently made his repayments, and his balance has steadily decreased. Mr L 
was concerned that his card had been suspended, and his statements showed a rate of 
8.9% instead of the 8.52% he had understood. 
He complained to Co-op. He felt that he had been pressured into the agreement and was 
upset that the rate was different. Co-op considered his complaint and did not agree that the 
higher rate was being charged. 
Mr L remained upset so contacted us. 
Our investigator has looked into this matter. They did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. This was 
because the rate being charged on Mr Ls statements (up until April 2022) was the 8.52% 
rate that had been agreed. 
Mr L did not accept the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the available statements and agree with my colleague that Co-op has been 
applying the monthly rate in line with the 8.52% agreed for a period of 48 months. The higher 
rate which is detailed on statements is an annual rate and is not the rate applied monthly.
I appreciate that the way this has been displayed has been confusing, but I am satisfied that 
Co-op has given a reasonable explanation and has applied the correct rate to the plan. 
During the course of this complaint it was identified that Co-op mistakenly changed the rate 
in April 2022, and it reverted to a higher rate. I understand that Co-op has now rectified this 
and reinstated the 8.52% rate for the remainder of the plan, but if Mr L has any concerns 
with this he would need to raise these with the business and allow an opportunity for the 
business to respond.
I understand that Mr L feels aggrieved that he was invited to begin a repayment plan, and he 
feels that this has impacted him because he cannot use his suspended card and his credit 
limit is being reduced as his balance reduces. I also understand that Mr L feels that his credit 
rating has been affected by the plan. My colleague explained why we could not look again at 
these issues, as they had already been brought to our service and considered. I agree with 
my colleagues comments in respect of those issues we cannot consider. 
I understand that Mr L remains unhappy and thinks more should have been done to help 
him. For the reasons set out above, and explained by my colleague, I do not think that Co-op 
has done anything substantially wrong, but I remind Mr L that if his circumstances change, or 
if he is no longer able to meet the plan, then he should speak to Co-op and explain any 
financial difficulties.
As a result of the above, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint and do not ask The Co-operative 
Bank Plc to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint and do not ask The Co-
operative Bank Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman