DRN-2431749
The complaint
Mr A and Miss T complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly increased the 
premium on their home insurance.
Both Mr A and Miss T are named policyholders on their Admiral policy, so any claim or 
complaint is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information 
about the complaint has been provided by Mr A, Ill refer mainly to Mr A from here on.
What happened
Mr A and Miss T had home contents and motor insurance policies with Admiral. In March 
2018, Mr A contacted Admiral to check he had the right cover and that certain home 
improvement features were covered by his home insurance. This included  among other 
things  stud walls, doors, and door frames. Admiral told Mr A that these features were 
covered by his contents insurance.
Mr A renewed his policy in August 2018 and August 2019. In August 2020, Admiral sent Mr 
A the renewal quote for 2020/21. Mr A contacted Admiral because he felt the interest he was 
being charged for paying monthly was too high.
During one of these calls, Admiral discovered it had made a mistake in 2018. The stud walls, 
doors, and door frames werent covered by Mr As contents policy. These could only be 
covered by its buildings insurance. Admiral said Mr A needed a combined buildings and 
contents policy and revised its 2020/21 renewal quote to reflect the new combined cover. 
The result was that Mr As new quote was approximately £100 higher.
Mr A was unhappy with this. He said he wasnt changing the cover hed had for the previous 
two years. He also said it was unreasonable for Admiral to increase his premium after hed 
accepted the renewal quote. He asked Admiral to honour its initial quote.
Admiral acknowledged that it made an error in 2018 when it told Mr A his home improvement 
features were covered under his contents insurance. It also apologised for delays 
investigating his complaint and offered him £75 to apologise for these failings. However, it 
said it didnt have to offer the incorrect cover indefinitely and could correct its 2018 mistake. 
Mr A didnt accept this, so he came to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint should be upheld. He found that 
Admiral had acknowledged it made a mistake in 2018. However, he didnt think Admiral had 
done anything wrong by amending Mr As policy and increasing the premium once it 
discovered its error. He thought Admirals offer of £75 compensation for this and for delays 
investigating his complaint was fair.
Mr A disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Admiral made an error in March 2018. Its advisor didnt pass on key 
information to its underwriter about the precise cover Mr A needed. This meant the advisor 
told Mr A that stud walls, doors, and door frames were covered by his contents insurance. 
In fact, they werent. Mr As home insurance policy defines buildings as Your home and its 
permanent fixtures and fittings. So Mr A needed buildings insurance as well as his existing 
contents insurance. The error only came to light when Mr A called Admiral in August 2020 to 
discuss his renewal quote. 
The key question for me is what Admiral should have done once it discovered the mistake. 
Between 17 August and 14 September 2020, it:
explained the mistake to Mr A.
revised its quote for Mr As home insurance so this became a combined buildings 
and contents policy where previously it had been contents only.
agreed to match any cheaper quote Mr A could find for the same cover.
agreed to waive its cancellation fee if Mr A wanted to switch his home insurance 
elsewhere.
discounted Mr As new home insurance premium by £65.
apologised to Mr A and offered him £75 compensation for its failings.I think Admiral was right to correct its mistake when it realised that Mr A hadnt been properly 
insured, and I think its offer to price match or waive its cancellation fee was fair. In the 
circumstances, I think this was a reasonable response.
Im also satisfied that Admirals 2018 error caused Mr A no financial loss. Admiral has 
provided evidence to us that Mr As home insurance premium for 2018/19 would have been 
approximately £100 higher if it had correctly priced the risk. Its reasonable to assume his 
2019/20 premium was also lower that it should otherwise have been. So Mr A paid a lower 
premium than he should have done for almost two and a half years.
Mr A says Admiral was quoting for the exact same cover that it first agreed in 2018. I dont 
think thats correct. As Admirals advisor told Mr A during the phone call on 17 August 2020, 
its contents policy doesnt cover stud walls, doors, and door frames. In other words, these 
features hadnt ever been insured. So Admiral wasnt offering the same cover. 
Similarly, Admirals statement that it would have honoured any claim doesnt mean Mr As 
policy covered those features. Instead, its saying it would have honoured such a claim to 
make up for its error. I dont think its fair or reasonable to expect Admiral to do this once 
both parties were aware of the error.
Mr A also says Admiral was contractually bound by the quote once hed accepted it. He 
says: The automatic renewal authority granted by me should be construed as acceptance of 
the offer and therefore, under contract law, the insurer has no right to later amend their offer 
unless material change has been considered.
I disagree with him. The original quote was for a different policy  contents only rather than 
combined buildings and contents. I think this was, in Mr As words, a material change. So I 
dont think Admiral should be bound by the first quote. I think its also worth noting that 
Admiral sent Mr A the revised quote on 20 August, five days before his existing policy 
expired and twelve days before his first payment under the new policy. So Admiral had 
corrected its error before the new policy was in force. If Mr A wants to argue points of 
contract law further, he remains free to do so in court.
Finally, Mr A referred to a case study published by this service that he believes strongly 
relates to his own complaint. As our investigator explained, we look at every case on its own 
merits. And, in my opinion, the circumstances of Mr As complaint are quite different to the 
case study. For example, the customer in that case study incurred a significant 
consequential loss as a direct result of the insurers error. As I said above, Mr A incurred no 
such loss and actually benefitted from Admirals error.
For the reasons above, Im satisfied that Admiral acted fairly when it discovered that Mr A 
wasnt fully covered for what he needed. While I understand that Mr As unhappy his 
premium has increased, Im satisfied that his new home insurance policy more accurately 
reflects the insurance risk. 
Admirals letter to Mr A on 22 September 2020 explained that its £75 compensation offer 
was partly for the misinformation given to him in 2018 and partly for the delay replying to 
his complaint. I think this offer was fair and in line with what Id award for the inconvenience 
caused to Mr A.
Overall, I think Admirals actions in this case were reasonable. It follows that I dont uphold 
the complaint.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman