DRN-3790545
The complaint
Ms G, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans.
What happened
Ms G was advanced two home collected loans between August 2021 and January 2022. Ive
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £250.00 27/08/2021 03/02/2022 35 £12.50
2 £300.00 19/01/2022 outstanding 35 £15.00
An outstanding balance remains due for loan 2 of £485 as of April 2022.
The weekly repayment column in the table above is the cost per week per loan. Where
loans overlapped the cost per week was increased, for example when loans 1 and 2 were
running at the same time Ms Gs weekly commitment to Morses was £27.50.
Following Ms Gs complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt going
to uphold the complaint. Ms Gs representative then referred the complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and he thought it should be fully upheld. He explained
before the first loan was approved a credit, check was carried out and the results of the
check showed Morses there was a recently applied default. Which was enough to have 
made Morses realise Ms G was likely having financial difficulties and so shouldnt have been 
provided with either loan.
Morses didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In summary it explained that
proportionate affordability checks were carried out before each loan was approved. Morses
also didnt agree the credit file, alone was enough to uphold the complaint given what else it
was aware of.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was assed to an ombudsman to decide about
the complaint.
I then issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not 
uphold Ms Gs complaint. A copy of the provisional findings follows this in italics and smaller 
font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms G could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and
Ms Gs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms G. These factors include:
Ms G having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms G having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms G coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms G. 
Morses was required to establish whether Ms G could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms G was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Gs complaint.
For these loans, Morses has shown that it asked Ms G for details of her income and
expenditure. Her declared weekly income for loan one has been noted as £345.91 and for
loan two £415.70. Morses says that these income amounts were checked with a credit
reference agency for accuracy, but a result of that check hasnt been provided.
In terms of expenditure, for loan one, Ms G declared these came to £179 per week and for
loan two £284.50. Which left a minimum amount of disposable income of around £131 per
week.
Based solely on her income and expenditure information Morses couldve been confident 
Ms G would be able to comfortably afford the repayments she was committed to making of no
more than £27.50 per week.
Morses also carried out a credit check when loan one was approved, and a copy of those
results have been supplied to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Having reviewed the
results, there is some adverse information Morse needed to take into account. A summary of
what Ive seen can be found below.£1,039 of existing debt spread across 10 active credit accounts.
A total of three defaults with the most recent one being reported around three months before 
loan one was approved. With a defaulted balance of around £621.
The results are concerning because it shows to me a picture of someone who may have
been having current repayment problems with other credit given how recently the last credit
account had been marked as being in default.
However, in saying the above, there are some other indications within the credit report which
suggested that Ms W wasnt showing signs that she was using credit in an unsustainable
way. For example, shed only opened two new credit accounts within the last six months 
this isnt a particular high number and doesnt suggest she was reliant on high cost loans.
Indeed, the credit checks showed Morses she hadnt had a payday loan and had only taken
one other home credit loan within the last six months. But, the proximity of the default does
raise questions about Ms Gs most recent payment history.
Therefore, given what the credit results show, Im intending to conclude that the checks
Morses carried out before these loans were approved wasnt sufficient. Instead, I think it
needed to gain a full understanding of Ms Gs actual financial position to ensure these loans
were affordable and sustainable for Ms G. This couldve been done in several ways, such as
asking for evidence of her outgoings or looking at her bank statements.
The further checks mightve helped verify what Ms G had declared and provided and
revealed whether there was any other information that Morses mightve needed to consider
about Ms Gs general financial position given the results of the credit check.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have to
be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered
that Ms G couldnt afford them.
However, neither Ms G nor her representative has provided any details of her actual living
costs at the time such as providing copy bank statements. I therefore, cant fairly conclude
what further checks may have shown Morses about Ms Gs finances. As this is the case, I
cant uphold Ms Gs complaint about these loans.
Therefore, based on the information that I currently have to hand, Im intending to conclude
that while proportionate checks may not have been carried out, the evidence suggests that
Morses made a reasonable decision to lend. I therefore am intending to not uphold Ms Gs
complaint.
Response to the provisional decision 
Both Ms G and Morses were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as 
possible but in any event no later than 4 November 2022. 
Ms Gs representative acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision and explained 
should Ms G have any further comments these will be provided. To date, nothing further has 
been provided to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Morses emailed to confirm it accepted the outcome as outlined in the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has provided anything new for consideration, I see no reason to depart from 
the findings that I made in the provisional decision. 
I still think, given the results of the credit check Morses carried out, it ought to have 
prompted it to make further enquiries into Ms Gs finances. However, as Ive not received 
anything new from Ms G about her finances at the time. Ive had to conclude Morses made a 
reasonable decision to provide these loans. 
Therefore, Im not upholding Ms Gs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman