DRN-2636583
The complaint
Ms B complains about the actions of Intrum UK Limited (Intrum) regarding a debt it says she 
owes.
What happened
The debt Ms B complains about originated from a current account overdraft facility provided 
to her by a bank. The original account was closed in September 2012  and the debt was 
then sold to Intrum in 2014, who are now the legal owners of this debt.
Ms B says that she thought the overdraft facility was £600, and so she doesnt think it is fair 
that when Intrum took ownership of the debt it asked her to repay £1,806.78.
Ms B says that she hasnt received any communication from Intrum about the debt despite 
Intrum saying it had sent many letters. Ms B says she only found out about the debt when 
she checked her credit report  although she was aware of the original debt with the bank. 
When Intrum couldnt get in touch with Ms B, and hadnt received any repayments towards 
the amount outstanding, it applied to the courts, where a County Court Judgement (CCJ) 
was granted. 
Intrum responded to Ms Bs complaint and said that the charges it had added to the balance 
she owed were in relation to the costs for the CCJ and its enforcement. It said it was entitled 
to charges these fees and that it was entitled to apply for a CCJ in order to recover the 
amount owed. It says it charged her a total of £743.63 that related to costs involved in 
obtaining the CCJ and subsequent enforcement action.
Our investigator looked into things for Ms B. He let her know that this service wouldnt look 
into the decision made by the court when it issued the CCJ. And that this service wouldnt 
consider any of the things the court had done - so the amount the judgement states was 
owed and the liability of the debt. Our investigator directed Ms B back to the courts if she 
was unhappy with its decision. 
Our investigator also said this service couldnt look at how Intrum had gone about collecting 
the debt after the CCJ had been granted  because seeking to enforce a judgement debt 
isnt a regulated activity.  However, he said he could look into the actions of Intrum leading 
up to the CCJ.
Our investigators view was that Intrum hadnt done anything wrong. He was satisfied that 
Intrum were the legal owners of the debt and that the original lending was in Ms Bs name. 
He confirmed the balance of the account when Intrum purchased the debt was £1,806.78. 
And he thought it was fair of Intrum to take reasonable steps to recover the debt. He didnt 
agree with Ms Bs comments that Intrum hadnt tried to contact her about the debt and 
referred to a number of letters that it had sent her since 2014.
Ms B didnt agree with our investigator. She still thought that Intrum could and should have 
done more. Because Ms B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint and Ill explain my reasoning for doing 
so in more detail below.
There are parts of this complaint this service wont be considering, our investigator has 
already explained this to Ms B and she has accepted this. So, its now left for me to decide 
on the complaint this service can look into. I have broken Ms Bs complaint points down and 
responded to them separately below.
balance owed when Intrum purchased the debt
Ive looked at the notice of assignment letter that was sent to Ms B by the original lender. 
This confirms that Intrum are now the legal owners of the debt, and that the amount owing at 
that time was £1,806.78. I have also seen statements from the original lender which shows 
that this was the closing balance on the original overdraft account. At this stage, Intrum 
hadnt added any additional fees or charges to the balance and so the total amount 
outstanding when Intrum first purchased the debt all related to the original overdraft account. 
So, any complaint Ms B wants to make about this balance will need to be directed to the 
original lender. And it follows that I dont think Intrum has made a mistake when it initially 
took over the debt and told her the balance owed was £1,806.78.
actions taken by Intrum to recover the debt
Ms B says she didnt receive any correspondence from Intrum about the debt. And she had 
no idea that a CCJ had been granted against her until she checked her credit report. Ive 
looked at what Intrum did, if anything, to contact Ms B about the debt.
Looking at everything we have on file, I cant agree that Intrum didnt do enough to contact 
Ms B. Intrum became legal owners of the debt in 2014 and I can see both Intrum and the 
original lender wrote to Ms B to let her know this. From then on, and until the CCJ was 
granted on 7 February 2018, I can see that Intrum sent at least 32 letters to Ms B about the 
debt. 
Ms B has confirmed that for the most part, she resided at the address Intrum sent these 
letters to, so it seems unusual that she didnt receive any of these.
While I dont have evidence from Intrum to show the letters were sent, I think its likely Intrum 
sent them. I say this because it was in its interest to recover the money owed, and it wouldnt 
have had a good chance of being able to do this if it didnt contact her. Ive also seen copies 
of the letters, so again this leads me to think it more likely than not that they were in fact 
sent.
I dont think it likely that all 32 letters would have gone missing in the post or werent sent as 
a result of a system error. So on the balance of probabilities, I think its likely the letters were 
sent and received at the address Ms B says she mostly resided at. While I appreciate, she 
may not have remembered receiving them, or perhaps didnt open them - I cant fairly say 
that Intrum didnt do enough to try and contact her.Intrum also said it made around 56 attempts to call Ms B. Its said some of the attempts to 
contact her may have been to an old number  Ms B has confirmed she did change her 
number at one point. It doesnt appear that Ms B updated Intrum with her new number, and 
so I dont think I can say it has done anything wrong by not being able to contact her on her 
normal number.
But given what Ive already said about the number of letters Intrum have sent to Ms B, I think 
Intrum has done enough to contact Ms B in recovering this debt, prior to it taking court 
action. 
Intrum should have done more to help Ms B repay the debt
As Ive said, Intrum tried to contact Ms B a number of times about the debt. Most of the 
letters I have seen sign post Ms B to charities who might be able to help her if she was in 
financial difficulties. Intrum has also asked for Ms B to complete a form so she could make 
an offer of repayment at an amount that would be affordable to her. Ms B didnt engage with 
Intrum for a number of years, despite its attempts, so it would have been difficult for Intrum 
to do much more to help Ms B if it wasnt able to discuss the situation with her. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman