DRN-3673102
The complaint
Mr W complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out checks before it granted a 
number of loans which he couldnt afford to repay. Had it done so, it wouldve discovered he 
was in a difficult situation and was in arrears.
  
What happened
Mr W took at least 10 loans from Company A. Company As open loan book was purchased 
by Morses in March 2014  at which point Morses became responsible for dealing with any 
unaffordable lending complaints about open loans. 
Based on the information Mr W has provided some of these loans were approved in 2009 
and possibly before and after this year as well, but it isnt clear from the information 
provided. 
It also isnt clear from the information provided, that I have all of the following information 
about each loan; the start date, repayment dates or the amount of capital borrowed. Mr W 
has been able to supply some information that suggests for example by November 2009 he 
was in arrears by around £70 on at least one account. 
So, having tried, it hasnt been possible to put together an accurate loan table which reflects 
Mr Ws borrowing history  due to incomplete information. 
Mr W has provided some photos of his paying in books which shows a number of loans 
being granted by Company A. He has also, provided a letter from Company A that shows the 
balances of three outstanding accounts as of October 2009.
 
Morses, says it hasnt been able to locate any records of loans issued to Mr W. This could 
be due to one of two factors. Firstly, the loans approved which Morses became responsible 
for were so long ago that the information about them is no longer available. This isnt 
unreasonable or suspicious given some of the loans were taken out up to 13 years ago.  
Secondly, as Ive said above, we know from the documents Mr W has provided that these 
loans were provided by Company A and as Ive said above Morses only took responsibility 
for dealing with complaints about unaffordable lending for loans that were outstanding and 
acquired by Morses in March 2014. 
This means any loans provided by Company A which were successfully repaid (I cant be 
sure which of the loans, if any have been repaid) became the responsibility of a different 
entity - Company B. However, Company B is no longer trading and therefore a complaint 
about these repaid loans cant be taken further. 
Following a complaint to Morses, it issued a final response letter which outlined that it 
couldnt find any loans for Mr W and he had complained too late. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr W referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator initially looked at the complaint and decided this complaint wasnt one that 
could be taken further because there was nothing to suggest that Mr W took loans after the 
point at which Morses became responsible for them  March 2014.
 
Mr W didnt agree with the adjudicators view and explained that he is currently making 
repayments to Morses for an outstanding balance through a debt management plan (DMP). 
Later on, Mr W provided a copy of his DMP statement which showed he was paying Morses 
£4.05 (possibly per month) with reference number 2569. 
The adjudicator then explained that it was likely, we could take the case forward as Mr W 
was paying Morses for an outstanding loan. The case was then passed to a different 
adjudicator to consider what had happened. 
Further enquires where made with Morses about Mr Ws DMP payments. Morses told us the 
following (verbatim):
We can confirm that the account was an old [Company A] one which transferred over 
from our old system to our current system with a £0 balance as the previous system 
used to write off balances at >18 weeks.
Our banking team have confirmed payments were being received for some time as 
recent as 18 March 2022, which are kept on an internal spreadsheet as they couldnt 
be applied to a NIL balance and the account has now been removed from our 
systems. This is the reason we have been unable to locate the account.
The spreadsheet only holds details of the payments received; therefore, we dont 
hold any other details for the customer or loans they may have held so we cannot 
provide any further information or consent to any loans being reviewed.
The adjudicator then reviewed the complaint and explained to Mr W why she couldnt uphold 
it. 
Mr W disagreed saying he had several loans running at the same time with Company A and 
loans were issued while he was in arrears. Mr W is also concerned about the actions of 
Morses pushing him into debt given that it is now claiming through a DMP payments for a 
balance. 
Morses didnt respond to the assessment.
 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
The adjudicator went back to Morses, to see whether it had any further information about the 
payments Mr W was making to it  in response it said;
The most recent payment we have a record of receiving was 18 March 2022 which is 
kept on an internal spreadsheet as there is no account for this to be applied to, as 
explained in our previous email. The spreadsheet only holds details of the payments 
received; therefore, we dont hold any other details for the customer or loans they 
may have held so we cannot provide any further information. As we know the loan(s) 
transferred from [Company A], it would be at least 8 years old and therefore out of 
data retention.
Before the case was passed for a final decision, the adjudicator checked with Morses 
whether it would give consent for the Financial Ombudsman to consider the complaint, this 
was potentially needed, given in the above email it mentions not providing consent. 
Morses responded with the following:We understand that the case can be investigated and we do not object, its just that 
we do not hold any loan information about any account(s) we acquired from 
[Company A].
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr W could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Morsess checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ws income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr W. These factors include:
Mr W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr W.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr W was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ws complaint. 
Morses has provided consent to the Financial Ombudsman Service I need not say any more 
about it. But that doesnt mean I am in a position to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ive explained 
the reasons why, below I am not able to do so. I want to be clear that I cant consider any loans taken out and repaid before March 2014, 
this is because Morses isnt the company responsible for dealing with any issues about 
unaffordable lending complaints. 
However, this has proved complicated in this case, because based on the information 
provided by Mr W it isnt clear  which if any of the loans he has provided evidence for where 
(or werent repaid) before March 2014. And I already know Morses doesnt have any 
information about the loans he was granted by Company A. 
All I can say, is that Mr W must have had some difficulties repaying loans(s) because he has 
provided evidence that he is repaying Morses through a DMP. It therefore seems likely that 
there was at least one loan (they may have been more) outstanding in 
March 2014  which was when Morses took over the responsibility for the outstanding loans. 
And in the most recent email, Morses seems to accept that it took over some loans(s) in 
March 2014 but cant say which loans or what the balance is. 
This means, Morses cant tell the Financial Ombudsman Service, which loans if any it took 
over or what the balance was at the time as it explained the balance is showing as nil. So, 
this doesnt really help establish which of the loans Mr W has been able to provide evidence 
for relate to the balance or whether the outstanding balance is made up other loans taken 
out which I have no information about. 
Ive also cross referenced the number that Mr W provided as part of the DMP  this appear 
to be number used by the DMP when making the payment to Morses. However, I cant find 
this number anywhere in the information Mr W has been able to provide. So, its possible, 
that the balance that Mr W is repaying relates to a loan that neither party has been able to 
provide any information for or that reference number relates to something else entirely.  
Therefore, without any evidence or when all the loans were repaid I cant fairly say which 
loans Morses are responsible for. Without knowing this, it is not possible to make a finding 
that Morses ought to not have provided the loan(s). This also means, I cant establish what 
information may have been gathered at the time the loans were approved and whether a 
proportionate check was or wasnt carried out. 
In this case, unfortunately, due to the time that has passed I cant fairly make a finding that 
Morses made an error when I cant even be sure which of the loans it is responsible for. Let 
alone, how much compensation may have needed to have been paid even if I was able to 
establish which loans Morses was responsible for. 
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my decision because he clearly feels strongly 
about this. But I hope he understands why Ive come to the decision that I have.  
Given, the information provided by Morses about the payments and balance of the account 
Mr W may wish to speak to the company managing his DMP to discuss a way forward. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman