DRN-2531172
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank of Scotland plc wouldnt offer them a new interest rate 
product on their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have a mortgage with Bank of Scotland which they say was originally taken on 
a lifetime tracker rate of 1% above the Bank of England base rate. In 2007 they took some 
additional borrowing, and a fixed interest rate product was taken out on both the main 
mortgage account and the additional borrowing. Once the fixed rates expired the mortgage 
moved onto Bank of Scotlands standard variable rate (SVR). Mr and Mrs H werent always 
able to make the full monthly payments on the mortgage, so arrears built up on the account.
In 2017 Mr and Mrs H complained about the interest rate they were paying on the mortgage 
and were able to secure a new fixed rate product. Bank of Scotland said they offered this as 
an exception despite the arrears on the account. Mr and Mrs H took out a fixed rate of 2.34% 
which ended on 31 July 2019. When this interest rate product ended, Mr and Mrs H asked 
Bank of Scotland if they could take out a new interest rate product, but Bank of Scotland 
wouldnt agree to offer a new rate. The bank referred to their policy which states that they 
wont consider an application for an interest rate product if the mortgage is more than one 
month in arrears.
Mr and Mrs H contacted our service and asked us to look into things. They were unhappy 
that the bank had removed their lifetime tracker rate without their consent, and that the bank 
wouldnt offer them a new interest rate. The bank explained that they thought this complaint 
had been raised out of time under the time limits. They didnt give our service consent to 
consider the complaint. I issued a decision which said our service could only consider Mr 
and Mrs Hs complaint about the most recent application to switch interest rate product, as 
their other complaint points had been made out of time.
Our investigator looked into the merits of the complaint about the product switch and 
explained that he thought Bank of Scotland had acted fairly. Whilst he empathised with Mr 
and Mrs Hs situation, he wasnt persuaded that taking out a new interest rate product would 
put the mortgage back on track due to the level of arrears.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed so the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage has been in arrears for quite some time. Most of the mortgage 
balance is on interest only, the term of which is due to end in around five years. I appreciate 
Mr and Mrs H feel that the bank are responsible for the arrears, due to the interest rate their 
mortgage has been on over the years. But Ive explained we cant consider that aspect of 
their complaint. So Ill be considering how Bank of Scotland treated Mr and Mrs H in 2019 
when they declined to offer a new interest rate, on the facts as they were at the time.
When Bank of Scotland offered Mr and Mrs H a new interest rate in 2017, they did so as an 
exception in order to try and help Mr and Mrs H clear the arrears and get the mortgage back 
on track. However, unfortunately even at the lower interest rate Mr and Mrs H still couldnt 
always meet the contractual monthly payment (CMP), and the arrears continued to grow.
The bank have explained they have a policy which says if the mortgage account is more 
than one month in arrears, they wont consider an application for a product transfer. Whilst 
the bank is entitled to have its own policies in place, Id expect them to think about whether it 
is fair to apply that policy when taking into account the individual circumstances of the 
borrower. For example, they made an exception in 2017, so Ive thought carefully about 
whether they should also have considered doing the same in 2019.
When Mr H asked about a new interest rate in 2019, the mortgage arrears balance was 
around £22,000. When the bank refused to give him a new rate he stopped making 
payments to the account, so these arrears have grown significantly since then. I appreciate 
why Mr and Mrs H feel that a lower interest rate would help make the mortgage payments 
more affordable for them, but its important to consider whether its in their best interests to 
keep them tied into a mortgage that they cannot afford.
Mr H has explained that the nature of his employment means he gets paid commission at 
different times, which affects when hes able to make his mortgage payments. But even on 
the lower interest rate he and Mrs H werent able to pay the equivalent of the full monthly 
payments every month, even if they were paid late.
 
I appreciate Mr H had some health issues around that time. But I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Bank of Scotland to want to have seen a number of consistent payments 
being met before they agreed to tie Mr and Mrs H into a new interest rate product.
Even if the bank did agree to a product switch, this wouldnt necessarily have solved the 
issue of the arrears that would still need to be cleared before the end of the mortgage term. 
Bank of Scotland considered whether there were other options available to help Mr and Mrs 
H - such as adding the arrears balance to the mortgage (capitalisation), or extending the 
term. But as Mr and Mrs H were unable to meet the lower CMP alone, and capitalisation 
would have increased this amount, even over a longer period, I agree its unlikely this would 
have put Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage into an affordable and sustainable position.
  
The bank took details of Mr and Mrs Hs income and expenditure, and this showed that the 
mortgage payments would not have been affordable for Mr and Mrs H, even on a lower 
interest rate. I dont think it was unreasonable for the bank to take into account what Mr and 
Mrs H had been paying, as well as the income and expenditure information when making 
their decision. If Mr and Mrs H couldnt afford the payments that would have resulted from 
the proposed forbearance options, I dont think the bank were unfair to turn down Mr Hs 
request.
Overall, whilst I appreciate things have been difficult for Mr and Mrs H, I dont think it would 
have been in their best interests to tie them into an arrangement that they couldnt afford. I 
would encourage Mr and Mrs H to seek independent advice about their situation, if they 
havent already. 
I understand Bank of Scotland agreed to place recovery action on hold whilst our service 
considered this complaint. I also note that some time has passed since Bank of Scotland 
assessed Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances, and its possible these may have changed. So before taking any further steps, I think Mr and Mrs H should have a discussion with the bank 
about their current circumstances, to see if theres anything more they can do. 
I would like to take this opportunity to remind Bank of Scotland of the need to consider the 
specific challenges Mr and Mrs H will be facing due to the current environment, and to 
ensure theyre treated fairly in line with the regulators evolving guidance for those affected 
by the pandemic.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H and Mr H and 
Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman