DRN-2911184
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt do more to prevent 
her making payments to a scammer.
What happened
In late 2019 Mrs C was contacted by scammers pretending to be the police. They told her 
that her Nationwide account was being investigated as it was involved in fraudulent activity. 
She was told by the scammer that staff at Nationwide were involved and she needed to 
remove cash from the account and hand it over to the scammers as evidence.
On 5 and 6 November 2019 Mrs C visited a Nationwide branch and withdrew £5,000 in cash 
on each occasion. Shed initially tried to withdraw £10,000 and was told this was too much to 
take in one day without advance notice but she could withdraw half that day, half the next. 
On 6 November 2019 she also visited a different branch and transferred £15,000 from her 
savings account to her current account. Later that day Mrs C realised shed been the victim 
of a scam when scammers asked her to buy euros and hand them over to them. 
She made a complaint to Nationwide in November 2019 as she didnt feel it had done 
enough to question her actions. Had it done more, she believes it wouldve prevented the 
payments being made. Nationwide didnt accept this. It felt it had sufficiently questioned Mrs 
C when she made the transactions she did.
Mrs C brought the complaint to our service but our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. 
They felt Nationwide had likely sufficiently questioned her about the payment before it was 
made. Mrs C didnt accept this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute the transfers Mrs C made were authorised payments even though she 
was being coerced into making them as part of a sophisticated scam. She made the 
payments herself and under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and 
conditions of her account, Mrs C is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
Nationwide should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
For branch transactions like this, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.
Its clear that some intervention did take place when Mrs C made the two cash withdrawals 
she did in branch. I say this because the cashier that served her on both occasions recalls 
the make and model of the car Mrs C said she wanted to buy with the money she was 
withdrawing and when she said she was collecting it. 
Mrs C disputes this conversation took place in any depth. Shes indicated she thinks the 
cashier was inexperienced and although asked a couple of questions about what she was 
doing, these questions werent sufficient in line with Nationwides obligations.
I have no way of knowing exactly what conversation took place between Mrs C and the 
cashier when she made the two cash withdrawals she did. Both Mrs C and the cashier have 
provided their testimony and their recollections differ. The only details that arent in dispute 
are that Mrs C told Nationwide she wanted the money to buy a car.
Even if I were to accept what Nationwide has said was discussed with Mrs C at the time she 
made the withdrawals, Im not satisfied it did do enough to question her about the payments 
she was making. Car scams are common and something Id expect it to be on the look out 
for. Upon discovering she was planning to buy I car I wouldve expected it to have asked her 
whether shed seen the car and what checks shed carried out. And, I wouldve expected it to 
have given her targeted warnings about car scams and information about how she could 
protect herself.
But, although I dont believe Nationwide did enough when it intervened, had it acted as I 
think it reasonably ought to have done, I dont think the scam wouldve likely been 
uncovered.
Mrs wasnt genuinely buying a car. It seems she was coached by the scammers to give this 
as a cover story. If shed been asked if shed seen the car and carried out checks I think its 
more likely than not she wouldve simply said yes to avoid suspicion and to maintain the 
cover story shed already given. After all, she suspected staff at Nationwide were involved in 
using her account fraudulently.
Mrs C has said staff shouldve asked her if it were possible to pay by a means other than in 
cash and feels this wouldve uncovered the scam, but I cant see how. She was already 
giving Nationwide a cover story. As with the examples Ive given above I think its likely she 
wouldve said what she needed to in order to maintain that story. And, essentially, 
Nationwide wouldnt have been able to insist she paid for the car by another means. Mrs C 
was entitled to make cash withdrawals of her own money.
So whilst I think Nationwide ought reasonably to have identified the risk of a car purchase 
scam and there are further questions I wouldve expected it to have asked, I dont think 
these questions likely wouldve uncovered what was really going on.
When Mrs C moved £15,000 from her savings account to her current account she again 
provided a cover story  that the money was covering her share of a holiday home she 
planned to buy with her family. According to its records when she did this Nationwide staff noted she looked worried and upset and discussed the risks of her actions with her and 
offered other options which were declined. 
Nationwide hasnt provided any detail around what risks or alternative options were 
provided, but based on what its recorded I think its clear staff did have concerns about Mrs 
C and had a conversation with her to try and ascertain whether she mightve been the victim 
of a crime. But, given her cover story, upon further consideration it was thought it was likely 
the decision to move the money had been genuine. 
So based on what I can see, even when Nationwide staff did intervene, Mrs C didnt disclose 
or discuss what was really going on. And whilst I accept she had been coached by 
scammers, who shes said were on the phone listening at times, Nationwide could only act 
on the information it was being given. 
Overall, I dont think Nationwide has missed an opportunity to prevent Mrs C from losing her 
money in this case. So although Im sorry to hear whats happened to her, I cant fairly ask 
Nationwide to reimburse her for her loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman