DRN-3454880
The complaint
P a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed its account. 
P is represented by Mr O in his capacity as Company Director.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. And a timeline of events has 
been previously documented by the investigator and provided to both parties. As neither 
party has disputed the timeline of events in relation to the crux of this complaint, I wont 
repeat all the information here. Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O has made considerable submissions in bringing this complaint to both HSBC and this 
service. Id like to assure Mr O that I have read and considered all the correspondence in full 
 including the information provided after the investigator had responded to his complaint. 
And I hope the fact that I do not respond in a similar detail will not be taken as a discourtesy. 
As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond 
to every point made but to consider the crux of the complaint. 
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator. I know Mr O 
will be disappointed, so Ill explain why. 
Account review and closure 
Ill set out some context for HSBCs review of Ps account. UK legislation places extensive 
obligations on regulated financial businesses. They must establish the purpose and intended 
nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds on accounts held with them, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. Im 
satisfied HSBC were complying with these obligations when it reviewed Ps account under 
what it refers to as a safeguarding review. 
I appreciate Mr O was concerned that the initial correspondence he received asking him to 
provide information about P wasnt genuine. But he has acknowledged receiving them and 
after contacting HSBC it was confirmed that the correspondence was genuine. Overall, Im 
satisfied HSBC provided enough information for Mr O to understand what information was 
needed and why.   
Mr O says that he provided all the information HSBC requested and received confirmation it 
had been received. But Ive seen that HSBC contacted Mr O to explain that there was an 
outstanding issue with a shareholder listed on Ps records with Companies House. The 
deadline for this to be resolved was 7 April 2021. Again, Im satisfied that HSBC provided  
Mr O with clear instructions of what he needed to do and by when to avoid Ps account being 
restricted and subsequently closed. And, as the outstanding issue hadnt been resolved, Im 
also satisfied that HSBC didnt do anything wrong when it restricted Ps account on                
9 April 2021. 
It was after this deadline that Mr O first complained to HSBC. Here, HSBC provided Mr O 
with a further 30 days to fully complete the safeguarding review. Im satisfied that providing a 
further 30 days was fair given the overall timescales Mr O had been given to complete the 
review. The extension was confirmed in a complaint response dated 16 April 2021. 
I understand that Mr O says he didnt receive this letter. But having reviewed it, Ive seen 
that it was correctly dated and addressed. So, on balance, Im persuaded that it was most 
likely sent. In any event, Ive seen that a further letter was sent to Mr O providing notice that 
Ps account would be closed if the safeguarding review wasnt completed by 17 May 2021. 
I acknowledge that during this period Mr O was sent some conflicting emails - some 
suggesting the safeguarding review had been completed while others saying HSBC needed 
more information. However, Ive seen further correspondence that Im satisfied made it clear 
that Mr O needed to take further action. So, even though there were some contradictory 
emails, overall, I find that HSBC provided enough information to Mr O to know the review 
hadnt been completed to HSBCs satisfaction. 
As the review wasnt completed, Im satisfied HSBC didnt act unfairly in subsequently 
closing Ps account    
Delay in transferring the account balance 
HSBC has not disputed that there was a delay in transferring Ps account balance. It paid   
Mr O £150 in recognition of the inconvenience the delay caused. Mr O says he was also 
seeking losses P incurred because of him taking time away from the business to resolve this 
matter and because HSBC delayed sending the account balance. 
As Ive mentioned HSBC was entitled to carry out a safeguarding review and to request that 
Mr O - in his capacity as Ps Director, take the required actions needed with regards the 
shareholder to complete the review. So, Im satisfied HSBCs offer is fair in respect of the 
inconvenience caused. 
And Ive not seen enough to safely say the delay in transferring the account balance caused 
P a loss. And. So, overall, Im not going to ask HSBC to pay further compensation to P.
Complaint handling
Mr O says HSBC didnt respond to all the complaints hes raised relating to this issue. But as 
the investigator has explained complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and, as such, not 
something this service can generally deal with. But, like the investigator, Im satisfied that 
HSBC has provided sufficient information to evidence that it did respond to the crux of          
Mr Os complaint. HSBC has accepted that one complaint Mr O raised wasnt closed down properly. It offered 
Mr O £50 compensation in light of this. Im not persuaded Mr O has been materially 
impacted by this internal administration error, so I think HSBCs is fair.
I note Mr O has mentioned the service he received in branch during these events. And 
further investigation following my involvement has shown that HSBC didnt respond 
specifically to this issue. I appreciate Mr Os frustration that this took us sometime to revert 
to HSBC about this. But the investigator has now explained that HSBC has told us the 
branch staff were following procedures, and that it has apologised if the staff didnt explain 
their actions on the day. 
Overall, I accept that HSBCs complaint handling and the customer service in branch could 
have been handled better at times. But P wasnt caused a financial loss and the service 
wasnt so poor, or the impact so material, that further compensation is appropriate.   
Compensation payments
In response to the investigators view, Mr O said he hadnt received the compensation 
payments mentioned above. But HSBC has since evidenced, and I can see as the 
investigator has confirmed to Mr O that £150 was paid on 21 July 2021 and the further £50 
was paid on 29 March 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint - in the sense that, HSBC UK 
Bank UK Plc has already paid fair compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman