DRN-4516719
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the settlement offer made by Haven Insurance Company 
Limited (Haven) under his motor insurance policy. Mr H is represented in his complaint, but 
for ease Ill refer to him throughout.
What happened
Mr Hs car was involved in an accident in March 2023. He used the car for part-time work as 
a private hire driver.
Haven said his car was beyond economic repair and declared it a write-off. It said it would 
pay Mr H £7,000 which it said was what Mr H was entitled to under this clause in its wording:
If We consider Your Taxi is Beyond Economic Repair as a result of an accident or 
incident covered by this insurance, subject to clause 9 below We will provide the 
owner of Your Taxi with settlement of its Market Value up to the Limit of Coverage 
after deducting the Excess. You should be aware that We are entitled to provide 
settlement up to the Limit of Coverage after deducting the applicable Excess(es) in 
full and final settlement of Your claim for damage to Your Taxi, even if that value is 
under-stated.
Mr H complained about this amount hed receive. Haven said it would increase this amount 
by 10% as a gesture of goodwill. It made an interim payment to Mr H.
Mr H remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. An investigator looked 
into Mr Hs complaint and upheld it. He said he didnt think it was made clear to Mr H that the 
value he gave when hed bought the car and taken out his policy originally should be used to 
limit the payout under the policy.
He thought Haven should pay the cars market value of £10,270, which Haven calculated 
from market guide values. He thought Haven should pay interest at 8% simple on the 
difference between £7,700 and £10,270 from the date the initial payment was made, to the 
date this final payment was made.
He also thought Haven should pay for Mr Hs loss of earnings for a period one month after 
the accident to early June 2023 when hed replaced the car.
Mr H accepted the view. Haven accepted that the market value of the car should be £10,270 
plus interest, but it didnt think it should pay for three months loss of earnings. It said it had 
made an interim payment to Mr H so he could have bought another car and mitigated his 
losses, which hes required to do by the policy.
It asked that the decision was reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to change the outcome from our investigators.
Policy terms
I can see Haven has a clear term in its policy wording about the amount itll payout following 
a claim and Ive included this above.
But I cant see any evidence that this term was brought specifically to Mr Hs attention as 
part of the sales process. I think its fair I say that Id expect a term like this to be explained 
to a customer as I think its significant enough to mean a customer might change their mind 
about whether to choose one particular policy over another.
Mr Hs policy is one that would give market value at the time the car was stolen. So the use 
of the term saying settlement of its Market Value up to the Limit of Coverage wasnt fair as 
it only benefitted the insurer. I dont think the use of this term is fair and I dont reasonably 
think it was brought to Mr Hs attention.
Vehicle value
Ive mentioned above that I dont think Havens use of the term limiting its payment is fair 
and I dont think it wasnt explained to Mr H adequately. So I think its fair and reasonable to 
expect Haven to settle Mr Hs claim without applying that part of the term, meaning it should 
pay a market value figure.
At the time the vehicle was stolen, various trade guides showed the following values for the 
same make and model a Mr Hs:
Company A £10,270
Company B £11,348
Company C £10,550
Company D £11,804
I can see from the file that Haven agreed to pay Mr H £10,270, but I dont think its offer is 
fair. The approach of this service is that Haven should settle a claim at the highest of the 
trade guides, unless it can provide evidence why this amount isnt correct. Havens revised 
offer is at the lowest end of the trade guide market value range and I havent seen evidence 
about why this is fair.
I dont regard any of the values in the trade guides shown above to be an outlier (so I dont 
think any of them can be disregarded) and I think Haven should pay Mr H £11,804 for his 
car.
Haven also need to pay interest at 8% simple on the difference between its interim payment 
of £7,700 and this valuation of £11,804 from the date it made its interim payment to the date 
payment is made.
The figures used above dont take into account the deduction of Mr Hs excess so Haven 
should account for this in its settlement as appropriate.
Loss of earnings
Mr H has also asked Haven to pay for his loss of earnings during the period he didnt have a 
car. Haven has refused to pay for this as it says Mr H had received an interim payment and 
has a duty to mitigate his losses.
But Mr H is a part-time driver. This isnt his main job. And the interim payment made by Haven was substantially lower than the new valuation Ive decided on above. So I dont think 
its fair of Haven to say that Mr H should have bought a replacement car as it hadnt given 
him the necessary funds to do this. Mr H has also said the amount of money hed typically 
earn from his role wouldnt be enough to rent a car.
I asked Mr H to provide evidence that he lost income. I asked him for his 2022 figures and 
proof he hadnt worked in 2023. I can see that the difference between the two figures (for 
April, May, to 3 June) was about £596. Mr H would have had some costs in running his car 
during this time so I think its fair to deduct a reasonable amount in respect of his fuel.
I asked Mr H for some information about this and he gave me a figure that doesnt fit within 
the income hes suggested. So Ive thought further about this and Id propose to deduct 
costs of £300 from the above figure, so Mr H would be entitled to receive £296 from Haven 
for his loss of earnings.
Hes been put in a position by Haven that he reasonably didnt have a vehicle to work in, so I 
think its fair to require Haven to pay him this amount which represents his earnings from the 
period he wasnt able to carry out his private hire work.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agreed with my provisional decision, my final decision and reasoning remain 
the same.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I direct Haven Insurance Company Limited 
to:
Settle Mr Hs claim for the loss of his car at a market value of £11,804 subject to the 
terms and conditions of his policy. Interest at 8% simple should be added to on the 
difference between the interim payment and this figure, from the date the interim 
payment was made to the date this payment is made.
If Haven considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay Mr H £296 in respect of his loss of earnings.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman