DRN-3760278
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund payments he says he didnt make with 
his credit card.
What happened
Mr K says that his credit card was taken by police during the time he was in custody in 
November 2020 and not returned to him. He says it must have been used fraudulently by a 
police officer who discovered his PIN, and so he isnt responsible for the balance of nearly 
£1,900.
Lloyds said it wouldnt be refunding the money. It said that this was due to a lack of 
evidence of there being fraud. And that Mr K could ask the police to investigate things 
further and contact Lloyds police liaison team directly if there was any further evidence.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr K had said he was in 
custody for two weeks from 13 November 2020 but the payments hed disputed with Lloyds 
had started after that period. Our investigator noted that an online repayment had been 
made to the account on 9 December 2020 which he thought likely was by Mr K. Payments 
had been made using the card on 10 December 2020 and which Mr K confirmed he disputed 
too. But these seemed consistent with the past genuine use of the card. The disputed 
payments didnt resume again until 20 December 2020. A PIN would have been required for 
many of them. Lloyds noted that Mr K had told it that he gave the PIN to police. Mr K now 
said that wasnt correct. Our investigator didnt think that there was a credible explanation of 
how a third party had discovered the PIN. He thought that the payments were either carried 
out by Mr K or someone hed allowed to use his card.
Mr K didnt agree. He said that he was never in possession of his credit card as the police 
didnt return it. He said it was only his debit card that was returned after going to court. He 
had provided evidence about his arrest. He said that police had tried to force him to reveal 
his PIN, but he informed his bank of this and was told not to. Mr K said that the spending on 
the card was mostly outside London while he was on bail and a doorstep curfew and there 
was surveillance outside his address. There were also restrictions linked to the pandemic at 
this time and the police had his vehicle. The police investigation wasnt dismissed until 24 
November 2021 with no further action then taken.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its not 
enough for it just to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. Where credit is involved, as 
is the case here on credit cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies, and it states that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card.  
So, Ive thought about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- Whats the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN?
- Did Mr K authorise these payments which might have involved allowing someone else to 
use his card?
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely.
Based on the payment audit information from Lloyds Im satisfied that the payments in 
dispute were made with the genuine card and authenticated. I say that because a number of 
them required the chip on the genuine card to be read and the PIN entered, and a number 
were contactless which again required the card. The issue is whether Mr K consented to 
them.
I have considered what hes said and provided carefully. He gave this service a copy of an 
email hed sent to a number of parties including members of the police service on 7 April 
2021. That gave reference numbers relating to police reports and custody records. Notably 
in that email he stated that he hadnt had property taken during a search of his address 
returned. And that he had been taken into custody in November 2020. He said police had 
discharged him without his house key, car key, vehicle, bank cards, money or mobile 
devices or any transport support. He did allege that there had been fraud by an officer with 
his stolen property. I havent seen any further update and its fairly up to Mr K to provide 
evidence to support his complaint and about any investigation into what were very serious 
allegations.
Ive looked at what Lloyds noted he told it when he discussed these credit card payments in 
February 2021. It was noted that he had given his PIN to police. And he was asked for 
information about when he was released from custody which hed been unable to provide 
but says was about after two weeks. It was noted he was asked when he was given his card 
back but that he didnt have a calendar or his phone to keep track of this.
He's told this service that he didnt give his PIN to police. But that he thinks police would 
have technology to be able to obtain it. Im afraid hes just not substantiated how that could 
have happened. Hes said hes never had his credit card back. And that police hadnt given 
him a list of what had been seized. He hadnt got a phone and couldnt report what 
happened to Lloyds. He found out what happened from a statement.
Ive looked at the pattern of disputed payments on his account. And I agree with our 
investigator that those on 10 December 2020 look consistent with past genuine spend and 
seemed to take place relatively close to where Mr K lived. I think it most likely that a 
fraudster in possession of a card and PIN would take as much money as quickly as possible 
as that person would risk detection at any time. Here there was a gap of 10 days before the 
card was used again. And the usage after that was consistent with travel across every 
nation of the United Kingdom including payments for road and tunnel tolls, a ferry ticket and 
hotels. Payments were being approved up to 11 January 2021 and its unclear why attempts 
to use the card ceased and theres no record of declined payment attempts provided by 
Lloyds. On one hand that all seems unusual activity for a fraudster. But on the other I also 
note Mr Ks point that this was at a time of differing pandemic restrictions in the United 
Kingdom and on his account he was subject to police bail and a curfew.
There was a repayment to his account on 9 December 2020. A statement issued on 16 
November 2020 had a closing balance of £500.47 and due to repayments already made set out that no minimum repayment was required that month. A repayment of £503.27 was 
though made and notably that balance included a payment for travel of £2.80 that had been 
made on 16 November 2020 and posted to the account after the statement on 17 November 
2020. That indicates to me that the person making the repayment had access online to the 
account to see the balance. And I find it difficult to think that anyone other than Mr K or 
someone acting on his behalf would have made that repayment whether he had his card 
and phone or not. I conclude it would most likely have been possible to see what payments 
were made to his account and to report if his card wasnt in his possession at an earlier 
time.
I need to think about the possibility that Mr K allowed someone else to have and use his 
card and that it was never part of the items seized by police  or alternatively that it was 
returned to him. It does based on the payment referred to above seem to have been used 
on 16 November 2020 too at a time when Mr K says he was in custody.
I need to balance all these factors in making my decision about what is most likely. Having 
done so I find it most likely that Mr K consented to his card being used which could have 
involved someone else having it. I say that taking into account the lack of supporting 
evidence for what he says, the apparent inconsistency in terms of what hes said about the 
PIN on the card and the lack of anything to show how this was compromised, and also the 
pattern of disputed activity on the card and the repayment Ive referred to above. 
I know that Mr K is very unhappy with the way he says he has been treated by police and 
sees this complaint as a continuation of that. Ive made my decision about this complaint on 
the evidence that is available and Im afraid as Ive explained I dont have a basis to say that 
Lloyds has acted unreasonably in holding Mr K responsible for these credit card payments.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman