DRN-3561088
The complaint
Mr P complains that PayrNet Limited (Pockit) refused to refund £220 which failed to 
dispense when he tried to withdraw funds from a cash machine. He also complains that they 
closed his account. 
What happened
Mr P had a pre-paid Pockit branded account  who provide services on behalf of PayrNet  
so I will refer to PayrNet as Pockit in this decision. 
Mr P told us that in February 2021 he tried to withdraw £220 at a cash machine. He said a 
receipt came out but the cash did not dispense and the machine took his card. He waited 
around for around a minute but still the cash and card did not come out of the machine. He 
was on his own, and saw no one in his vicinity at that time.  He returned around six hours 
later to speak to the shop the cash machine was affixed to  who told him to contact his 
bank or the owner of the cash machine. 
Mr P said he complained about what happened to Pockit but he didnt receive any response 
from them. He was unable to get a refund or a new card but was not clear why  he said 
they just kept asking him for verification and identification, which he provided but this failed 
to progress the matter. This meant Mr P had no card for over a year as this had been his 
only card. He has had to get his benefits paid into his partners account until recently when 
he got a new account. 
Pockit did not provide Mr P or our service a particularly substantial response to this 
complaint. Our investigator did request various information, including information from the 
cash machine to show what happened at the time of the disputed withdrawal, but PayrNet 
did not provide this. They said this was because they use third party ATMs they were unable 
to access the information our investigator had requested, and so they were unable to provide 
it.
Our investigator looked into what happened and recommended that Pockit refund Mr P the 
£220 and that they pay Mr P £300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience he had 
suffered as a result of Pockits lack of communication and failure to give him a new card 
meaning he had to make alternative banking arrangements, on top of declining the refund. 
Pockit did not agree or provide any additional evidence from the cash machine after this  so 
this complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons  Ill explain why. 
In order to fairly and reasonably hold Mr P liable for this transaction, Pockit ought to be able 
to demonstrate that they were entitled to debit the £220 from his account. This normally 
involves evidence such as the technical electronic records that may show whether the 
withdrawal went through and dispensed as requested. 
Pockit are able to ask the ATM owner  another financial business  for this information. 
This is very standard practice in cases where customers report that an ATM did not dispense 
the cash they requested  as has happened here. However Pockit have not done so, despite 
our service requesting this evidence for them over some time. 
As an independent service, we expect both parties to the dispute to provide us with the 
evidence they have in support of their arguments. So I would expect Pockit to have 
requested the evidence from the ATM owner, and provided this to us to show that they were 
entitled to debit the £220 from Mr Ps account. Despite this being requested before and after 
our investigator presented their opinion on this case, they have failed to do so. Pockit have 
not evidenced their argument. 
Without this, I cannot rule out that the cash machine was subject to an error and did not 
dispense the cash, or took it back in, or that the machine had been tampered with by 
fraudsters to trap the cash for themselves. The only real evidence as to what happened in 
this case is that of Mr Ps testimony  and I see no reason to disbelieve what he has told us. 
So, on the evidence available to me, it is my decision that Pockit cannot fairly and 
reasonably hold Mr P liable. It follows that I think they must refund the £220 and pay 8% 
simple interest on this sum to compensate Mr P for the time he has been without his money.
I have also considered the impact this has had on Mr P  he told us that he was never 
provided a replacement Pockit card and did not have any other account so he had to use his 
partners account until he was able to get a new account. It appears there has also been a 
lack of communication which added to the stress and inconvenience Mr P suffered. Whilst 
money cannot undo this, I think Pockit must pay Mr P £300 in recognition of the trouble and 
upset he experienced. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require PayrNet Limited to:
Refund the £220 disputed cash withdrawal; 
Pay simple interest to Mr P on this transaction from the date of the loss until the date 
the payment is made, at a rate of 8% simple interest 
Pay Mr P £300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience he suffered as a 
result of this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman