DRN-1484515
The complaint
Mr S complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) paid him a lower annuity 
and a lower tax-free cash lump sum than what it originally said it would pay. Mr S said 
Scottish Widows had said the amount it would pay was guaranteed and hed like it to honour 
that guarantee.
What happened
Mr S held a personal pension plan with Scottish Widows. In September 2019 he wanted to 
draw his benefits. He contacted Scottish Widows who confirmed the pension plan value was 
£214,952.37. It confirmed the process involved and arranged another telephone 
appointment for 24 September 2019 to discuss matters further. 
During that telephone appointment the plan value was confirmed as being £218,229.30 (as 
of the previous day). Mr S also provided some details about his health so that Scottish 
Widows could consider if he qualified for an enhanced annuity  it needed the underwriters 
to look into that possibility  so another appointment was made, which was subsequently 
rescheduled for 9 October 2019.  
During the discussion of 9 October 2019, it was confirmed that Mr S didnt qualify for an 
enhanced annuity. So Scottish Widows gave some standard quotations verbally and said it 
would issue them in writing. It said it confirmed quotations were guaranteed for 30 days. 
Mr S then called Scottish Widows on 16 October 2019 and asked for one quotation  
involving the dependents pension, to be revised, which was then sent to him.
On 22 October 2019 Mr S contacted Scottish Widows to discuss some alterations to his 
quotations. The plan valuation that was provided to him during that call was the same value 
that had been given to him previously.  Scottish Widows then wrote to Mr S with the relevant 
information and a standard comparative illustration which showed he might receive an 
income of £7,857.12 per annum. However, another letter dated the following day, which 
Mr S said he didnt receive, confirmed the plan value was £214,229.55 and the residual 
annuity would be £7,725.48.
Mr S provided the outstanding information required by Scottish Widows and it was confirmed 
in a subsequent letter that the tax-free cash had been paid and an annuity of £7,725.48 per 
annum had been set up with the first monthly instalment due to begin on 22 November 2019. 
But Mr S wasnt happy and complained. He said that when his annuity was set up it was 
lower than hed expected, because hed been told his quote would be guaranteed. He 
wanted Scottish Widows to honour an annuity based on the fund value hed been told on 
9 October 2019. 
Scottish Widows said it hadnt guaranteed the fund value in any of the quotations it had 
issued and had maintained the pension would be based on the value of the fund when it 
received all the outstanding documentation needed to set up the annuity. Although it 
confirmed the annuity rate had been guaranteed for 30 days. So it didnt think it should 
honour the higher annuity quotations it had originally provided. But it did accept it had 
provided poor customer service and may have raised Mr Ss expectations of what he would 
receive. So it offered £150 compensation and the opportunity for Mr S to reverse his 
decision to annuitise and make an alternative decision.  
Mr S wasnt happy with that outcome and brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He said that Scottish Widows had been clear that it 
would use the fund value at the time of receiving all the completed paperwork when it came 
to calculate the annuity payable. But he didnt think Scottish Widows had been completely 
clear in explaining that the guarantees that were discussed during the telephone calls 
applied to annuity rates and not the fund values. So he thought Scottish Widows offer of 
£150 and the chance to reverse the annuity decision was a fair and reasonable one.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that at no point during the telephone conversations he had with 
Scottish Widows did it confirm that the fund value was subject to fluctuation. He also said 
that Scottish Widows didnt sent any written communication that the annuity would be less 
than what it told him in October 2019. He didnt think the offer was a fair and reasonable 
outcome and wanted the matter referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed to me for 
review. 
However, the investigator did respond to Mr S and said that as hed been provided with two 
different fund values in September and October 2019, he should have been aware that the 
values could fluctuate  before he decided to go ahead with the annuity. He also said the 
illustrations Scottish Widows provided stated that Mr S might receive that income which 
suggested it wasnt guaranteed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I agree with the investigator and for largely the same reasons. Ive seen 
how strongly Mr S feels about this matter and I have some sympathy for his position here, 
but I think that Scottish Widows offer to put things right is fair and reasonable. I know that 
outcome will disappoint Mr S  so Ill explain my reasons. 
Did Scottish Widows guarantee Mr Ss fund valuation in communications with him?
Mr S says that Scottish Widows told him his fund value was guaranteed and thinks it should 
set his annuity, and tax-free cash lump sum, at the level the original fund value would have 
provided.  So, Ive carefully considered the information Scottish Widows provided Mr S  
starting with the written correspondence. 
Ive looked at the letter it sent on 16 September 2019 which, on the first line stated, your 
existing policy value as at 13 September 2019 is £214,952.37. Please note this value is not 
guaranteed. And the letter it sent on 24 September 2019, which contained an annuity 
quotation and other relevant forms said, under the important notes, the actual fund value 
used to provide your annuity will normally be calculated on the day we receive all the 
information required for payment.a change to the fund value may result in the annuity 
amount calculated being higher or lower than that shown in this quotation. 
However, it did confirm that the annuity rate used to calculate the annuity income shown in 
the quotation will apply, provided:.we receive all the required documentation no more than 
30 days from the date of the quotation.This information was repeated in the subsequent annuity quotation letters of 
9, 16 and 23 October 2019. So, I think Scottish Widows, through its correspondence prior to 
paying the annuity, made it clear that the fund value wasnt guaranteed and that only when it 
had received all the required information to calculate the annuity would it use the fund value 
applicable at that time. 
But Mr S says the guarantee was discussed when he spoke with Scottish Widows in 
October 2019. He says that he should have been made aware, when he asked during the 
telephone conversations if the fund value could fluctuate and was given its current value  
whether it had fallen. He doesnt understand how the value could have fallen by around 
£4,000 in the week from 16 to 23 October 2019. 
And I can understand Mr Ss frustrations here when he looks at the information hes been 
provided with. I do accept that other guarantees would have been discussed when 
Mr S contacted Scottish Widows about the quotations hed received. One of those 
guarantees would have been that the annuity rate used would itself be guaranteed for up to 
30 days. Unfortunately, Scottish Widows is no longer able to provide a recording of those 
calls, so Ive had to base my decision on what I think was most likely to have been said and 
discussed.
I think its likely Mr S would have wanted to confirm the plan value and it would have been 
logical for him to have asked if the values were guaranteed. I dont dispute what Mr S says 
he asked Scottish Widows during that call. But I think whoever Mr S spoke with would have 
known that the fund value wasnt guaranteed and was more likely to have meant that the 
rate used to calculate the annuity was itself guaranteed. I say that because the quotations 
that Mr S was sent confirmed that the annuity rate was guaranteed within 30 days of the 
quotation date, and they confirmed the fund value wasnt guaranteed until all the required 
documentation was required. I think its likely the adviser would have simply repeated that 
information which was the process which Scottish Widows used here. So, I think this was 
more likely than not a genuine misunderstanding of which part of the process was 
guaranteed (fund value or annuity rates) here. 
So Im not persuaded that Scottish Widows provided Mr S with any guarantees that it didnt 
subsequently honour, and I dont think it should be obliged to calculate the annuity based on 
the original fund value that was quoted from September 2019. If Mr S were to be given an 
annuity based on that value, hed be in a better position than he should have been based on 
the terms and conditions and Scottish Widows requirement when calculating a plan holders 
annuity income.
But Scottish Widows did suggest this information wasnt made completely clear in the call 
and I would have expected Mr S to have understood the differences between the guarantees 
here if theyd been explained properly to him.  And it isnt clear that Scottish Widows 
explained to Mr S that the fund value it quoted was the same one that it had used previously 
and therefore may, in reality, have changed in the meantime. I think if it had explained these 
two points Mr S would have known that the annuity he was going to receive might not have 
been the same as the one hed been quoted in the illustrations  and he might have 
reviewed his options accordingly.
What would Mr S have done?
Ive already acknowledged that Scottish Widows could have done more here, by both 
confirming the actual value that was being used in the last call Mr S had with Scottish Widows and by being more explicit that the guarantee only applied to the annuity rate. So 
Ive thought carefully about what would have happened if Scottish Widows had been clearer 
in this situation. 
If Mr S had been aware of the lower fund value, he would have had the choice to either 
accept the annuity that would have provided or to revoke his decision to draw his benefits. 
And, like the investigator I believe thats the position Mr S now finds himself in. He is 
receiving an annuity based on the lower, but correct fund value, and he was offered the 
opportunity to withdraw his application and return to the position of not having drawn the 
pension benefits. 
So even if I were to say that Scottish Widows should have treated Mr S better, I believe its 
offer puts him as close to the position he should be in now had he been able to decide what 
to do based on the lower fund valuation. 
Mr S says hed been offered a better annuity option from his adviser and has provided a 
screenshot of a comparison report. But that was based on a higher purchase price than Mr S 
had available and its not clear on what basis the comparison had been calculated. However, 
the comparison which was dated 11 October, was a snapshot of annuities available on that 
date and there was no guarantee that would have been the same at a later date, particularly 
when based on a lower fund value. And I note that even though the other provider offered a 
higher annuity Scottish Widows was still chosen as Mr Ss preferred provider. So, I have to 
conclude there were other factors which helped to determine his decision as well as the 
annuity payable.
Scottish Widows errors and compensation offer.
Ive said that Scottish Widows should have done more here, so the only remaining issue is 
whether it has made a fair and reasonable offer to compensate Mr S for the lack of clarity in 
its verbal communication and the raising of his expectation of what level of annuity he would 
receive. And, overall, I think the sum offered is within the range of what Id expect to see for 
matters such as these, so Im not going to ask Scottish Widows to do any more.
Ultimately here Mr S says he was told his annuity would be a certain figure when he spoke 
with Scottish Widows  but that wasnt the case. Ive said that there was probably a 
misunderstanding during the telephone calls between both parties, but Im satisfied that Mr S 
did believe his annuity would be guaranteed when he completed the call. And Scottish 
Widows should have been clearer  which it has accepted. 
But Mr S received a number of quotations and letters during the process which made it clear 
that the fund value wasnt guaranteed, and that his annuity would be based on a calculation 
using the actual fund value when all the outstanding documents and paperwork had been 
provided. 
Scottish Widows has offered to put Mr S into the same position hed now be in, with the 
addition of £150 compensation, if it had explained that his fund value wasnt guaranteed and 
had told him the correct value during the October 2019 calls. I think that offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Putting things rightScottish Widows Limited has already made an offer to pay £150 and restore Mr Ss annuity 
to its original position (before it was converted to an annuity) to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Scottish Widows Limited should pay £150. Mr S needs to tell Scottish 
Widows if he wants to restore his pension to the pre annuity position.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given Scottish Widows Limited should do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman