DRN-4211553
The complaint
Miss T complains about the charges Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited trading as 
Swinton Insurance applied when she cancelled her policy as her insurers wouldnt cover her 
new car.
What happened
Miss T had insurance for her car arranged through Swinton. In April 2022 Miss T was 
changing her car and called Swinton to arrange cover for her new vehicle. They advised her 
that her current insurers were unable to offer a quotation.
Swinton said theyd tried to find alternative cover for Miss T but she wasnt happy with the 
quotes they obtained from other insurers on their panel as they were too expensive. So Miss 
Ts cancelled her policy and there was a balance of £337.27 due to Swinton in respect of her 
annual premium.
Miss T raised a complaint as she didnt think it was fair for her to have to pay the outstanding 
balance and cancellation charges, when she was happy to stay with the same insurer, but 
they wouldnt provide cover for her new car. She also complained that while she was trying 
to discuss the case with Swinton on 8 April 2022 the line dropped and they didnt call her 
back.
Swinton didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. They said the decision not to quote for her new 
vehicle was made by her insurers, not by them. They werent privy to the decision but said it 
was based on the insurers assessment of the likelihood of her making a claim. But as it 
wasnt their decision, they werent upholding this aspect of her complaint.
They accepted that her call to them on 8 April 2022 dropped out, and said they attempted to 
call her back but were unable to reach her. And shed called back later that day to discuss 
her concerns.
Miss T then complained to our service. Before her case was allocated to an investigator she 
called us as she was being contacted on a daily basis, by a debt collection agency acting on 
behalf of Swinton. She told us shed set up a payment plan in respect of the balance due to 
them, so she didnt understand why she was being hounded about it. We contacted 
Swinton who acknowledged that they shouldnt have referred the debt and they agreed to 
put this on hold and take £35 off the balance by way of apology. Miss T wasnt happy with 
the sum Swinton offered for this.
Our investigator considered the case and partially upheld Miss Ts complaint. He said that 
when Miss T changed her car her insurers werent prepared to cover her new vehicle. 
Swinton tried to obtain alternative quotations for her, but none of these were at a comparable 
price. So Miss T cancelled her policy as she could obtain cheaper insurance elsewhere. 
While our investigator understood Miss Ts frustration with having to cancel her policy, he 
said Swinton werent responsible for her current insurers being unwilling to cover her new 
vehicle. Or for the quotations provided by their other panel insurers. 
Miss T paid her premium by monthly instalments and had an outstanding claim on her policy.  
So when the policy was cancelled she was required to pay the outstanding balance of her 
premium, which she thinks is unfair. Our investigator thought this was fair because of the 
outstanding claim. 
But he felt that taking into account the time Miss T spent on the phone with Swinton and their 
referral of her balance to a debt collection agency, the £35 compensation offer wasnt 
enough, and this should be increased to £100.
Swinton accepted our investigators opinion but Miss T didnt. She remains unhappy that 
Swinton couldnt find alternative cover for her. She also told us that shed spoken to her 
insurers. They confirmed they werent prepared to cover the make of car she was buying but 
expressed surprise that Swinton couldnt find her alternative cover.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss T was unhappy when Swinton told her that her insurer wasnt 
prepared to cover her new car. And its good to hear that by speaking direct to her insurer 
she understands why. 
It wasnt Swinton who made the decision not to cover Miss Ts new car. So I cant hold them 
responsible for that decision. But it does seem that during a number of telephone 
conversations Miss T was given unclear and misleading information about whether or not 
her new car could be covered. And also about whether Swinton could offer her cover with 
another of their panel insurers. 
I think Swinton could have provided a clear answer on these points more quickly than they 
did. If they had then Miss T would have experienced less frustration and inconvenience.
Her insurers wouldnt cover her new car and Swinton couldnt offer alternative cover with 
another insurer at a price acceptable to Miss T. While this is something she finds surprising 
its not something Im able to comment on as the cost of cover and the vehicles an insurer is 
prepared to insure is part of their assessment of risk. And Im considering Swintons actions 
not the price for cover Miss T was quoted.
As Swinton couldnt offer Miss T acceptable alternative cover she cancelled her policy. She 
wasnt charged a cancellation fee, which I think is right in the circumstances. But she was 
paying her insurance premium by instalments and when her policy was cancelled the 
outstanding balance due to Swinton was £337.27. 
Miss T has said that when a policy is cancelled before the period of cover ends, shed expect 
to receive a refund. But in this case she made a claim on the policy which was outstanding. 
So if shed paid her premium in full she wouldnt have received a refund. And as she was 
paying by instalments the balance of the premium became due. So I cant say Swinton did 
anything wrong in required Miss T to pay this.
Swinton referred the recovery of this sum to debt collectors. As shed agreed to enter into a 
payment plan they accept they shouldnt have done this. They agreed to reduce the amount owing to them my £35 by way of apology. Miss T has told us that she was hounded by debt 
collectors over a period of weeks, until she contacted us and we asked Swinton to put the 
recovery action on hold. 
Swinton have agreed referring the case to debt collectors should never have happened. And 
I think doing this added to the poor level of service she received from them.
As a result of how Swinton handled the cancellation of her policy Im satisfied that Miss T 
has suffered distress and inconvenience and should be compensated for this. And I dont 
think the £35 Swinton have offered is sufficient. 
Taking everything into account I think £150, inclusive of the £35 Swinton have offered, is the 
appropriate level of compensation.
We asked both parties for their comments on the £150 compensation Ive said I consider to 
be appropriate in this case. Swinton have agreed to pay this amount and Miss T has 
confirmed that shes prepared to accept it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Miss Ts complaint about Atlanta Insurance 
Intermediaries Limited trading as Swinton Insurance.
And to put things right I require them to pay her £150 compensation, inclusive of the £35 
theyve offered, for the distress and inconvenience caused by the way in which they handled 
the cancellation of her policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman