DRN-1428142
The complaint
Mr N complains about his mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. He believes 
hes paid too much interest and the capital hasnt reduced fast enough. And he complains 
about the way Halifax has handled giving its consent to let the property out. 
What happened
Mr N has a mortgage with Halifax. Although its a residential mortgage he isnt living in the 
property and Halifax has given him consent to let it out.
Mr N took the mortgage over a 40-year term in 2008. He borrowed around £78,000. In 2019 
he says he realised that he had paid £53,000 over the ten years since the mortgage was 
taken out  but his balance had only reduced to just under £71,000. This means he has paid 
over £45,000 in interest and only £7,000 in capital in that time. Mr N doesnt consider that 
fair and is concerned the mortgage will never be paid off at that rate. He says this means the 
mortgage was mis-sold to him.
Mr N also says he was told he had consent to let permanently  and then was told it had to 
be renewed.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld, so Mr N asked for an 
ombudsman to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ns concerns about his balance. Hes a quarter of the way through his 
mortgage term  but has paid off much less than a quarter of the capital, and paid far more 
in interest. I can see how he would find this confusing.
But, in fact, its nothing to worry about. Its how mortgages work. Theres a complicated 
calculation called amortisation that sits behind it  Mr N may be able to find some 
illustrations of how an amortisation calculation works online.
In summary, and in very simple terms, Mr N isnt paying off exactly the same amount of 
interest and the same amount of capital each and every month of the mortgage. 
Interest is calculated each day on the outstanding balance, and added to the mortgage each 
month. At the start of the mortgage term, the balance is high  and so the interest added is 
high. As a result, most of the monthly payment covers that interest. But theres a bit left over 
to reduce the capital by a small amount. 
Then the next month, because the capital balance is a bit smaller, the interest charged is a 
bit less. This means that more of the same monthly payment goes to capital than in the 
previous month  and so the balance reduces by slightly more that month than the previous 
month.This process continues through the life of the mortgage. Each month (assuming the interest 
rate doesnt change) Mr N pays the same amount. But at the start more of that payment 
goes to interest than to capital, and at the end more goes to capital than to interest. With a 
very long term mortgage  Mr Ns term is 40 years  this effect is magnified. 
In short, what Mr H has identified with his mortgage  that in the first quarter hes paid a lot 
of interest and little capital  isnt a problem. Its how the mortgage is supposed to work. 
Over the next thirty years he will notice the amount of capital reduction each month 
accelerating, and in the final ten years the proportions of each monthly payment that cover 
interest and capital will be approximately reversed.
As I say, this is how mortgages are supposed to work. All repayment mortgages, from all 
lenders, work in this way. Mr Ns mortgage is on track to be repaid in full even though hes 
only paid much less than a quarter of the capital so far.
Mr N was given an indefinite consent to let. He told Halifax he now intends to move back into 
the property. If he can give Halifax evidence hes done so  such as utility bills in his name  
it will remove the consent to let and then Mr N can apply for a reduced interest rate. 
Although this wont change the overall profile of how his mortgage is repaid, it would reduce 
the monthly payments. I think thats fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman