DRN-2721916
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) led her to believe she was 
eligible for a higher rate of interest on her account with them. 
What happened
Mrs D says she applied for a FlexDirect account (FD) in February 2020 to benefit from an 
introductory rate of credit interest, following a webchat with a member of Nationwides team 
who confirmed this with her husband. Mrs D say a few months later she discovered she 
wasnt getting this rate because she had previously held a FD account with Nationwide and 
wasnt eligible. Mrs D says her accounts mirror her husbands and when he was told he 
was eligible for the introductory interest rate, she believed she would be too. Mrs D says 
Nationwide didnt notify her when they amended the interest rate from the introductory 
interest rate to the standard interest rate on the account.
Nationwide says they have no record of discussing her eligibility for the introductory interest 
rate, only with her husband, about his own affairs. Nationwide says Mrs D had previously 
benefited from an introductory interest rate on pervious sole and joint accounts she held with 
them. Nationwide says the terms and conditions of the FD confirm an account holder can 
only benefit once from this offer and the correct interest rate was applied to Mrs Ds FD 
account. 
Mrs D was unhappy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
She felt Nationwide had not discussed the terms of the introductory interest rate with Mrs D, 
only with her husband regarding his personal matters. The investigator says as Mrs D had 
previously benefited from an introductory interest rate, she wasnt eligible for it again and this 
was clear in the terms and conditions for the FD account. The investigator says Nationwide 
didnt need to send a separate notice to Mrs D when correcting the interest rate on her FD 
account to what it should have been, as it is clear in its terms and conditions this is only 
available once. 
Mrs D wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can see it would have been frustrating for Mrs D to have believed she was eligible for the 
introductory interest rate, after her husband had checked with Nationwide before she opened 
the FD account with them. When looking at this complaint I will consider if Nationwide were 
right to apply the standard interest rate on her FD account and if Mrs D was misled into 
believing she was eligible for the introductory interest rate on offer.
What happened here is Mrs D opened a FD account online with Nationwide in February 
2020. Mrs D says she noticed a few months later she wasnt getting the introductory interest 
rate offer that had been confirmed to her husband, by way of webchat with Nationwide, 
before opening the account. 
Mrs D has explained to this service that she has a mirror of her husbands banking affairs, so 
when Nationwide told him he was eligible, after him making enquiries, then there was every 
reason to believe she would be eligible too. Mrs D says Nationwide opened the FD account 
with the introductory rate and then changed it a few days later to the standard interest rate 
but never informed her of this. Mrs D feels this shows Nationwide arent following guidance 
set out by the relevant authorities nor is it consistent with their own terms and conditions 
when advising its customers of changes in interest rates offered.  
I can understand the points Mrs D has made here and the first thing to say is while Mrs D  
makes reference to a similar complaint bought to this service by her husband, I will be 
looking at this case, like all complaints, based on its own individual merits. Its also worth 
saying although Nationwide may have provided information to Mrs Ds husband about the 
eligibility of the introductory interest rate, that is not the same as them providing that 
information to her. As a result, I cant say that Nationwide have provided Mrs D directly with 
information of the eligibility of the introductory interest rate here, even if she decided to use 
that for her decision to open the FD account. 
I can see Mrs D had previously opened FD accounts in 2017 with Nationwide, both in her 
sole name and jointly with her husband and received the introductory interest rate at that 
time. The terms and conditions of the FD account says:
Introductory rates and offers:
6. If you have previously held a Nationwide current account you are not entitled to the 
introductory rate or offer (where applicable) for that current account product under this 
agreement.
Its important to say it is Mrs Ds responsibility to read these terms and conditions before 
opening a FD account with Nationwide. From the information provided to this service when 
Mrs D opened the account online, she would have been advised : If youve had a FlexDirect 
account before, its not possible to use this offer again. However, you will get the offer on a 
new joint account, as long as you have not shared a FlexDirect account with that person 
before. 
Its worth saying that if Mrs D had any doubts about previously holding a FD account with 
Nationwide, given the notices she would have seen on opening her account and the terms 
and conditions of the account referred to before, I am satisfied there was more than one 
opportunity for her to question this herself with Nationwide. While Mrs D says she had relied 
on discussions her husband had with Nationwide - that was relating to his own personal 
situation, and even if it was similar to her own, I cant agree Nationwide had given her any 
confirmation of her eligibility for the introductory interest rate. 
Mrs D says Nationwide failed to abide by their own terms and conditions as they didnt notify 
her when they amended the interest rate on her FD account after they discovered it wasnt 
eligible for the introductory rate. I can see Mrs D had regular statements after opening the 
account and evidence has been provided to this service to show Mrs D viewed these 
statements online. Like the investigator I am satisfied it would have become clear early on, 
from the amount of interest credited to the account, Mrs V wasnt getting the introductory rate here. That aside, although I take the point Mrs D makes about not being advised of the 
change of interest rate, I dont see this as a change in rates being offered but more of a case 
Nationwide correctly amending the rate to what it should have been once they discovered 
Mrs D had applied for an introductory interest rate she wasnt entitled to. So, while 
Nationwide hadnt formally advised Mrs D of this, their process doesnt allow for notifying of 
corrections and Its not my role to tell them they must, after all they were applying the correct 
rate here. 
Mrs D feels Nationwides systems should have noticed she wasnt eligible for the 
introductory rate before opening her account and not after it had been opened. I understand 
this point, but from the information I have seen, Nationwides systems dont cover this 
eventuality. Nationwide systems only alert them after an account has been opened and 
checked for eligibility - this is what happened here, as a few days following the FD account 
being opened the interest rate was amended to the correct rate. I am satisfied this was 
reasonable in the circumstances and while their systems dont allow for this eventuality, its 
not my role to tell them it must.   
What is important here is Nationwide didnt advise Mrs D she was entitled to the introductory 
rate even if she believed she was, following a conversation she had with her husband. It 
follows I dont feel Nationwide have done anything wrong here and while Mrs D will be 
disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman