DRN-1779589
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank PLC wont refund payments from his account, 
which he said he didnt make.
What happened
Mr M said he didnt make 13 payments, which left his account between 6 December 2018 
and 11 February 2019. The total value was £7,950. They were online payments and one 
faster payment made from a self-service machine. The payments were made to the same 
person.
Mr M said he didnt notice the payments until March 2019, when he had to renew his visa. 
He contacted Barclays and told it he hadnt made the payments and didnt recognise the 
payees name. He raised a fraud complaint and asked for a refund.
Barclays investigated his complaint but decided not to refund him. It said there was no 
evidence of fraudulent activity. It thought Mr M had authorised the payments because: -
the online payments were made from two devices and both were registered to his 
account
both devices were linked to Mr Ms mobile phone
both devices had been used to make genuine payments between 6 December 2018 
and 11 February 2019
one device had been used in the past to make genuine payments
his mobile banking app had been used to make the online payments
his debit card and date of birth were needed to make the faster payment from the 
self-service machine
he called Barclays to confirm that one of the disputed payments was genuine
the transactions werent typical fraud transactions because there were no attempts to 
empty the account
Mr M still has his debit card and said he hadnt shared his banking details with 
anyone else
the disputed payments were consistent with the spending pattern on his account
he would have seen the disputed payments when he logged on to online banking, yet 
he didnt complain about fraud until March 2019.
Mr M wasnt happy with Barclays decision and so he asked this service to investigate.
He told us that he only has one device  an iPhone  and no-one else has access to it. He 
admitted he called Barclays but in relation to another payment which he had made that day. 
He said he keeps his debit card in his wallet, which he keeps in his pocket during the day or 
in a bedside drawer at night. Originally, he told us that he didnt keep a written record of his 
card details or PIN, but he later said he might have written them down on a notepad, 
statement or a piece of paper in his wallet. He said he usually checked his balance at ATMs 
or online. However, as he had taken out a loan for £20,000 in January 2019, he didnt feel 
the need to check it
Mr M told us he shares his property with his uncle and friends, but he doesnt suspect them 
of making the disputed payments.
An investigator looked into his complaint, but he didnt uphold it. In summary, he felt unable 
to conclude that the payments had been made fraudulently and was persuaded they were 
most likely made and authorised by Mr M. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view, so this case has come to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
And where there is a conflict between the banks evidence and what Mr M has told us, then I 
may reach my decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened in the 
circumstances.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts, the transactions, the 
relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr M and Barclays have read the investigators 
view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. 
However, I can assure Mr M that Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence. 
Having done so, Im afraid Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons. 
Generally, Barclays can hold Mr M liable for the disputed payments if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely that he made or authorised them himself. The relevant regulations, to this 
effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that the payments were made by the two 
devices, which were registered to his account, and his card and PIN. However, the 
regulations relevant to this case say this is not, on its own, enough to enable Barclays to 
hold him liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that Mr M made them himself.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that Mr M 
authorised the transactions. I will set out my reasons.
online payments
The online payments were made from two devices. Both were registered to Mr Ms account. 
Device 1 was registered in March 2017. Its likely this was his iPhone. Device 2 was 
registered on 16 December 2018.
Mr M maintains that he has only one device, which is an iPhone. However, the online 
banking log from Barclays shows that he was using two devices. Both devices were used to 
make other payments which he agrees he made. For example, he used device 1 on 12 December 2018 and device 2 on 16 December 2018 to make payments to a Mr A. Mr M 
doesnt deny making those payments. 
Also, on 10 February 2019, Mr M made an online payment for £2,000 using device 2. On the 
same day, there was a disputed payment for £2,500, which was made using the same 
device. Mr M admitted he called Barclays to confirm that the payment for £2,000 was 
genuine, which means he was using device 2. 
This evidence shows he was using two devices, contrary to what hes told us.
Barclays online banking log also shows that the IP address used for the disputed online 
payments matched the IP address used for non-disputed payments.
Whoever made the online payments needed the login details for the devices and the 
passcode for the mobile banking app. Mr M said he hadnt shared this information with 
anyone else. He also said no-one else had access to his phone. So, on his own admission, 
he was the only person who knew the login details to both devices and the mobile banking 
app passcode. This makes it more likely he made the payments.
faster payment
The faster payment for £1,000 was made at a self-service machine. Barclays no longer has 
the reports for this transaction, but it has confirmed that Mr Ms debit card and PIN were 
used to make it. Also, because the value of the transaction exceeded £300, his date of birth 
was needed.
Again, Mr M suggests that someone else made this transaction. However, theres no clear 
evidence showing how someone else got his card and PIN. In his later conversations with 
our investigator, he said he sometimes kept his wallet in the changing room at work and that 
he might have written down his bank details in a notepad, on a statement or on a piece of 
paper in his wallet.
If true, then this provides an opportunity for someone to steal and return his debit card and to 
find out his PIN.  However, I think its unlikely this is what happened. I say this because there 
was £10, 000 in his account but the person didnt try to empty the account, either through 
cash withdrawals or spending. A fraudster is more likely to spend as much as they can as 
quickly as possible. Also, its unusual for a fraudster to return a stolen card because the risk 
of being caught is high.
The disputed payments were made to the same payee, so I think the same person made the 
online payments and the faster payment.  As Ive already explained, there is no explanation 
for how someone else knew his login details for his devices and the passcode for the mobile 
banking app.
Ive also considered that the disputed payments were consistent with the way he managed 
his account and that there were no attempts to remove more money  something I would 
expect to see with fraudulent activity. And I believe he would have seen the lower balance in 
his account when he logged on to his online banking, yet he didnt raise any concerns until 
March 2019.
Even if Mr M had kept a written note of his PIN and card details, then Im afraid he can still 
be held liable for the disputed payments. This is because the regulations say that account 
holders must take all reasonable steps to keep their personalised security credentials, such 
as their PIN and passwords, safe.  If an account holder fails with gross negligence to 
comply with the regulations, they will become liable for unauthorised payments instead of the bank.  Im afraid, keeping a written note of the PIN and passwords with the debit card is 
regarded as gross negligence, which means Barclays can refuse to refund him. 
Taking everything into account, I find, on balance, that Mr M authorised the disputed 
payments. It follows that Barclays is entitled to hold him liable for them.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Mr M, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman