DRN-3338034
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to refund money he says he 
lost as part of a scam after he didnt receive a gold coin he had purchased online.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold.
Barclays has signed up to the CRM Code, which was in force at the time Mr W paid the 
seller (Goldsilver.be) in July 2020. Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm 
should reimburse a customer who has been the victim of an Authorised Push Payment 
(APP) scam. But the CRM Code is quite explicit in that it doesnt apply to all APPs. In this 
regard, it states:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for 
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in 
some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
When considering the issue of whether a buyer/seller dispute would be classed as a civil 
dispute or a scam, its necessary to look at the intention of the supplier and whether they set 
out to deceive or defraud the customer. 
Mr W placed his order with the seller on 23 July 2020, where he was then sent tracking 
information for UPS showing his gold coin had been shipped from Belgium the same day. 
However, the package never arrived. Mr W contacted UPS, who at first couldnt locate where 
the package was. They later said it had been scanned onto their system and was going to be 
delivered in the next few days. UPS subsequently told Mr W that the package had in fact 
been delivered (which he disputes), but no signature was obtained. 
Accordingly, it appears that the package was in fact shipped by the seller, as this has been 
confirmed by the courier. And Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that would indicate the 
seller set out to deceive Mr W, which also appears to be a legitimate company. I understand 
that he has since been unable to obtain a refund from the seller, despite them allegedly 
having claimed the money back from the courier for the missing package. But while that 
undoubtedly represents poor service from the seller, it does not mean they have acted 
fraudulently, and neither can it be demonstrated that they intended to deceive him from the 
outset. So I dont think Mr W can reasonably be considered a victim of a scam in these 
circumstances.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Mr Ws claim can be considered a private civil dispute, which the 
CRM Code does not apply to. I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to him, 
but for this reason, Barclays cannot fairly or reasonably be held liable for his loss.
I also understand that Barclays provided Mr W with incorrect information about where to 
send his supporting evidence, which led to them prematurely declining his claim. Theyve 
acknowledged that they made a mistake here and have paid £75 into his account in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. I appreciate this would have been 
frustrating for Mr W at an already difficult time. But I dont consider Barclays error to have 
caused anything more than moderate inconvenience or upset, so Im satisfied that £75 is fair 
compensation in these circumstances. 
Mr W also says that the delay caused by Barclays error meant that they were unable to 
recover his money. But I dont consider this wouldve been the case (given that Mr W cannot 
be said to have been scammed in the first place) as Barclays wouldve had no basis in which 
to recover the money from the sellers bank. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman