DRN-4178232
The complaint
Ms S complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) mis-sold and 
mismanaged her personal pension plan. 
What happened
In 1994, Ms S took out a personal pension plan with Prudential (then Scottish Amicable, but 
who Ill refer to as Prudential throughout). And, in January 2023, a few months after 
receiving her annual statement, Ms S complained to Prudential that her policy had lost 10% 
of its value, equating to around £2,000. Ms S said Prudential hasnt managed her funds, as it 
hasnt attempted to mitigate the adverse market effects. But that Prudential continued to take 
annual fees, despite her also not making any contributions for years. Ms S said Prudential 
mis-sold her plan, as it marketed her fund with abnormally high commission to incentivise 
disreputable advisers who were acting illegally, resulting in her cautious risk profile being 
ignored and her plan being placed in a volatile investment. 
Prudential sent Ms S its final response letter. It said, in summary, that it isnt responsible for 
the advice Ms S was given and the sale of her plan, as this was sold by an independent 
financial adviser. And that Ms S investment return depended on performance, which the 
policy literature she would have received makes clear wasnt guaranteed. It said that the 
Annual Management Charge (AMC) is deducted even in times of poor performance and 
covers the cost of running the plan, including management, marketing and administration. 
Prudential also provided a breakdown of the commission it paid Ms S adviser in respect of 
her plan, showing initial commission of £1,373.62 with a monthly payment thereafter 
averaging just over £11 per month until early 1998. And it offered Ms S £50 in compensation 
for the few months delay it took to provide her with that information from its archive. 
Unhappy with this, Ms S brought her complaint to our Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into it and said Prudential wasnt responsible for the sale of Ms S plan. He said 
Prudential followed the agreed investment approach, which included lifestyling, and that it 
wasnt responsible for the fall in value which is outside its control. And it had suggested Ms S 
seek advice if she wasnt happy with her investments. He also said Prudential made the 
charges clear in the plan terms and conditions and Ms S statements. And that she had the 
option to move funds or transfer her policy elsewhere if she was unhappy.  
 
Ms S didnt agree. She added, in summary, that Prudential didnt properly manage the 
underlying assets of her funds but still charged fees. She said she had no financial 
awareness when she took out her plan and that Prudential hasnt sent her information over 
the years to allow her to make an informed decision. Ms S also said that existing 
policyholders couldnt switch funds due to a known limitation with Prudentials computer 
system. And that the Investigators comments about lifestyling didnt apply, as no changes 
have been made to her investments and she hasnt received any notifications of this. Ms S 
also said Prudential committed fraud, as it paid her adviser significant initial commission in 
breach of regulations in order to create new business, which has been recovered from her. 
So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking Prudential to do anything further for largely the same 
reasons as the Investigator. Ill explain why.
Ms S has said Prudential acted fraudulently, so Ill explain at the outset that it isnt the role of 
our Service to say whether it has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. And 
Id like to clarify it is the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) that is responsible for regulating 
the conduct of financial businesses and setting the rules they must follow and its their role to 
punish or fine businesses  not ours. Our role is to look at the individual circumstances of  
Ms S complaint and, taking into account relevant law, regulations and industry practice at 
the time amongst other things, decide whether Prudential has acted fairly and reasonably in 
all the circumstances.
Evidence shows that the advice Ms S was given to invest in her plan and chosen funds was 
provided by an independent financial adviser. I havent seen anything to suggest Prudential 
provided Ms S with any advice or that it was responsible for doing so. This means it isnt 
responsible for whether or not her plan and investment funds are suitable for her. Prudential 
is responsible for administering Ms S plan, providing her with clear, fair and not mis-leading 
information about it and ensuring it followed the selected investment strategies. And its for 
Ms S to monitor the performance of her investments and ensure these are suitable for her. 
When Ms S took out her plan I can see she selected that this should be 100% invested in 
Prudentials Managed fund and she also chose to apply a lifestyle strategy to it. And I think 
Ms S is likely to have been provided with information about this at the time including, for 
example, fund information, the plan term and conditions and schedule.
I recognise Ms S is disappointed with the performance of Prudentials Managed fund, but it 
doesnt necessarily follow that it has been mismanaged. While the fund aims to provide 
growth, this is by investing in a range of funds and asset types. And I havent seen anything 
to suggest the fund hasnt been managed in line with its strategy. I can see it is diversified 
and that it appears to have achieved similar returns to the sector benchmark it tracks, 
indicating this performed in line with comparable funds. Investments such as this arent 
guaranteed, the amount invested can fall as well as rise. This is the very nature of 
investments as performance is dependent on many external factors which cant be controlled 
by Prudential. And, as Ive said, Ms S and any financial adviser she had, was responsible for 
monitoring its performance and deciding whether or not this fund was suitable for her. 
Turning to the lifestyle strategy in place for Ms S plan, I think that whether or not Prudential 
followed this strategy in Ms S case is relevant given shes said it mismanaged her plan. And 
that it provides relevant context as to the drop in value Ms S is disappointed with.
Lifestyle strategies usually seek to manage investment risks as someones selected 
retirement age (SRA) approaches, by gradually and automatically making certain fund 
changes which involve moving investments out of equity type investments and into fixed 
interest investments, such as gilts and bonds. These usually exhibit lower volatility than 
equity assets over the long term. Prudential reminded Ms S in her statements that her plan 
included lifestyling. And I can see from Ms S 2019 statement that Prudential had started to 
make switches as part of this into fixed interest investments in the way the plan conditions 
set out that it would, with the aim of being mostly invested in these by her SRA. So evidence 
supports that Prudential has correctly followed the lifestyle strategy set out.It is understandable Ms S is disappointed her plan value dropped by around £2,000 in her 
2022 statement, especially when its moving towards being largely made up of fixed interest 
investments. But, while lifestyle strategies usually seek to manage investment risks, these 
dont eliminate it. In certain situations this type of investment can still sharply fall in value. 
This was the case here, as I can see the value of Ms S investment in the M&G Gilt and 
Fixed Interest Income fund in particular fell sharply in around October 2022. I understand 
this was due to unforeseeable events impacting the market at the time though, which isnt 
something Prudential could control. This fund also appears to have achieved similar returns 
to the benchmark it tracks, indicating it performed in line with comparable funds. And I think 
that Ms S was made reasonably aware of the risks involved, as Prudential explained in her 
statements that the amounts shown arent guaranteed and that the value of Ms S plan could 
go down as well as up and fall below the amounts paid in. 
Ms S said Prudential didnt send her performance information to allow her to make an 
informed decision about her funds. But I think it made enough information available for her to 
be able to do so. For example, the statements Prudential sent Ms S from at least 2018 
onwards  to her current address and which she doesnt seem to dispute receiving  clearly 
set out her investments and said that she should review whether her pension was on track. 
As well as explaining how she could access its fund guides and that she should seek 
financial advice if needed. Ms S statements also clearly said she didnt have to stay with 
Prudential and could switch funds. And I havent seen anything to suggest Ms S provided it 
with alternative investment instructions but was prevented from switching due to, for 
example, the system limitations shes mentioned. 
Ms S strongly feels that Prudential paid her adviser excessive initial commission for it to 
recommend the funds it did. I think its helpful to explain by way of background though that 
there was no regulatory limit on what could be paid to an adviser in 1994 when Ms S took 
out her plan. In 2012 the Financial Conduct Authority completed a review the commission 
commonly paid to advisers for introducing new business to a pension provider. And I 
recognise that the changes made following this highlight a lack of transparency and clear 
agreement to payment of commission prior to 2012. But its only for policies set up after 
2012 that commission can no longer be charged, as the changes had no retrospective effect.
I havent seen anything to suggest the commission was directly paid from Ms S plan by 
Prudential. While its possible Ms S indirectly paid this from it, Prudential isnt responsible for 
Ms S advisers decision to recommend the funds it did or for whether or not her adviser 
gave her sufficient information about any commission. And, in any case, the changes to 
commission didnt have retrospective effect on policies, like Ms S, that were already in 
place. So I cant fairly say Prudential has done anything wrong here. Prudential has offered 
Ms S £50 in compensation for the time it took to provide her with information on what it paid 
though. And I think this is a fair amount in the circumstances to make up for this, when 
bearing in mind it had to retrieve this from its archive due to the age of Ms S plan. 
Ms S has also said that Prudential shouldnt have continued to charge the AMC when she 
stopped making pension contributions a number of years ago. I think Prudential has 
reasonably explained though that the AMC continues to be charged regardless, as it reflects 
the continued costs involved in running Ms S plan. And I dont think Prudential has done 
anything wrong by charging this, as I can see from the plan schedule that Ms S agreed to 
the AMC when she took her plan out. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited should pay Ms S £50 in compensation, if it hasnt already. Im not asking it to do 
anything further. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman