DRN-2893986
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) dealt with 
the settlement of his hire purchase agreement with them. 
What happened
On 30 June 2020, Mr L was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. The first payment under the agreement wasnt due until 30 July 2020. On 2 July 
2020, Mr L obtained an online settlement figure from VWFS. He was told it was £15,353.16, 
which he didnt think was correct. So he phoned VWFS, who told him the correct figure was 
£15,196.38. Mr L paid this the same day.
Mr L wasnt able to get through to VWFS so, on 7 July 2020, he contacted the supplying 
dealership. And they told him the payment had been received, but not yet cleared. The 
payment cleared on 16 July 2020.
Mr L said he was worried that the payment wouldnt clear in time, so he may be charged 
interest and/or the payment that fell due on 30 July 2020 would be collected. And he couldnt 
get in touch with VWFS to discuss this. He complained to VWFS, and they apologised for 
providing the incorrect settlement figure. Mr L wasnt happy with this, and he brought his 
complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said VWFS had acknowledged their error, so he was considering the impact 
this error had on Mr L. He said that this wouldve been frustrating for Mr L, but he didnt think 
thered been any significant impact resulting from the error. And the payment cleared within 
the 10 working days VWFS had said it would. So the investigator didnt think VWFS needed 
to do anything more.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator as VWFS had admitted they hadnt treated him fairly, 
but the investigator thought they had no case to answer.  He said he tried for several days 
to speak to VWFS and if they offer a means to customers to withdraw from such an 
agreement they should staff it accordingly to meet demand. Mr L has also referred to 
comments from the supplying dealership about the service provided by VWFS.
Mr L said that he believes that the Financial Ombudsman Service should punish financial 
businesses, otherwise they will continue to provide inadequate and shoddy customer 
service. And he thinks VWFS should pay him a nominal payment of £250 to £500 for what 
happened. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr L was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
Before I address the specifics of this complaint, I believe it would be beneficial for me to 
explain how we consider complaints. The Financial Ombudsman Service is a dispute 
resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. Its not out role to tell financial 
businesses what processes and procedures they can put in place, or to punish them for any 
wrongdoing  this is the role of their regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
When considering a complaint, I look at what went wrong and what impact, if any, this had. 
What I dont consider is what might have happened if circumstances had been different. And 
my decision is based entirely on the facts of the matter. So the opinions of any unrelated 
third parties i.e. the supplying dealership; or online reviews, have no bearing on this.
The basic facts of this case arent in dispute. VWFS initially provided an incorrect settlement 
figure, and this was corrected the same day. So my decision will concentrate on what I 
consider to be a reasonable remedy in the circumstances.
The agreement allowed Mr L the right of withdrawal within the first 14 days. And, so long as 
he gave VWFS notice of his intention to withdraw, he had 30 days from giving this notice to 
repay the amount of credit, plus interest (calculated at the day the notice was given).
Ive seen a copy of the settlement figures provided to Mr L. And these state please be 
advised it takes us around 10 days from receipt of payment to close your account off, once 
this has been successfully closed we will send you a letter to advise you. VWFS also wrote 
to Mr L on 16 July 2020 confirming your finance agreement has now been cleared. This 
letter was sent 10 working days after the payment was received.
I appreciate that being given the incorrect settlement figure online wouldve been frustrating 
for Mr L. From his understanding of the agreement, he knew this was wrong, and he had to 
contact VWFS to get the correct figure. But the agreement always required him to contact 
VWFS to exercise the right of withdrawal. So I dont think he had to make an unnecessary 
call to VWFS. And all this took place on the same day, so any impact of being given the 
incorrect settlement figure wouldve been limited.
From the agreement, Mr L knew that he had 30 days to pay the settlement figure. And from 
the settlement details hed been provided with from VWFS he was also aware that the 
payment he made on 2 July 2020 would take around 10 working days to clear. So, while Mr 
L tried to contact VWFS to see if the payment had cleared, this wasnt something he needed 
to do within the first 10 working days  the period in which VWFS had told him the payment 
would take to clear.
And Mr L wasnt in any danger of being charged any additional interest or the first payment  
he had 30 days from 2 July 2020 in which to make the settlement payment, and the 
clearance date of the payment hed made was two weeks before the first payment fell due.
Because of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, VWFS were experiencing very high call 
volumes, at a time when government work from home guidelines were in place. This 
wouldve impacted VWFS ability to answer calls as quickly as usual and wouldve led to 
customers having to wait longer than usual. While I appreciate how frustrating this wouldve been, I dont think that VWFS did anything 
wrong by being faced with these unprecedented circumstances, something that was entirely 
outside of their control. And I dont think its reasonable to expect them to have dedicated 
phone lines for each aspect of their agreement, especially given the circumstances 
described above.
So, given the above, Im satisfied that the apology made by VWFS was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. And I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman