DRN-4228399
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) has rejected a claim for the 
treatment of her pet dog on the ground that the treatment was for a condition that was pre-
existing at commencement of her policy. 
What happened
Mrs M acquired her pet dog, who Ill refer to as D, from a charity on 31 December 2021. 
She insured him with HDI on 24 January 2022. 
Between 30 May 2022 and 29 July 2022 D was treated for a lump on his neck. This was 
diagnosed as a neck mass and was removed. Mrs M submitted a claim to HDI for the cost of 
this treatment.
HDI rejected Mrs Ms claim. On receiving her claim, it reviewed Ds veterinary records. It 
noted in Ds notes the following entry on 30 May 2022:
 Lump back of neck did started under skin now developing on top. A BIOP since new 
year from [charity]. Noticed a lump when they got him, small, raised lump at the time has 
changed shape and texture and size
HDI also referred to the veterinary notes received from the charity. These record that D was 
examined on 23 December 2021. The notes make no reference to any lump noticed on Ds 
neck although a pea sized mass had been noticed earlier that month in his anal area which 
had significantly improved.
HDI relies upon the following term of Mrs Ms policy:
What is not covered? 
'Any illness arising prior to or within the first 14 days of the inception date of the insurance 
or a pre-existing condition.
A pre-existing condition is defined as:
Any illness or injury or complication directly resulting from an injury or illness, whether 
diagnosed or undiagnosed that has been identified or investigated by a vet or is otherwise 
known to you prior to the start of the insurance or within the first 14 days of the policy for 
illness or 48 hours in the case of an injury.
The Insurance Product Information Document states under What is not insured the 
following:
Pre-existing conditions that have received treatment or have shown signs or symptoms 
before your policy started.
Any accident, Injury or illness displaying clinical signs before the commencement date.
Mrs M says that the vets notes incorrectly record the conversation she had with the vet in 
recording Noticed a lump when they got him (D). She says this should read ..since they 
got him. She says she first noticed Ds lump in March 2022. 
As Mrs M wasnt happy with HDIs rejection of her claim which is causing her considerable 
financial difficulty and stress, she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered that the absence of any mention by the charitys vet of a lump 
on Ds neck in December 2021, and Mrs Ms account that the lump didnt appear until March 
2022, to be persuasive. She therefore didnt consider that it was fair for HDI to treat it as a 
pre-existing condition.
In response to our investigators view, HDI maintains that the lump was first noticed when 
Mrs M got D and not three months later. It also stated that:
 The only unusual fact is that this lump was not mentioned in the medical history from 
the day they got the dog, however Id argue as this was small at the time perhaps this 
was not noticed, especially with the type of coat that breed has.
As HDI doesnt agree with our investigators view, Mrs Ms complaint has been referred to 
me as an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
What is at issue in this case is when the lump on Ds neck was first noticed. If HDI is to 
successfully reject Mrs Ms claim it has to provide persuasive evidence that the lump was a 
pre-existing condition  one that has been identified or investigated by a vet or is otherwise 
known to you prior to the start of the insurance or within the first 14 days of the policy.
The fact that no lump was mentioned by the charitys vet following Ds examination on 23 
December 2021 strongly suggests that no lump was noticed, if one then existed. Other 
lumps had previously been noticed, but not on his neck. So there was no investigation. It 
follows that there was no treatment. In its response to our investigators view, from which Ive 
quoted above, HDI says that it might not have been noticed at that time because it was so 
small and especially because of Ds coat. Mrs M has said she didnt notice a lump until 
March 2022.
As the exclusion upon which HDI relies to reject Mrs Ms claim requires identification or 
knowledge of the lumps existence prior to the start of the policy or within the first 14 days 
thereafter whether or not a diagnosis has been made, in the absence of any evidence to 
support such identification or knowledge, that rejection cannot be fair. I dont consider that 
what Ds vet recorded, and upon which HDI relies  - Noticed a lump when they got him - 
which Mrs M disputes as an accurate record of what she said, is sufficiently strong evidence 
to rebut what I consider to be the stronger evidence from the record of Ds examination on 
23 December 2021. 
Im therefore going to require HDI to settle Mrs Ms claim with interest.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mrs Ms claim.
I require HDI Global Specialty SE:
1. to settle Mrs Ms claim subject to any other terms and condition of her policy. 
2. to pay interest on the sum so paid at the simple rate of 8% from the date she made 
her claim until payment is made to her.
If HDI Global Specialty SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mrs M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman