DRN-3340722
The complaint
The executor of the estate of Mrs R complains that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited 
(Aviva) mis-sold her an equity release  or lifetime - mortgage in 2007. 
Mr R is the executor of the estate and is represented by solicitors in this complaint. For ease, 
Ill refer to Mr R throughout the decision. 
What happened
In 2007, Mrs R took out a lifetime mortgage of £30,000. Interest was charged at a rate of 
6.60% per year. 
Following Mrs Rs passing in 2021, the executor made a complaint to Aviva, represented by 
solicitors. 
They complain, in summary, that:
The mortgage was not suitable for her needs and circumstances
The advice was generic, lacked detail and was not sufficiently personal to Mrs R
Aviva failed to take account of Mrs Rs age and vulnerability when recommending the 
mortgage
Mrs R was not adequately advised of the costs and long-term consequences of 
releasing such a large amount of equity from her property
Aviva responded to the complaint. It didnt uphold it and so the solicitors referred it to this 
service.
Our investigator considered the matter but didnt think it should be upheld. He said that the 
paperwork from the time indicated that she had a need for the borrowing and that there was 
nothing to show Mrs R was vulnerable  her age, in itself, wouldnt indicate that  and she 
had independent legal advice.
Mr R didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to learn of the recent passing of Mrs R. I can appreciate that this must have 
been a very difficult time for Mr R and his family. 
The Financial Conduct Authority and the Equity Release Council (formerly the Safe Home 
Income Plan  or SHIP) are aware that there is potential, years down the line, for adult 
children to find out their parents had taken out an equity release mortgage.
These scenarios  and the fact that some equity release mortgages are sold to elderly 
customers  is why this type of mortgage is (and always has been) subject to a robust and 
rigorous sales process, with the need for borrowers to have advice from a financial adviser, 
as well as from an independent solicitor. 
Mrs R was given independent legal advice from a solicitor of her choice. The solicitor was 
acting for Mrs R and the advice should have been given with her best interests at heart. Its 
important to note that Aviva isnt directly responsible for the advice the solicitor provided to 
Mrs R. 
Ive considered the documentation from the time. The information gathering exercise 
identified that there were specific financial objectives that Mrs R wished to achieve. It was 
recorded that she wished to have more disposable income by removing her payments to her 
interest only mortgage and that the equity release would provide some money for savings, 
which she didnt have at the time. 
The contemporaneous documents also reflect that Mrs R wished to visit family overseas but 
was currently unable to save for this. It was also recorded that she had no wish to move, 
having lived in the property for over 30 years. Ive thought about all of this when considering 
whether the mortgage was mis-sold. 
Mr Rs solicitors have said that Aviva incorrectly advised Mrs R to replace her existing 
interest only mortgage with a lifetime mortgage. I can understand the point that the lack of a 
repayment method for the interest only mortgage turned out not to be an issue as sadly 
Mrs R passed away prior to what would have been the end of the term of that mortgage. The 
documents reflect that this was considered, but Mrs R wished to take the lifetime mortgage 
mainly to provide her with more disposable income by removing these mortgage payments. 
It was recorded:
your current mortgage has over 17 years before expiry and you feel that you no 
longer want the burden of having to pay £232 per month to service this mortgage, 
especially as it is on an interest only basis and you have no means of repaying the 
capital. You want to free up the additional income to improve your quality of life in 
retirement and enable you to pursue some of your aspirations.
And it was recorded that other mortgage options were discussed: 
we considered an ordinary mortgage rather than a lifetime mortgage, but this was 
discounted because you did not want to replace one conventional mortgage with 
another. Although your current mortgage is interest only you felt you could not reduce 
your level of income below £174 to pay towards a repayment mortgage.
The documents also reflect that Mrs R was made aware that an equity release mortgage 
may be more expensive in the long run but wished to proceed. 
The documents record Mrs Rs attitude to this and potential consequences on her estate 
following discussions:
You think house prices will continue to rise and you want to take some of the equity 
now. You understand that by doing so, any possible future inheritance will be eroded 
and there is no guarantee that there will be anything left.And:
this lifetime mortgage will affect the residual value of your estate on death and the 
amount that could be passed on to your beneficiaries. You have confirmed that you 
have already discussed your current intentions with those concerned and you are 
happy to proceed. You did not wish to guarantee a particular amount would be left as 
a bequest on death. 
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded that Aviva failed to consider Mrs Rs 
financial circumstances and personal needs as Mr Rs solicitors say. And Im satisfied that 
an equity release was likely the only viable option for Mrs R given her needs and 
circumstances recorded at the time. 
The mortgage Aviva recommended and then provided for Mrs R raised the money shed 
asked for, removed the payments to her interest only mortgage and allowed her to remain in 
the property. 
Mr Rs solicitors have suggested that Mrs R was vulnerable at the time and so the mortgage 
should not have been sold to her. Having considered the evidence available, Im not 
persuaded this was the case. 
The documents show that Mrs R went through a detailed questionnaire with Avivas adviser. 
There is no suggestion in the documentation that Mrs R was particularly vulnerable, which 
prevented her from understanding what she was doing, or that she shouldnt have been 
allowed to make her own decisions about her own property.
And its common for these types of mortgages  being generally only available to borrowers 
over a certain age  to be taken by individuals of a similar age that Mrs R was at the time. 
This is why, as I have explained, there is a robust process when these are taken out and I 
dont consider her age a vulnerability in itself here. She also had the option to have a family 
member present, but chose not to. 
Mrs R had at least two meetings with the adviser and was issued with various documents at 
the time which explained the contract she was entering into, and how the interest would roll-
up.
She received independent legal advice and could have withdrawn from the transaction at 
any time. Aviva was entitled to rely on the information Mrs R gave, and that showed that she 
had a need to borrow money as she didnt have sufficient savings or other means to meet 
her wants and needs. The reasons Mrs R gave Aviva for wanting the money were entirely 
plausible as was how she wanted to spend her spare income
I can understand the executor being unhappy about Mrs Rs estate being smaller than it 
would have been, but for the Aviva mortgage. However, Ive seen nothing that leads me to 
conclude the mortgage was mis-sold or unsuitable for Mrs R based on her circumstances 
and needs at the time of the sale and so I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Camilla FinniganOmbudsman