DRN-1661777
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the way that Zurich Insurance PLC dealt with their home 
insurance claim for water damage to their home. This follows on from a previous complaint 
about the same claim
 What happened
Mr and Mrs C made their claim to Zurich on 17 August 2018. They had a number of issues 
about the way the claim was dealt with. In November 2018 Zurich reviewed the claim and 
paid compensation for various matters. I issued a final decision saying the compensation 
paid to that date was satisfactory.
The claim continued and Mr and Mrs C had further complaints about the way it was run, 
which they raised with Zurich in December 2018. As those complaints were raised with us at 
the same time as their first complaint, they had to be passed back to Zurich for it to answer 
the various issues. Mr and Mrs C raised additional complaints in May 2019. In its response 
Zurich offered a further £500 compensation.
On review by this service our investigator said that the £500 offered was reasonable. Mr and 
Mrs C didnt agree, pointing out in particular that they were concerned about the whole way 
the case was managed and what might have happened had they not pointed out health and 
safety issues.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should emphasise that Im not considering the whole claim here. Ther more serious issues 
that arose in their first complaint were dealt with then, and Zurich resolved them. This 
decision only takes account of those issues raised after November 2018.
heaters
Mr C says they were left without heating in the winter months and were promised heaters 
which didnt appear. The heaters were supplied on request. I appreciate that Mr C didnt feel 
he should have had to keep chasing in light of his previous experience, but I do think this 
was just an oversight by the contractors, which could have been easily remedied.
schedule
Mr and Mrs C complain that the schedule wasnt changed to reflect the fact that the radiator 
in the hall needed removing before plastering the wall leading to a delay while the plumber 
checked this out. Zurich pointed out the this was resolved in a quick phone call but 
nevertheless agreed that this added some frustration.
delays 
Three days was allowed to compete the plastering. It took twelve days and thirteen days of 
decorating. Mr and Mrs C had to endure the stress of the employee ringing out to say there 
was no way the work could be completed in the time allowed. Zurich says this was 
unforeseen due to illness over the Christmas period. I can see that this was frustrating and 
inconvenient for Mr and Mrs C.
oversight 
Mr and Mrs C ware concerned that the same project manager who they were previously 
unhappy with remained and that he didnt chase up the issues with the work overrunning. 
Zurich has explained that the manager had to stay as any new appointment would have 
added to the delays. It says the delays were out of his control. I can understand Mr and Mrs 
Cs unhappiness and that they were anxious get things moving when the project manager 
seemed to have no sense of urgency. I have taken this into account in considering the 
compensation offered. I think Zurichs response concerning retaining the manager was 
reasonable.
sockets and switches
Mr and Mrs C were concerned that after the plastering these were left hanging off the wall 
with wires exposed. Zurich apologised for this. Mr and Mrs C dont think this was taken 
seriously nor were their concerns as to what might have happened. I can understand that 
and clearly the sockets and switches shouldnt have been left exposed. However as our 
investigator has advised we cant award compensation for what might have happened. The 
same applies to any of their concerns about the work and what problems might arise with 
that in the future.
bedroom carpet
The fitting of this was delayed by over a month, due to a failure by the contractors to order it. 
As a result their son had to sleep on the floor, the bedroom furniture not being able to be put 
in place. I can understand that this was upsetting.
mould appearing
In March 2019 mould began to appear on the walls. This was found to be due to the failure 
to put a protective coat on. There was a delay in arranging the completion of these works. 
Mr C had to ring around to find out what was happening. Zurich apologised for the lack of 
communication. This was resolved, but nevertheless I can understand the frustration this 
caused.
compensation
Ive considered this and the frustration and anxiety these further issues caused. But bearing 
in mind that Im only considering matters complained about after November 2018, I think the 
compensation offered was fair and reasonable. This take into account awards we have made in similar cases. If Mr and Mrs C havent received the compensation (which I think 
they turned down), they should get in touch with Zurich directly.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman