DRN-3418632
The complaint
Mr S complains that MetLife Europe d.a.c. (MetLife) made an error in the payment of tax-free 
cash from his pension plan which resulted in penalty tax charges. He would like 
compensation for the additional tax costs incurred.
What happened
Mr S is being assisted in his complaint by his IFA, but for ease, unless necessary for clarity, I 
will just refer to Mr S in this decision. 
Mr S took benefits from his personal pension plan with MetLife in June 2014 by income 
drawdown. MetLife paid him a tax-free lump sum of around £151,467. In March 2017 MetLife 
wrote to him saying it had made an error and had overpaid the tax-free cash by £57,899. It 
said if he didnt repay this, it would have to inform HMRC that an unauthorised payment had 
been made which would incur a 40% tax penalty payable by Mr S. 
Mr S said he would need three months to make the repayment. MetLife agreed and asked 
him to sign an agreement about this, which wasnt returned. MetLife issued a reminder and 
told the IFA it would need to notify HMRC. 
Mr S complained to MetLife but says it didnt provide a final response. And he contacted 
HMRC but didnt get a response until February 2018. HMRC said no appeal was possible 
and with interest and penalties the tax charge now due was £25,195.76. Mr S decided to pay 
this. He said it wasnt fair that MetLifes error had cost him more than paying income tax on 
drawing the same net amount from the pension over the three-year period. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it, and she upheld it in 
part. 
Our investigator said as MetLife accepted it made an error the issue was whether it was 
responsible for Mr Ss tax liability. MetLife said any penalties levied by HMRC were a direct 
result of Mr S not repaying the overpayment. It said this was a conscious decision on his 
part, in the belief that, if he referred his complaint to our service, he would only have to pay 
what tax would have been due on the same amount of income, rather than additional penalty 
charges. 
Our investigator said the error didnt mean Mr S was entitled to keep the overpayment and 
MetLife was required to notify HMRC if it wasnt repaid. She said Mr S had given limited 
information as to why he was unable to repay the money back over the three months hed 
requested. But if hed responded to MetLife then, more time might have been given for him 
to make a repayment and mitigate his loss.
So, she didnt think MetLife was responsible for the tax charges as these were only incurred 
because the overpayment wasnt refunded. And as the overpayment was significant Mr S 
should have been aware of the problem sooner. A she said it was likely he would have 
received statements and projections about his pension fund and the amount of tax-free cash 
payable. But she thought the error had caused Mr S distress and he should be paid £500 in 
compensation.  
Mr S disagreed. He said hed only recently transferred another pension to MetLife and hadnt 
received statements or projections. He said hed used most of the tax-free cash to pay off his 
mortgage and to help his children onto the property ladder. As he was retired, he could only 
raise £57,899 from his pension, requiring around £96,500 to be withdrawn to raise the 
amount needed after tax. Whereas the tax penalty on the overpayment was £23,159, which 
he had been able to raise. 
Mr S said if hed drawn the same amount as income from the plan over the three years this 
would have been taxed at 20%. Meaning the error had cost an additional £11,579 in tax, 
interest, and penalties. He said he was only seeking compensation on this extra amount, not 
the entire tax penalty.
As Mr S doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint in part but to be clear to Mr S I dont think 
MetLife is liable for the additional tax costs that have been incurred.
MetLife did make an error in the payment of the benefits, significantly overpaying the tax-free 
cash allowable. If not corrected, this results in an unauthorised payment charge from HMRC, 
payable by Mr S. 
Our service usually takes the view that if someone has been incorrectly paid money, they 
werent entitled to, it isnt fair that they be allowed to keep it, even if they were unaware of 
the error being made. But in some circumstances, it might be reasonable that adjustments 
be made for any tax consequences caused or financial difficulties that might result if 
someone was asked to make a repayment, particularly if this were a long time after the error 
occurred. 
Mr S argues it is unfair he should suffer additional costs compared to drawing the same net 
sum as income over the period before MetLife notified him of the error. I dont know whether 
he would have drawn more income if the error hadnt been made, but he certainly could 
have done so. And I thought it was unusual for valuations and projections not to be provided 
before his benefits were paid. Which might mean Mr S might not have been unaware of the 
error, which wasnt notified until quite a long time later. So, his argument about excess tax 
costs might be reasonable. And it didnt seem surprising that he wasnt able to immediately 
make repayment, as its not unusual for people to use pension benefits to pay off mortgages 
and to make gifts to their children. 
However, I thought there were some gaps in the evidence on MetLifes file, such as the 
application form or other instruction for benefits to be taken. So, I asked both Mr S and 
MetLife for further details about this. 
Mr Ss IFA provided a copy of a letter it had sent to MetLife on 16 June 2014 forwarding a 
completed application to draw benefits. This requested that all remaining tax-free cash be 
paid along with a quarterly income. The letter also said it understood that MetLife was 
currently unable to generate illustrations and it looked forward to receiving one, once 
systems have been updated. The IFA also provided a letter from MetLife to Mr S dated 24 December 2014. This 
confirmed the details, provided an illustration and a benefit crystallisation certificate for the 
tax-free cash taken on 24 June 2014. The letter apologised for the delay in issuing this 
information.
MetLife also provided further evidence. It confirmed that it hadnt been able to provide an 
illustration at the time due to systems being updated. It said it had records of generating the 
confirmation letter twice. Including immediately after the payment was made, but it said it 
couldnt be certain this first letter had been sent out. 
However, MetLife also said that on the same day the IFA submitted the request for benefits 
to be paid it had also separately requested the split between the crystallised and 
uncrystallised funds. MetLife replied by email the next day. It confirmed, incorrectly, the splits 
were £146,497.95 and £606,692.09 respectively. It said that it appeared neither it nor the 
IFA had spotted the error. 
It seems there were several errors here, with MetLife overstating the total value of the 
pension fund by around £146,497.95. And it considerably overstated the value of the 
uncrystallised fund that could be used to provide tax-free cash. And it proceeded to pay tax-
free cash based on this error. 
I thought that this information was important given that the IFA had been involved in 
arranging both the retirement benefits and the transfer to MetLife only a short time before. 
As it was highly likely that valuations would have been considered in doing this. So, I asked 
both Mr S and his IFA for comments about this information. 
The IFA said it cannot find the correspondence from the 17th June  this being MetLifes 
reply to its own email confirming incorrect values. It said no further correspondence was 
received until 24 December 2014, being the confirmation details. And on 5 January 2015 the 
IFA had checked values to:
make sure the income extraction had been paid in line with what was expected.
So, Mr S and his IFAs position remains that they were unaware of the error until MetLife 
wrote in March 2017. Ive considered this and I think the evidence presented is incomplete. 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
So, Ive considered carefully whether the error should have been noticed and queried after 
MetLife provided incorrect values on 17 June 2014 and significantly overpaid tax-free cash a 
few days later. And I think Mr S and the IFA should have been aware of this.
It hasnt been confirmed whether Mr S was being advised about drawing his benefits, 
although I suspect that he was. He took benefits only around two months after arranging a 
relatively large transfer of another plan into the MetLife arrangement. Given the close 
proximity of the transfer and the taking of benefits I think its likely that the transfer was made 
to facilitate benefits being taken. The transfer application form indicates that both initial and 
ongoing adviser charge was to be paid to the IFA, strongly suggesting advice was being 
provided. And there would be no need for the IFA to request a benefit illustration be sent 
when available, or to be checking on what income had been paid in January 2015, if it wasnt 
acting in an advisory capacity. So, Id expect that the values of the existing MetLife pension, the plan to be transferred and 
the benefits that could be provided would have been considered in detail before the transfer 
was made. As benefits were taken just two months later, I think its likely that the 
approximate value at the time of drawing benefits would have been known to both Mr S and 
his IFA, including the split between crystallised and uncrystallised fund. Its clear from the 
IFAs letter of 16 June 2014 that it was aware that Mr S had already received some tax-free 
cash from this arrangement, meaning the amount payable would be less than 25% of the 
fund value.
I think the email MetLife sent was most likely received. Even if it wasnt or was overlooked, 
Id still expect the IFA would check details of when and what payment that had been made 
with MetLife and or Mr S. Especially so, if no information or illustration had been provided 
beforehand and no actual confirmation was provided until six months later. 
And the error made by MetLife was so large that the uncrystallised fund would have needed 
to be around £230,000 more than it actually was for the tax-free cash payment made to have 
been correct. That would have required a very large, and therefore highly unlikely, increase 
in value to have been achieved in just two months following the transfer for there not to have 
been a mistake.
So, from the evidence available and on the balance of probability, I think that Mr S and his 
IFA would have been aware that a significant overpayment had been made, which he wasnt 
entitled to. Even if Mr S and his IFA were not immediately aware of this, then I think they 
certainly should have been by December 2014, when MetLife did provide full details of the 
payment. And Id expect the IFA to be aware of the potentially adverse tax consequences of 
any overpayment of tax-free cash, if not repaid. 
It may be the case that had Mr S acted then, some action could have been taken to mitigate 
at least some of the tax penalty. Either by reimbursing the overpayment or treating some of it 
as income and taxing it accordingly. But that didnt happen and whilst I appreciate the issues 
around raising the necessary funds, when MetLife realised the error, he did have the option 
of reimbursing the overpayment to avoid the unauthorised payment charge, but he decided 
against that. 
So, taking everything together whilst MetLife made an error, I dont think it is reasonable to 
hold it responsible for the adverse taxation consequences of this. Because I think Mr S 
should have been reasonably aware an overpayment had been made, particularly given the 
significant sum involved and he could have taken action to mitigate the tax consequences of 
this. 
But at the same time, I do think what has happened Mr S has suffered distress and 
inconvenience. And I think this would still be the case even if hed responded to the error 
promptly, so I am upholding his complaint in part. 
Putting things right
As I think Mr S has been caused some distress and inconvenience I think it is fair that he be 
compensated for this. I think its fair that MetLife should pay him £500 in compensation for 
this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part against MetLife Europe d.a.c.I direct MetLife Europe d.a.c. to pay Mr S £500 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman