DRN-4221065
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy about the way in which Wise Payments Limited trading as Wise (Wise) 
handled his account  in particular the closure of his account without providing him with a 
reason. 
What happened
Mr R held an account with Wise. Mr R had been using the account to send money to a 
foreign bank account since 2018. When Mr R tried to send funds through Wise in December 
2022 he got a notification the account was not supported. Mr R contacted Wise about this. 
Wise said it couldnt process payments to the account Mr R provided it with and couldnt 
provide a reason why. 
Mr R complained to Wise about this and the service he received. Wise didnt uphold Mr Rs 
complaint and provided a response on 9 March 2023. It explained that its internal team had 
deactivated Mr Rs account and he was informed about this by email. It says it tries to make 
its services available as much as it can, but sometimes due to local regulations, security 
reasons, technical issues or other factors beyond its control it may suspend access to its 
services which is in line with 22.1 of its terms and conditions. 
It can also close accounts without notice and doesnt need to disclose the reason behind his 
account deactivation. Wise apologised for the delay in providing a final response to Mr Ms 
complaint and offered £100 compensation. 
Mr R was unhappy with this so brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Rs concerns and reached the conclusion that Wise 
was under no obligation to continue offering an account to a customer if it doesnt wish to do 
so  this is a commercial decision that its entitled to take. And they thought that the £100 
compensation was fair for not responding to Mr Rs complaint in the timescales it said it 
would. 
Mr R disagreed, he says he has been the victim of fraud and wants to know if Wise 
discriminated against him because of this and blocked and ended his account. Mr R wants to 
be compensated £400 for the hardship he says hes suffered due to Wises actions and has 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Mr R has experienced and see if Wise has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr R back in the position he wouldve been 
in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award compensation that I think is fair and 
reasonable.
As has already been explained by our adjudicator, as a general rule Wise isnt obliged to 
continue offering an account to a customer if it doesnt want to  providing payment transfer 
services and facilities and to who is a commercial decision and not something for me to get 
involved with.
That being said it wouldnt be fair for Wise to suspend or close Mr Rs account outside the 
terms and conditions of the account or without valid reason.
Under 25.2 of The terms and conditions of the account Wise is able to suspend or close an 
account without notice if:
(a) you breach any provision of this Agreement or documents referred to in
this Agreement;
(b) we are requested or directed to do so by any competent court of law,
government authority, public agency, or law enforcement agency;
(c) we have reason to believe you are in breach of any applicable law or
regulation; or
(d) we have reason to believe you are involved in any fraudulent activity,
money laundering, terrorism financing or other criminal or illegal activity
So Im satisfied providing Wise believes Mr Rs account activity falls into one of these 
categories it was entitled to close Mr Rs account in line with the terms and conditions and 
that no error or mistake has been made. 
I appreciate that this has caused some distress to Mr R as finding another payment service 
provider to continue making the transactions he needs to make will be an inconvenience and 
Mr R would like to know why Wise made the decision to close his account. But Wise arent 
obliged to keep offering services to customers or provide a reason for the commercial 
decisions it takes, just as Mr R wouldnt be expected to say why he chose a particular 
business to transact with. 
But that said Im satisfied from the information Ive seen that Wises decision to close Mr Rs 
account wasnt unreasonable and covered under its terms and conditions and the reason it 
wont disclose why the decision has been taken to close his account is due to the regulations 
surrounding this  rather than the discrimination Mr R alleges. So, I dont think it has done 
anything wrong or treated Mr R unfairly and it follows that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R is also unhappy at the service he received from Wise regarding this  in particular the 
length of time it took Wise to respond to his complaint. Wise has acknowledged it failed to 
respond within acceptable timeframes, apologised and offered Mr R £100 compensation for 
this. Which I think is a fair offer as I havent seen enough to suggest that Mr R has suffered 
detriment which I think justifies compensation above this amount. If Mr R would like to now 
accept this offer, he should get in contact with Wise and provide his bank details.
So it follows that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman