DRN-4228446
The complaint
Mr N complains AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly removed his subsidence cover and declined 
his claim. 
What happened
In 2000 Mr N purchased a property. A pre-purchase report noted some distortion and 
cracking  including historic cracking between a bay window and main wall. But it found no 
evidence of obvious recent or progressive movement. 
Around 2014 Mr N let out the property and moved abroad. In March 2020, whilst still living 
abroad, Mr N took out an AXA commercial and residential landlords property insurance 
policy. This didnt include subsidence cover. But Mr N added it when the policy renewed in 
March 2021. 
Mr N says around Easter 2021 his tenant informed that gaps had formed in the bay window 
area. In July 2021 Mr N arranged a survey to assess the property. It found subsidence to be 
the likely cause. Later that year Mr N made a subsidence claim against his AXA policy. But 
the insurer declined it and avoided (treating it as though had never existed) the subsidence 
part of his cover. 
AXA felt Mr N had failed to disclose the property had ongoing subsidence issues when 
adding that cover. AXA said if he had declared that information it would still have offered him 
insurance  but it wouldnt have included subsidence cover. 
AXA responded to Mr Ns complaint in May 2022. It said the damage pre-existed the renewal 
when subsidence cover was added to his policy. So it continued to decline the claim. AXA 
paid Mr N £250 compensation to apologise for avoidable delays.  He wasnt satisfied so 
came to this service. He wants AXA to accept his claim and reimburse the costs of his 
survey. 
Our investigator said AXA hadnt acted fairly by avoiding the subsidence cover. She wasnt 
persuaded Mr N had failed to make a fair presentation of the risk when taking out the cover 
in March 2021. She didnt agree he should have been aware the property was suffering with 
subsidence. So she recommended AXA accept the subsidence claim. AXA didnt accept that 
outcome. It said the timeline suggested Mr N was aware of worsening damage when he 
added the subsidence cover. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. Its reasoning forms part of this final decision, so Ive copied it 
in below. In it I explained why I didnt intend to require AXA to reinstate the subsidence 
cover, consider the claim or to do anything differently. I also invited Mr N and AXA to provide 
anything they would like me to consider before issuing this final decision. 
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr N and AXA have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to 
be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have taken into 
account everything provided.
Ive considered if AXAs decision to avoid the policy and refuse any claims was
fair and reasonable  and in line with the relevant legislation. In particular Ive 
considered the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act). Having done so, I think it was. So I 
dont intend to require AXA to reinstate the subsidence cover, consider the claim or 
to do anything differently.
When Mr N took out the policy (adding subsidence cover) in 2021 he had a duty  
under the Act  to make a fair presentation of the risk. This means it was his 
responsibility to disclose everything he knows, or ought to know, that would influence 
the judgement of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms.
  
A broker was acting as an agent for Mr N. It provided information to AXA, on Mr Ns 
behalf, when arranging the cover. AXA feels the duty was breached when existing 
subsidence damage wasnt disclosed. 
AXA says the renewal was arranged, by the broker, through its online portal. Its 
shown questions the broker answered. The first relevant one is Do you require cover 
for subsidence, landslip and heave?. AXA says as Yes was chosen a further 
question will have been asked  Has the property or any adjacent property ever 
suffered from, or does it show any visible signs of damage from subsidence, landslip 
or heave?. Im satisfied AXA wanted to know about subsidence  or signs of it. 
AXAs also shown that a guidance box was presented. This includes the text  
Common signs of these conditions are cracks appearing in interior walls, ceilings or 
external masonry.
It seems most likely that at that point the property was suffering from and showing 
visible signs of damage from subsidence. Mr Ns July 2021 survey report notes 
concern at the appearance of significant cracking to the bay window. It concludes this 
is likely the result of ongoing structural movement. The report suspects the cause to 
be subsidence resulting from drainage issues. It goes on to note the propertys tenant 
describing the external cracking as having very noticeably worsened during the 
previous 12 months. 
So considering the timescale Im satisfied an answer of No to the above question 
was incorrect. But I need to decide if AXAs conclusion that the fair presentation duty 
was breached. To do that I need to consider if there was a failure by Mr N to disclose 
everything he knew or ought to have known. 
AXA says the July 2021 survey shows Mr N was aware of the cracking getting worse 
over the prior 12 months prior. It suggests it may have been this that prompted him to 
add subsidence cover in March 2021. However, it was the tenant that reported the 
cracking having worsened during that period  not Mr N. So this doesnt confirm he 
knew about subsidence or signs of it.
Mr N says he wasnt aware of the gaps forming around the bay window until the 
tenant informed him by telephone around Easter 2021 (early April). Considering the 
relatively short time between the subsidence cover being added, Mr N 
commissioning a survey and the claim I can understand AXAs concern. But overall Im not currently persuaded theres enough for AXA to fairly say Mr N did 
know of visible signs of subsidence  including cracking etc  when adding the 
subsidence cover. But Mr N was required to disclose not only material circumstances 
that he did know  but also those that he ought to know. The Act says Mr N ought to 
know what should reasonably have been revealed by a reasonable search of 
information available to him.
As far as Im aware Mr N took out the cover whilst abroad. He lives many thousands 
of miles away from the property. So it seems unlikely he inspected the condition of 
the property frequently. He hasnt said that someone else was doing this for him or 
providing regular condition reports. Neither has he reported the property being 
inspected, by himself or others, in the period before taking out the cover in March 
2021.   
So as far as Im aware Mr N responded to the question about subsidence without any 
recent knowledge, personal or otherwise, of its condition. In those circumstances it 
would have been reasonable for him to ask the tenant about the condition of the 
property. And as set out above the tenant was aware of the developing cracks and 
other more recent visible signs of subsidence. As the tenant was the one to have 
notified him of the problem, a short while after the policy renewal, it seems likely he 
would have told Mr N about the developing problem.   
So it seems fair to say Mr N ought to have known about the external cracks and other 
visible signs of subsidence damage  and therefore for the broker to have passed 
that information on to AXA. I accept the tenant may not have been able to diagnose 
subsidence as the cause. But Mr N would have been aware of the cracks and so the 
possibility of subsidence. 
Mr N was provided with a statement of fact. This explains he needs to make a fair 
presentation of the risk. It warns of the possible consequences of not doing so. It 
asks him to check the information included in the document is correct. It includes a 
statement, based on the brokers submission, that the property has not suffered from 
or is showing visible signs of, subsidence. As Ive set out above, I feel its fair to say 
he ought to have known that information wasnt, or was potentially, incorrect. So its 
reasonable to say when the broker, and Mr N, failed to correct it that he breached his 
duty to provide a fair presentation of the risk. 
But for AXA to take any action, like avoiding the subsidence cover, the Act requires it 
to show the breach was a qualifying one. Essentially it needs to show that if the 
correct information was provided it would have done something differently - for 
example not offered cover at all or only done so on different terms.
AXAs provided part of its underwriting criteria. Having seen that Im satisfied it would 
have offered insurance, but without subsidence cover, if it had been told the property 
has suffered from or showed visible signs of damage from subsidence. So I intend to 
find AXA acted fairly, and in line with the Act, when it avoided the subsidence cover 
and declined Mr Ns claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr N was understandably disappointed with 
it. His response focused on my finding that it would have been reasonable for him to have 
asked his tenant about the condition of the property. 
Mr N says that there had been no subsidence issues or concerns (apart from references in 
the 2000 pe-purchase survey) in 21 years of ownership. So he doesnt accept he, as a 
matter of law, ought to have asked his tenant about subsidence. 
However I said, in the circumstances (including a lack of recent personal or professional 
inspections of the condition of the property), it would have been reasonable for Mr N to have 
asked his tenant about the condition of the property. 
By that I meant the general or overall condition of his property he was intending to insure  
and that he was answering related questions about. I didnt say he should have asked about 
subsidence specifically. 
Im still persuaded it would have been reasonable for Mr N have enquired about the 
condition of his property before taking out insurance for it. After all he was required to 
present a fair presentation of the risk the insurer was considering taking on. And I still think 
its likely, if he had, that his tenant would have explained about the developing cracks. 
Ultimately, Im still satisfied Mr N failed to provide a fair presentation of the risk. So my 
decision is AXA acted fairly, and in line with the Act, when it avoided the subsidence cover 
and declined his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require AXA Insurance UK Plc to reinstate Mr Ns 
subsidence cover, consider his claim or to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman