DRN-4309727
The complaint
Mrs P says HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
Mrs P took out three loans from HSBC. The first on 14 July 2020 was for £5,000  but it was 
refinanced within 14 days by a larger loan for £7,000 over 54 months. I will refer to this as 
loan 1 throughout this decision. The monthly repayments were £147.55 and the total 
repayable was £7,967.05. A second loan was taken out on 22 April 2022 for £5,000 over 48 
months. The monthly repayments were £114.69 and the total repayable was £5,505.31.
Mrs P says she could not afford the loans, her debt was increasing and she had to borrow 
from family to make her repayments. This has caused her anxiety. Also HSBC did not stop 
advertising credit to her when she asked it to. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ps complaint in part with regards to loan 2. He said loan 1 was 
not given irresponsibly, but proportionate checks would have shown loan 2 was not 
affordable as her income had reduced whilst she was on maternity leave. He found HSBC 
had changed Mrs Ps marketing preferences once she had confirmed what she wanted on 
24 May 2023, after it had replied to her original request on 25 January 2023.
Mrs P initially said she had no further comments to make, but then flagged that HSBC was 
still marketing loans to her on its mobile banking app.
HSBC disagreed with the assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. It said the 
results of its checks for loan 2 did not show any concerns or suggest further checks were 
needed.  Had Mrs P declared the change in her circumstances the application would have 
been manually assessed but she did not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules,
guidance and good industry practice - is set out on our website and I have followed it here.
HSBC is required to lend responsibly. It needed to conduct checks to make sure that the 
loans it offered to Mrs P were affordable and sustainable. Such checks need to be 
proportionate to things like the value and terms of the loans it offered Mrs P, how much she 
had to repay (including interest and charges) each month, her borrowing history with it and 
what it knew about her circumstances. But there is no set list of checks it had to do.
This means to reach my decision I need to consider if HSBC carried out proportionate
checks at the time of Mrs Ps applications; if so, did it make fair lending decisions based on 
the results of its checks; and if not, what better checks would most likely have shown. I also 
need to think about, bearing in mind the second loan was taken out prior to loan 1 being 
repaid, whether there was a point at which HSBC ought reasonably to have realised it was 
increasing Mrs Ps indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and 
so shouldnt have provided further borrowing. 
As neither party disputed the investigators findings about loan 1 I will focus here on loan 2. I 
would reassure Mrs P however that I have reviewed the first lending decision and reached 
the same conclusion as the investigator  that proportionate checks were carried out and 
these showed no reason not to lend.
Loan 2
Before approving this loan HSBC asked Mrs P about her net income. It says it then validated 
the income she supplied and undertook a full affordability assessment using a combination 
of modelled essential monthly spending such as utility bills, council tax, grocery shopping etc 
and any rent or mortgage payments. It included any credit commitments taken from credit 
reference agencies at the time of the application. From this it concluded Mrs P had sufficient 
disposable income to afford loan 2. 
I think it should have done more, Ill explain why.
Mrs P applied for this loan 21 months into the 54-month term of loan 1. Giving the loan to 
Mrs P meant she would then need to spend over 30% of her declared income on her credit 
commitments. Once HSBC was aware of this from its initial checks, I think it ought to have 
carried out a fuller financial review to get the assurances it needed that this would not cause 
Mrs P financial difficulties during the term of the loan. 
To understand what better checks would most likely have shown HSBC I have looked at  
Mrs Ps bank statements from the months prior to her application. I am not saying HSBC had 
to do exactly this but it is a reliable way for me to recreate the likely findings of further 
checks. Whilst Mrs Ps income was broadly as declared in January and February 2022, it fell 
significantly (to around half) in March and April 2022. This was because Mrs P was on 
maternity leave. And in these circumstances the loan was not affordable for Mrs P. 
HSBC told us it verified Mrs Ps declared income by looking at her current account turnover 
using one of the credit reference agencies. I accept in the circumstances of some 
applications this may be proportionate. But in this case, given the other results from the 
initial checks, it dont think this went far enough. As HSBC is aware verifying income using 
current account turnover can at times mislead as it will include all credits onto an account. 
So it is not a definitive view of an applicants monthly income or regular guaranteed 
incomings. As I said, this may not matter in the context of other checks, but here I think it did 
because of the amount Mrs P would be committing to spend on credit each month.
Had HSBC known Mrs Ps income had fallen I think it would have declined her application. It 
also said that Mrs P had a responsibility to declare any known change to her circumstances. 
But this does not diminish its obligation to carry out proportionate checks in order to make a 
fair lending decision.
It follows I think HSBC was wrong to give loan 2 to Mrs P.
Did HSBC act unfairly towards Mrs P in some other way?
Mrs P was also unhappy that HSBC continued to promote loans to her after she had opted 
out of its marketing. Looking at the timeline of the communication between the parties I 
agree with the investigator that as soon as Mrs P had confirmed which channels (phone, 
email, text and/or post) she wanted to opt out of HSBC actioned her request. Mrs P more recently told us that she was still seeing loan adverts on her mobile banking app. HSBC has 
explained that it only very recently (25 September 2023) introduced the capability for 
customers to opt out of marketing on its app. It has now changed Mrs Ps preference through 
this channel to no marketing but advises this can take up to 28 days to come into effect. 
I understand Mrs P was frustrated the loan adverts did not stop on the app at the same time 
as the other channels, but this was not a systems capability HSBC had earlier this year for 
any of its customers. So I cannot find it has treated Mrs P unfairly in this regard. 
I do think however it could have better managed Mrs Ps expectations. Its communication to 
Mrs P on 25 May 2023 said that she had been opted out of all marketing and that was 
somewhat misleading. For the confusion and inconvenience this caused HSBC should 
apologise to Mrs P. 
Putting things right for loan 2
It is reasonable that Mrs P repay the capital she borrowed as she has had the benefit of that 
money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that should not have been given. 
So it should:
Refund all interest and charges, so add up the total Mrs P has repaid and deduct that 
sum from the capital amount of loan 2.
If this results in any overpayment this should be refunded to Mrs P along with 8% 
simple interest (calculated from the date the overpayments were made to the date of 
settlement)*.
If this results in there being an outstanding capital balance HSBC must agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mrs P.
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Ps credit file about loan 2 once any 
outstanding capital balance has been repaid. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give Mrs P a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
When HSBC sends its redress calculation to Mrs P it should also apologise for not making 
clear it was unable to turn off the marketing on her mobile banking app in May 2023.
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Ps complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, must put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman