DRN-3890594
The complaint
Mr A, as the executor of the estate of Mr X, complains that Northern Bank Limited trading as 
Danske Bank (Danske Bank) allowed funds to be fraudulently taken from the late Mr Xs 
account.
What happened
Mr A says that cash withdrawals and in store purchases were made on the late Mr Xs 
account, without his knowledge or his authorisation. These transactions happened while the 
late Mr X was hospitalised or incapacitated due to ill health, with some happening after he 
had passed away. The transactions all took place in early 2019 and total nearly £20,000. 
Mr A contacted Danske Bank and asked them to refund the estate of Mr X for the value of 
the transactions. Danske Bank looked into the claim but declined to refund the transactions. 
They told Mr A that all of the transactions in question were completed with the late Mr Xs 
genuine cards chip and PIN so wouldnt be refunded. They suggested Mr A contact the 
police if he wanted to pursue the matter further.
Mr A wasnt happy with Danske Banks response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They felt that based on the 
information it was most likely that the late Mr X had given his card and PIN to someone to 
use, so wed consider the transactions to have been authorised by him. The investigator 
couldnt see that Danske Bank were aware of the possibility that the late Mr X mayve been 
at risk of financial harm or that additional monitoring of his account was needed  as they 
werent made aware of his health issues or any vulnerability. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators opinion and provided lengthy submissions 
explaining why. Ive reviewed all of the submissions that Mr A has made on behalf of the 
estate of Mr X. The main points hes raised are:
Mr A feels the transactions should be considered as unauthorised in line with the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook.
If the late Mr X needed funds from his account to cover costs etc. he couldve written 
a cheque.
The late Mr X told a family member that he couldnt get the card off the person he 
gave it to, however this wasnt mentioned to Mr A until after the late Mr Xs passing.
Mr A believes the person who had the late Mr Xs card saw Mr Xs Will before his 
passing and discovered they werent included, so drained Mr Xs account.
Danske Bank dont have sufficient or robust monitoring in place.
Mr A feels the late Mr Xs wishes set out in his Will arent being met, and that if he 
had wished for someone to have the funds in his account this couldve been included 
in his Will.
Mr A doubts that the late Mr X gave his card to the person they believe used it.
As Mr A didnt accept the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
On 7 November 2022, I issued a provisional decision explaining I was intending to reach a 
different outcome than the investigator and wanted to give both parties a chance to respond 
before I issue a final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Generally, Danske Bank can hold the late Mr X liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that he made or authorised the transactions 
himself. In this case its not in dispute that the late Mr Xs genuine card and PIN were used 
to withdraw funds from his account. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, 
on its own, enough for Danske Bank to hold him liable. I also need to think about whether 
the evidence suggests that the late Mr X consented to the transactions being made.
Did the late Mr X authorise the transactions that are being disputed?
I will start by addressing the cash withdrawals that were made on the late Mr Xs account 
after he had passed. While someone had and used Mr Xs genuine card and PIN to make 
these transactions, the late Mr X was unable to authorise anyone to access his account once 
he had passed. This means that Danske Bank cant treat these transactions as authorised 
and should refund all the withdrawals made on and after 24 June 2019. This includes seven 
cash withdrawals which total £3,300. I appreciate that Danske Bank werent aware of the 
late Mr Xs passing until nearly a month later, but this doesnt change the position under the 
Payment Service Regulations with regards to the transactions not being authorised.
However, I agree with the investigator that its most likely the late Mr X had authorised all of 
the disputed transactions made prior to his passing, based on giving his card and PIN to 
someone to use. 
Unfortunately, we dont know the circumstances around the late Mr X sharing his card and 
PIN. However, we know the late Mr X himself referenced having given his card to someone 
to use, and we know that person was living with him up to the time he was hospitalised. As 
we have no testimony from that person, I dont know what the specific agreement was 
between them and the late Mr X. But its likely they were involved in the running of the 
household and dealing with at least some of the late Mr Xs expenditure. 
Mr A has raised a number of points regarding the late Mr Xs Will and what it says with 
regards to the distribution of his estate. But I have to consider the relevant rules and 
regulations in deciding whether the payments were authorised and whether Danske Bank 
can fairly hold the late Mr X liable for them. And, by giving out his card and PIN to someone 
to use on a regular basis, he has authorised their use of that card to complete transactions on his account. Also, by sharing his card and PIN, the late Mr X breached the terms and 
conditions of his account by not keeping them secure. This would also allow Danske Bank to 
hold him liable for the transactions. On that basis, I cant fairly ask Danske Bank to refund 
any of the disputed transactions made prior to the late Mr Xs passing.
Im very sorry for Mr As loss and understand this has been made harder by what happened 
with the late Mr Xs account. Also, I appreciate that I have greatly simplified the points Mr A 
made in response to the investigators opinion and I mean no disrespect in doing so. But that 
doesnt mean I havent considered each and every point that Mr A has raised.
I know that Mr A will be disappointed, but I can only fairly ask Danske Bank to refund the 
cash withdrawals made on the late Mr Xs account after his passing.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint against Northern Bank 
Limited trading as Danske Bank and will ask them to refund the estate of Mr X for the seven 
transactions made on and after 24 June 2019 which total £3,300.
Responses to my provisional decision
Danske Bank responded saying they were prepared to accept the provisional decision, 
although they didnt agree that the liability shifted on the passing of Mr X and wanted it noted 
that they were accepting without admitting any fault on their part.
Mr A replied on behalf of the estate of Mr X and disagreed with my provisional decision, 
raising the following points:
Its been assumed that Mr X shared his card and PIN with someone on a regular 
basis. But the use of the card and PIN are not confirmation that they were given by 
the late Mr X. 
Mr X was a longstanding cardholder and had a sharp memory, so its unlikely the PIN 
was written down.
There is no evidence that it was the late Mr Xs original card that was used for the 
transactions.
The reference to the late Mr X giving his card to someone else to use is inaccurate. 
The late Mr X told the family member that his card was at home. On that basis, how 
did the late Mr X breach the terms and conditions of his account, as he wouldve 
considered his card to be safe within his home.
We havent considered that the late Mr Xs card couldve been taken from his home, 
when it was confirmed that he wasnt going to recover.
Danske Bank say they werent aware of the late Mr Xs hospitalisation, however that 
doesnt mean they can hold the late Mr X liable for unauthorised withdrawals.
Danske Bank didnt advise the late Mr X on options to safeguard his account in the 
event of deteriorating health or hospital admittances.
Mr A disagrees that the withdrawals couldve been used for the late Mr Xs benefit, as 
he had limited outgoings.
Mr A suspects the branch staff knew about the late Mr Xs health conditions, as he 
was regularly in the branch.
Danske Bank shouldve spoken to Mr A regarding the death of Mr X, the loss of this money and the impact on him as the executor of the estate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
I appreciate that Ive summarised a lengthy submission made by Mr A in response to the 
Provisional Decision. But Id like to reassure him I have carefully read and considered all the 
points he made. Having done so, I intend to reach the same decision as I reached in my 
provisional decision, and Ill explain why.
Were the disputed transactions authorised by the late Mr X?
Mr A has raised a number of interlinked points relating to how I reached the decision that 
these transactions were authorised by the late Mr X  including questioning the evidence to 
support it.
Danske Bank provided evidence, which shows the transactions were completed by chip and 
PIN. This means that the chip in the late Mr Xs card was read as part of the transactions, 
and the PIN was entered to authorise the transactions. 
Mr A has highlighted that the late Mr X had a sharp memory and isnt likely to have written 
down his PIN. However, if the PIN wasnt written down, I cant see how someone couldve 
correctly guessed his PIN in order to use his card - as the evidence provided by Danske 
Bank shows that the correct PIN was used. So, while someone mayve been able to access 
the late Mr Xs card (if he left it at home for safe keeping), this doesnt explain how they 
wouldve known what his PIN was.
On that basis, I think its more likely than not that the late Mr X shared his PIN with someone 
in order for them to use his card and complete these transactions. Doing this means that the 
transactions would be considered as authorised under the Payment Service Regulations 
(PSRs). Also, by sharing his PIN with someone, the late Mr X breached his account terms 
and conditions which require him to keep his card and security information (in this case his 
PIN) safe. So, Im satisfied that Danske Bank can hold the late Mr X liable and I cant fairly 
ask them to refund the transactions.
Is there any other reason Danske Bank should be asked to refund the transactions?
Mr A says Danske Bank wouldve known about the late Mr Xs health conditions as he was 
regularly in their branch. However, I havent seen any evidence that suggests Danske Bank 
were told, or had concerns, that the late Mr X lacked the capacity to manage his accounts. 
So, I cant fairly say they shouldve undertaken any additional checks or monitoring on his 
account.I have also considered the pattern of the transactions that Mr A is disputing (in early 2019), 
which he says shouldve concerned Danske Bank as part of their normal account monitoring. 
But Im not satisfied this is the case. In the last five months of 2018, prior to the disputed 
transactions, the late Mr Xs account had around 20 to 30 debit transactions each month, 
with the monthly total value of those transactions ranging from £600 to £3,000. 
In the first three months of 2019, this pattern continued with no significant changes. In April 
2019, the number of debit transactions didnt significantly increase, but the value of the 
transactions increased to £7,000. These transactions were spread across the month, and 
there were no large one-off withdrawals. Also, the balance of the account wasnt drained 
with over £4,000 remaining in the account. The following month (May 2019) the transactions 
returned to the prior pattern. Im not satisfied based on the account activity in April that 
Danske Bank shouldve been concerned that the late Mr X mayve been the victim of fraud 
or intervened.
And, while Mr A says that the late Mr X had limited need for funds while he was hospitalised, 
its not clear if any of these disputed withdrawals were used for Mr Xs benefit. And, I 
wouldnt be able to fairly ask Danske Bank to refund transactions where that mayve been 
the case.
Mr A has also raised concerns regarding the level of customer service Danske Bank have 
provided. He feels Danske Bank shouldve advised the late Mr X on options to safeguard his 
account in the event of deteriorating health or hospital admittances. However, I cant see that 
they were made aware that the late Mr X needed this support or guidance. 
Mr A also feels Danske Bank shouldve called him regarding the passing of the late Mr X, the 
loss of this money and how it impacted on him as the executor of the estate. While I can 
appreciate that Mr A mayve wanted a call, I cant comment on Danske Banks procedures or 
processes. From what Ive seen, they closed the late Mr Xs account within days of being 
notified of his passing and followed the instructions they were given with regards to 
forwarding the funds to the estate. They also provided their initial response to Mr As 
complaint within a couple of days of him contacting them, letting him know they wouldnt be 
refunding the transactions he was disputing. Based on what Ive seen, I cant fairly say 
Danske Bank acted unreasonably in responding to Mr A in writing rather than calling him.
Im very sorry for Mr As loss and I understand that he is going to be disappointed in this 
outcome. But I cant fairly ask Danske Bank to refund any of the transactions made prior to 
the late Mr Xs passing. Danske Bank should however refund the transactions made on or 
after the late Mr Xs passing (as agreed), which total £3,300.
Putting things right
To put things right Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank should refund the estate 
of Mr X for the seven transactions made on and after 24 June 2019 which total £3,300.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Northern Bank Limited trading as 
Danske Bank and require them to compensate the estate of Mr X as set out above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of X to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman