DRN-3974706
The complaint
Miss V complains that Santander UK Plc restricted access to her account and closed it with 
immediate notice. Shed like compensation for the impact. 
What happened. 
Santander restricted Miss Vs account on 17 October 2022 and closed it with immediate 
notice on 1 November 2022. They issued Miss V with a cheque for the full balance at the 
same time. 
Miss V argued that she was caused inconvenience in being unable to get access to her 
salary and this meant she wasnt able to travel to work or make her credit card payments. 
And she was caused significant distress. 
She complained to Santander, but the bank thought theyd acted fairly in restricting and 
closing her account without notice. 
Miss V wasnt happy with Santanders response so complained to our service. 
 
Our adjudicator explained that they thought Santander had acted fairly in restricting Miss Vs 
account and closing her bank account. But, they asked Miss V to provide evidence of the 
impact the block of her funds had on her. Miss V sent in credit card statements from her 
credit card with another provider, Ill call A, and explained that as a result of not being able to 
make payment on 30 October 2022 she incurred charges and extra interest.
Miss V didnt agree with our adjudicators conclusion. 
As Miss V didnt agree its been passed to me to decide. On reviewing the case I explained 
my initial findings to Miss V  I advised that Id reached the same conclusion as investigator 
but expanded on the reasoning.  
 
I explained that I thought Santander acted fairly in restricting and closing Miss Vs account. 
And therefore I wouldnt be considering any impact from the banks actions on Miss V  
including late payment charges or interest. 
Miss V didnt reply, so Ive proceeded to issue my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. I've looked at what's happened on 
Miss V account and I appreciate that she found this inconvenient, but I'm satisfied Santander 
acted fairly in blocking her account on 17 October 2022.
 
Santander have a responsibility to ensure any review they carry out is completed within a 
reasonable timescale. Miss Vs account was blocked on 17 October 2022 and closed on 
1 November 2022. I've considered Santander's actions during the review, and I'm satisfied 
the time taken was fair. Miss Vs account was closed and the funds were returned on 
1 November 2022 via cheque. I understand that this led Miss V to miss a payment towards 
her credit card with A. I realise this will disappoint Miss V, however this isn't something I can 
hold Santander responsible for. I say this because I'm satisfied the length of time Santander 
took to review Miss Vs account was fair and therefore I can't conclude they should be held 
responsible for any impact caused to Miss V during this time. 
 
Miss V advised that she wasnt able to access her salary or have salary payments paid into 
her account during the block. Id expect Santander to give Miss V access to any salary or 
benefit payments which credited the account. But, I've reviewed the statements and Miss V 
didnt receive any salary payments immediately prior to or during the block and didn't have 
any funds remaining from previous salary payments. And having reviewed the 
communications between Santander and Miss V I can't see that Santander advised Miss V 
to redirect her salary. It follows, I can't say Santander acted unfairly here. 
 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I wont be asking Santander to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman