DRN-3771029
The complaint
Mr D complains about Zurich Insurance PLCs handling of a claim made under his 
homeowners insurance policy
What happened
Mr D has home insurance underwritten by Zurich to cover a property he owns and partly 
rents out.
He made a claim in November 2020 after damage to his home when it was occupied by 
previous tenants.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill give only a brief 
summary here. 
In short, Zurich accepted the claim and set about assessing the damage and establishing 
what repairs were required. Mr D was unhappy with the way they were doing this and 
thought there were unnecessary delays.
Mr D has made previous complaints to Zurich  and then to us  about the handling of the 
claim. They covered events up to early March 2022. One of those complaints is still open 
and with another ombudsman for a decision.
Mr D complained again to Zurich and received their final response to this particular 
complaint in April 2022. 
In this complaint, Mr D said Zurich offered a cash settlement which was too low to allow him 
to get the necessary repairs done. He also said alternative accommodation payments should 
continue until the repairs are finished (not until the date of any cash settlement). 
And hes also since raised questions about late payment of alternative accommodation costs 
and about Zurichs requests for information or documents to support elements of his claim.
In their final response, Zurich admitted a payment for alternative accommodation had been 
late and added 8% interest to that payment for the period of the delay. And they paid Mr D 
£150 compensation for his trouble and upset.
They also said theyd appointed contractors to do the work, but that if Mr D wanted to make 
alterations to the property at the same time, they could offer a cash settlement for the 
insured repairs.
Mr D wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think Zurich had done anything wrong.
Mr D disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is rather complicated by the background of repeated complaints Mr D has 
made to Zurich and then to us. These have at times overlapped  as is the case here  so 
that the earlier complaint isnt yet resolved before the next complaint is made.
In that context, its important for me to be clear about what events and time period I can 
consider in this decision.
Mr Ds previous complaints cover Zurichs handling of the claim up to March 2022. Its not for 
me to go over that ground again now. Mr D has received compensation for his trouble and 
upset in that period overall. So, in this decision, I can only consider events after early March 
2022. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) dispute resolution (DISP) rules stipulate that we 
can only consider a complaints if the relevant financial business has already had the chance 
to consider and resolve it themselves. 
Mr Ds latest complaint to Zurich received a final response from them on 13 April 2022 and 
that complaint was then referred to us. By definition than, Zurich cant conceivably have had 
a chance to answer any complaint about anything that happened after 13 April 2022. So, 
thats the end date of the period I can consider in this decision.
If Mr D wants to complain about anything thats happened since 13 April 2022, he would 
have to make a new complaint to Zurich and then bring that to us if hes unhappy with 
Zurichs response.
In summary, the events I can consider in this decision took place between early March 2022 
and 13 April 2022. Ill deal with Mr Ds complaint points relating to events within that period 
below.
Cash settlement
This is something of a moot point now. Zurich appointed a contractor originally to carry out 
the repairs. That contractor was unwilling in the end to carry on with the work, so Zurich 
appointed another contractor. 
That change of contractor was unavoidable in all the circumstances and Zurich did the right 
thing in appointing a new contractor as soon as possible.
Zurich offered to cash settle the claim, only if Mr D wanted that to be the way forward, on the 
basis that Mr D had said he wanted to have non-claim-related alterations made to the 
property at the same time.
As I understand it, Mr D has decided not to go ahead with the planned alterations and hes 
happy for the second contractor to carry out the repair work. So, in a sense, the amount on 
the table for a cash settlement is irrelevant now.
However, just to be clear, as Mr D has himself pointed out to us, Zurich  and other insurers 
 can usually get repair work carried out at a cheaper rate than might be available to their 
customers if they went to the contractor direct.Its not entirely surprising then if the cost to Zurich  as per the agreed schedule of works  
is lower than Mr D might obtain if he had the work carried out himself. 
Our view is that if the insurer is offering to do the work, but the customer insists on a cash 
settlement, then its perfectly fair and reasonable for the insurer to pay only what it would 
have cost them to carry out the work. 
Whereas if the insurer insists on a cash settlement, its only fair to pay the customer what it 
would cost them (the customer) to have the work done to restore their property.
In summary, the cash settlement offered by Zurich is no longer of any consequence. Even if 
it were, it would be fair for them to offer only what it would have cost them to have the 
repairs completed, not what it would cost Mr D, given that he would be the party insisting on 
a cash settlement.
Alternative accommodation payments 
Its not entirely clear whether Mr D is complaining about the late payment Zurich have 
admitted or hypothesising about whether theyll continue to pay his alternative 
accommodation costs in future  or both.
If its the former, the payment has now been made. And the interest added by Zurich fairly 
and reasonably reflects the fact that Mr D was deprived of that money for a period of time. 
Zurichs compensation payment is also fair and reasonable, if not generous, given the period 
of time involved.
If Mr Ds concern was that Zurich would cut the alternative accommodation payments at 
some point  possibly when he accepted a cash settlement  then that appears to be 
hypothetical and/or now irrelevant, for the reasons set out above.
If Zurich do stop the payments at some point, for whatever reason, theyll presumably 
explain why to Mr D. And if Mr D thinks thats unfair, hed be entitled to make a new 
complaint  to Zurich at first and then to us if hes still not happy after Zurichs response.
Zurichs requests for information / evidence to support the claim
Zurich have asked Mr D for further information or documentation to support his claim that 
they should pay for Council Tax, parking and service charges.
As the policy terms make absolutely clear, Zurich are entitled to ask for information and/or 
evidence to support a claim. None of the information theyve asked for appears in the least 
surprising - or difficult for Mr D to provide.
Summary
This complaint, as explained above, covers a very short period of time and a limited set of 
events. I cant find any reason to suggest that Zurich acted in any way unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr D in that period.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman