DRN-3920121
The complaint
Mr H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has acted unfairly when 
pricing a home insurance policy hes had in place for a number of years.
What happened
Mr H became a trustee for an inherited property from his late mother in 2013. The property is 
a leasehold property and has been owned since 1995 and used by the family throughout. 
The buildings insurance was underwritten by RSA during this time with the policy being 
arranged by the freeholder and its broker, with the cost passed on to the leaseholder. For 
the earlier years this cost was paid as a cheque to the freeholder by Mr Hs late mother and 
in later years, Mr H took over payment directly by direct debit to RSA.
Mr H says he had no option but to renew with RSA, this was despite him having questioned 
the price of the insurance. He says he attempted to have this reviewed in 2013 and again in 
the two subsequent years as he didnt think it was fair. Neither the freeholder or RSA 
allowed this to be changed and the policy continued.
In early 2022, RSA wrote to Mr H to let him know that the policy would not renew. This was 
because the product was being withdrawn and RSA explained that Mr H could shop around 
for a new policy and RSAs subsidiary company may be able to provide cover too.
The freeholder also wrote to Mr H to explain the policy was not going to renew and it 
proposed that Mr H use its broker to arrange the new insurance. It also highlighted the RSA 
price was seemingly more expensive than other providers that its broker could find. 
In 2021 the last year RSA provided the insurance, the premium was £443 for the year. When 
the renewal was offered, Mr H conducted his own research and said he found an identical 
policy that met his needs for less than £75 per year. He complained to RSA that it had 
overcharged him and his late mother for the insurance. He felt the comparison of what the 
new insurer could provide the insurance for, demonstrated that RSA had treated him unfairly 
and charged more than it should for the policy.
RSA looked at Mr Hs complaint. It said it felt the premium charged each year had been 
calculated correctly and it didnt think it had done anything wrong when reaching the price it 
had. It couldnt provide specific details of the increase in price and why this had changed 
overtime as this was commercially sensitive, but the fact another insurer was able to provide 
the cover for less, didnt mean it had acted unfairly. It also said it hadnt placed any 
requirement on Mr H to renew the policy with it each year. If he felt there was no choice with 
the insurance and who provided this, hed need to question this with the freeholder who 
arranged the insurance.
But RSA said it would make a goodwill payment of £2593.00 to recognise hed been a 
customer for a long period of time and made no claims. So the payment was made to thank 
him as a longstanding customer.
Our investigator looked at Mr Hs complaint and said that she didnt think this service could 
consider all of the years complained about. She didnt think we could look at the premium 
and how this was calculated before 2015 as the complaint had been brought too late to 
consider these premiums. This was because it was more than six years since the event 
complained about and more than three years from when Mr H knew, or ought reasonably to 
have known he had cause for complaint. 
She didnt think Mr H had provided any reason to explain why the complaint hadnt been 
brought sooner, so there were no exceptional circumstances to explain the delay. As a 
result, she said we could only look at the premiums and how RSA calculated these and 
treated Mr H, for the six years before the complaint was brought. 
When looking at the premiums from 2015 onwards and how RSA had acted when 
calculating these, she didnt think it had done anything wrong. She explained she was 
satisfied that the price increases had been applied because of RSAs pricing structure 
changing at different points with multiple things impacting this. She couldnt share the 
specific details of these changes because of the commercially sensitive nature of them, but 
she didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Because of this she didnt think RSA needed to do anything else or that the offer it made as 
a goodwill offer was unfair.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators assessment raising a number of objections. Ive 
summarised these below:
- He maintains that for 27 years RSA locked his mother and later, himself into a policy 
that was overcharged when benchmarked against policies in 2022. Demonstrated by 
the cost being 711% of like for like comparisons found and purchased.  
- The premium was RSA quoted in 2022 was 284% more expensive than the quotes 
the freeholder was able to obtain.
- IN 2013, Mr H tried to move to RSAs subsidiary brand as the policy was cheaper but 
he was told the freeholder needed to agree the move.
- In 1995 Mr Hs sister was aware many competitor products were far cheaper than 
RSAs and his late mothers residential property was much better value than this 
policy.
- RSAs offer of £2593.00 implies acknowledgment of a degree of unfair pricing and 
theyve been unable to justify or explain this calculation.
Our investigators opinion remained unchanged so the complaint has been passed to me for 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has said, this service is not able to consider all of Mr Hs complaint. I 
know hell be unhappy about this and has questioned the fairness of the Dispute Resolution 
Rules (DISP) rules being applied when he had no knowledge of the time limitations, but I 
agree some of the complaint has been brought too late for us to consider. 
What we cant considerThe rules that set out what we can and cannot look into are set by the Financial Conduct 
Authority and are called the DISP rules. The relevant time limit here are set under 
DISP 2.8.2 (2). This says this service cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers 
the complaint:
(2) more than:
(a) Six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) Three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
We can consider a complaint brought outside of these limits if the business has consented to 
this or if we are satisfied the reason for the delay is because of exceptional circumstances. 
RSA hasnt consented to us considering the complaint beyond six years from the date it was 
made. As the insurance renewed at the start of year, this means the cost of the insurance 
from 2015/16 onwards is as far back as the six years would allow. So Ive considered 
whether this service can look at all of the complaint before looking at how RSA has treated 
Mr H from 2015 onwards.
Mr Hs complains RSA has acted unfairly when pricy the policy and not allowing him to move 
the policy to another provider. The insurance is an annual policy and each year a renewal is 
offered, each renewal is an event that could be complained about. As the policy has been in 
place since 1995, it is clear the majority of the events complained about took place more 
than six years ago.
Mr H first raised his complaint in early 2022 so any renewal complained about within six 
years of this date has been made in time. So this service can consider how RSA has treated 
Mr H when pricing his insurance from 2016 onwards including the price for the 2015/2016 
renewal. The question is whether it is fair to say that Mr H knew, or ought reasonably to have 
known he had cause for complaint before he made his complaint in 2022.  
Mr H was first aware of the cost of the policy when he took this over in 2013. Hes explained 
in some detail the conversations hes had around this time with both RSA and the freeholder 
about this cost and his feeling on this, explaining he wanted to be able to move this another 
provider and was told this wasnt possible. So I think its reasonable to say that Mr H knew or 
ought to have been aware in 2013 that had cause for complaint. So Mr H had three years 
from this point to raise a complaint about the historic price increases before this point. 
Mr H feels he did make a complaint when he spoke with RSA in 2013 and the two 
subsequent years. However, there is no indication from the contact notes provided by RSA 
that Mr H did raise a complaint at the time about the insurance cost and his desire to move 
this from RSA. I know Mr H has concerns about RSAs practices overall, highlighting a 
number of historic events, but I see no reason to doubt the information provided. And Mr H 
hasnt said why he wasnt able to contact this service about the cost of the insurance sooner 
if he was unhappy with this and a lack of response to his complaint being raised.
Mr H called RSA in 2019 and Ive listened to the call recording. In this call, Mr H explains 
that he is looking for information about how to change the policy. Hed looked online and 
found a large number of quotes all considerably cheaper than the RSA renewal price and 
wanted to see if the price of the policy could be brought closer. RSA explained because the 
policy was sold through an agent, it wasnt able to offer a discount as the policy was a closed 
book and no longer sold. It would normally offer a quote on its current live system under a 
different brand, but because it couldnt say what the arrangement was that Mr H had with his 
lease agreement with the agent/freeholder and arranging the policy, it couldnt offer him a quote. RSA said  Mr H needed to contact the agent to discuss the policy and changing it if 
he was unhappy with the renewal.
Mr H explained hed tried a number of times to speak with the agent over the phone but had 
been unsuccessful. It was confirmed the number he had was correct and it was advised that 
he keeps trying as RSA was aware the number worked. RSA said it would not say he needs 
to stay insured with it and never would, if there was anything like this in the contract of the 
lease, he needed to discuss this with the agent. 
Mr H didnt say he wanted to complain about the price at this point, but he was looking for 
information to allow him to move the policy to a cheaper one and he was provided with this.
With the above in mind, Im not satisfied a complaint was raised before 2022. Mr H hasnt 
provided a reason which I consider to be an exceptional circumstance to explain the delay in 
the complaint being raised sooner. And in the absence of this, I agree that this service 
cannot consider RSAs actions in relation to the pricing of this insurance and its treatment of 
Mr H before 2015.
What we can consider  
Ive looked at how RSA has treated Mr H and priced his policy since 2015, thinking about the 
comments Mr H has made. Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Mr H has provided a great deal of information including articles he feels are relevant to his 
case and wider scene setting for RSA and its actions. Im grateful for this and have taken 
everything into account when making my decision. But Ive focused on what I feel is central 
to the complaint and decision when doing this and mean no offence when I dont reference 
everything provided. 
Mr H has highlighted a number of things which he feels demonstrates RSAs failings. Hes 
produced calculations which he feels support the cost of the policy having increased unfairly, 
with comparisons being drawn against other policies. And he thinks RSA locked him in to the 
contract with it, not allowing him to move the policy to another provider.
Did RSA stop Mr H from insuring his property with another provider?
Ive considered firstly whether I think RSA did stop Mr H from moving the policy, so did it lock 
him into a contract. 
The property insured is a leasehold property and as is usual with leasehold properties, Mr H 
has explained the freeholder/managing agent is responsible for arranging the insurance for 
the building with this cost passed on to the leaseholder.  Although Im not able to comment 
on the actions of RSA before 2015, Mr H has provided information going back to the 
inception of the policy which supports that the freeholder arranged the insurance in 1995. 
And until Mr H asked for payment to be taken via direct debit, this was paid by the managing 
agent with a cheque for the insurance cost made payable to the agent upon request each 
year. 
The distribution chain for insurance with leasehold properties is different to freehold as the 
freeholder looks to ensure the building is insured. Ive not been provided with a copy of the 
leasehold agreement and due to the amount of time that has passed, it is not surprising this 
isnt available. But I think it is fair to say the freeholder was responsible for arranging the 
insurance based on everything Ive seen. And it follows that if Mr H wanted to change the 
insurance provider, he needed to raise this with the freeholder. RSA explained this to Mr H in 
the call in 2019 and he confirmed he had its details to make contact.RSA has also said it has no special arrangement with the freeholder or managing agent and 
that Mr Hs policy was a standard policy available to the broker network. So Ive not seen 
anything which indicates RSA has a vested interest in keeping the policy in place as it was 
not bespoke to the agent.  
Ultimately, Im not persuaded RSA did restrict Mr H from moving the insurance. The 
responsibility for arranging this sat with the managing agent and if Mr H was unhappy with 
this, hed need to have raised it with them.
Has RSA treated Mr H fairly when pricing the insurance? 
RSA has provided us with information about the cost of the policy and why this increased 
over time. Mr H has provided his own comparisons based on different factors which he feels 
should be used to demonstrate what a fair price is. I appreciate the time and effort Mr H has 
put into producing these comparisons but I dont think these have any relevance to how RSA 
has calculated the price or whether its actions were fair. 
Mr H has also highlighted that RSA, through another brand it underwrites was able to 
provide a more competitive quote and he thinks this demonstrates it wasnt treating him 
fairly. I understand why this is a concern, but Ill explain why I dont agree this demonstrates 
RSA did anything wrong. 
Insurers are allowed to price differently, depending on the brand and sales channel used to 
purchase the policy. In very simple terms, this is because each brand and sales channel will 
have different associated costs, so comparing the price of each does not show one price 
was wrong or right. 
RSA, like all insurers takes account of a number of different factors when calculating the 
price of the insurance they want to offer. And it builds within its pricing structure, a margin it 
feels it needs to charge to be commercially viable. RSA has shared with us the margin 
information for Mr Hs policy to help explain why it feels it hasnt treated Mr H unfairly. This is 
the pricing structure for the product he had and is applied to all similar policies. I cant share 
the specific details of this as it is commercially sensitive but Ill explain what I can and why I 
feel it demonstrates RSA hasnt treated Mr H unfairly. 
Although Mr Hs premium increased year on year from 2015 onwards, the margin amount 
RSA charged reduced a number of times after this and remained under this level until the 
policy was cancelled. So when looking at the margin information, RSA was making less on 
the policy as a percentage amount even though the cost increased. RSA has also explained 
the margin charged on Mr Hs policy was some way below the maximum margin benchmark 
it has in place.
With the margin decreasing on the policy for a number of years, it demonstrates that price 
increases overall were reflective of the cost of the insurance to RSA increasing. This will be 
based on a number of factors including things like claims inflation. And the overall cost to 
Mr H will have increased as these costs were passed on. But RSA reduced the impact of the 
price increases by reducing the margin. 
It is also important to note that some factors that increase the cost of insurance are outside 
of the control of RSA and Insurance Premium Tax rates increased over the years 
complained about. This increased from 6% to 12% between 2015 and 2017 and will have 
increased the overall cost of the insurance for Mr H. 
Overall, Ive not seen anything to show that RSA was treating Mr H unfairly when it priced 
his insurance. The margin reduced, reducing the yearly increases that would have been applied had RSA maintained the margin rate and Im satisfied the premium increases were 
in line with RSAs approach to the product Mr H had and he wasnt treated differently or 
unfairly. And the comparison to the different brand under the RSA umbrella is not something 
that can be used as a fair comparison. 
RSA made an offer that it has said is a goodwill offer to thank Mr H for being a longstanding 
customer who hasnt made a claim on the policy. Mr H feels this offer is an indication of RSA 
having made a mistake and he wants to understand more about why it was made. As Ive 
said, having looked at how RSA has acted when pricing the policy, Ive not seen anything 
which indicates it was acting unfairly or made a mistake, but I understand why Mr H feels 
this way.
RSA has explained it has provided a refund of premiums to Mr H with interest added to this 
refund. It has done this as it recognised the aspects of vulnerability in Mr Hs case and that 
he has been a longstanding customer. 
As I think the price and its increases have been fairly explained by RSA, I think it follows 
that any refund that in effect reduces this, is fair and I wouldnt expect RSA to go further than 
it has.
Overall, Im not persuaded RSA has done anything wrong. I dont think it restricted the policy 
being cancelled or changed. Any questions about being able to move the policy sooner are 
better directed to the managing agent/freeholder as Mr H has indicated, it is responsible for 
sourcing the policy for the property.  And Im satisfied RSA didnt act unfairly when 
increasing the price of this policy as it has over the years. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman