DRN-2389183
The complaint
Mr O complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) associated his phone number with a different 
customers account  resulting in him receiving numerous unwanted texts over many years.
What happened
In 2019 Mr O contacted TSB because hed been getting a weekly text with the balance of 
someone elses account for three or four years. He says he was initially reassured it would 
be sorted, but the texts continued.
Mr O says he subsequently called TSB on several occasions, each time spending in excess 
of 30 mins on the phone either on hold or discussing the complaint. TSB eventually agreed 
to delete his number from their system, and the texts stopped. 
TSB apologised for the error and offered Mr O £118 in compensation for his call costs and 
time spent in sorting the matter. Mr O didnt accept the offer  saying hed taken time out of 
his working day to fix the issue and based on his hourly rate he was out of pocket by more 
than £1,500. Unhappy with the response, Mr O referred his complaint to our service for 
review.
TSB initially said Mr O wasnt an eligible complainant  as he wasnt a customer of theirs  
so didnt think we couldnt consider the complaint. Our investigator said that as he had been 
a customer of the bank when previously merged with another, we could look at the complaint 
 and TSB agreed. 
The investigator said we wouldnt calculate compensation for time wasted based on an 
individuals income, and so thought the offer made was fair. The investigator also said there 
were other ways Mr O could have contacted TSB which would have avoided so much time 
being spent on the phone during working hours.
Mr O responded that he wouldnt have been able to register a complaint online without 
customer details, and that even without factoring in his hourly rate the compensation offered 
wasnt enough. TSB searched for evidence to support the number of phone calls Mr O said 
hed had to make, but could only find records of two calls received from the numbers 
provided. 
As Mr O didnt agree with investigators view, the complaint was passed to me for a decision 
on the matter
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint  and Ive explained why below. 
TSB initially implied in its final response letter that a system error could have been the cause 
of the unwanted texts, with information from an old customer profile for Mr O pulling through 
to a different customers account. TSB later said it didnt think that was possible  instead 
believing the mistake occurred either when one of its agents was adding another customers 
mobile number (and mis-typed it as Mr Os) or when another customer gave the bank 
incorrect information. 
Its uncertain whether TSB are at fault for the texts themselves. But once told about the 
potential data breach, I think the bank ought to have been able to resolve things sooner  
and without Mr O having to go to the effort he did. Working out fair compensation for that 
effort has been difficult, though, as there hasnt been consistent testimony around the 
lengths Mr O went to in sorting the matter (and it isnt supported by other evidence).
Mr O told TSB during the call where he registered the complaint that hed made four calls 
and had been on the phone an hour and a half in total. On our complaint form he said it had 
been five calls totalling four hours overall. In an email to us on 9 July 2020 Mr O said it was 
four or five calls and at least five hours on the phone with TSB. In his reply to the 
investigators view Mr O told us hed spent between five and seven hours on the phone, and 
in September 2020 he thought it had been four or five calls over the course of a year  with 
each one lasting 30-60 minutes. 
Ive only been able to listen to two of the calls Mr O says he made, as those are the only 
recordings TSB has located using the numbers he provided. Theres a shorter call lasting 
only a minute from August 2019, which sounds like the first time he called about the issue. 
During it Mr O told TSB that for years hed been receiving a text each week that wasnt 
meant for him. Though Im sure that wouldve been irritating, it doesnt appear to have had 
much impact on him up until that point (given how long he allowed it to go on for). 
The other recorded call is from October 2019 and lasted around 45 minutes. During it Mr O 
raised the complaint and referenced three previous calls about the issue. At the end of that 
conversation he told the agent hed been on the phone for an hour and half in total. I 
appreciate that as more time has elapsed (these calls happened over a year ago now) his 
memory of the time and effort spent attempting to resolve things may have been distorted. 
So, on balance, and considering the evidence Ive reviewed, I find his initial recollection 
(during the October 2019 complaint call), about how many times and how long hed spent on 
the phone, most persuasive. 
Mr O has calculated the value of his time spent based on his hourly rate. But I havent seen 
enough evidence to show he lost earnings as a result of having to speak to the bank, just 
that his time was wasted. Mr O has said it wouldnt have been possible for him to complain 
online, but TSBs online complaint form at the time in question allowed non-customers to 
complete it. Theres also a postal address for TSB at the bottom of the page. 
While there were other ways Mr O could have contacted TSB, that would have avoided him 
having to call during his working hours, I appreciate why he thought speaking to someone on 
the phone would be the easiest way to sort things. He didnt expect to be calling multiple 
times, which is why he raised a formal complaint on the fourth go. I agree this would have 
been unnecessarily time consuming and frustrating for Mr O. But, taking account of all of the 
above (including how long I think he likely spent on the phone with the bank), Im satisfied 
that TSBs offer of £118 does fairly compensate him for the inconvenience caused.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint about TSB Bank plc, as I think the 
offer already made is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2020.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman