DRN-3068394
The complaint
Mr N complains that Hyundai Capital UK Limited (Hyundai Capital), trading as Hyundai 
Finance, took a balloon payment on the wrong date and that this caused distress and 
inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr N acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
Theres no dispute here that the balloon payment was taken a month early. Hyundai Capital 
recognised that theyd made a mistake and offered £100 to compensate Mr N for the error. 
They also explained that they would refund any overdraft fees or charges he incurred as a 
result of the mistake. The issue here is whether that redress is sufficient.
I think it is. I say that because Ive not seen evidence of any financial impact on Mr N or any 
impact on his credit file, but I have read Mr Ns testimony about the distress the unexpected 
debit caused him. Hes explained that he needed to talk to friends and family to ensure the 
money was available and that he needed to take a day off work to resolve matters. Hes also 
told us that the mistake was made at a time when he was considering an application for a 
loan, was changing jobs and expecting a new baby.
Whilst I can understand the impact this has had I think £100 is sufficient compensation in the 
circumstances. I dont think it would be fair to ask Hyundai Capital to waive the balloon 
payment. That would be disproportionate as there is no evidence of loss of that magnitude.
So, overall, Im not asking Hyundai Capital to take any additional action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman