DRN-1645547
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that when he bought a car insurance policy the sales process was unclear. 
He said he had to cancel the policy because he couldnt increase his annual mileage. 
Mr B is represented by his mother, Mrs B. For ease Ill refer to all comments and actions, by 
either Mr B or his representative, solely as those of Mr B. 
What happened
In April 2019 Mr B took out a car insurance policy. He bought the policy online through 
BISL Limited (BISL), an intermediary who sell and administer policies on behalf of a panel 
of insurers. Mr B may know BISL by another name.
When Mr B bought the policy he was asked, among other things, how many miles per year 
he would drive. Mr B provided a figure of 10,000 miles. Mr Bs policy was a telematics (or 
black-box) policy. These policies require a device to be fitted to record information about 
how the car is being driven, such as speed and mileage.
 
BISL contacted Mr B around three months into his policy. It explained that based on the data 
it had recorded so far, Mr B was likely to exceed his annual mileage. BISL invited Mr B to 
call to discuss the matter further.
 
Mr B phoned BISL. During this call he was told that his annual mileage couldnt be increased 
beyond 10,000 miles. Mr B was unhappy, so he complained. BISL investigated and it 
explained it has certain criteria with insurers. Part of the criteria with Mr Bs insurer is that 
BISL cant offer cover if the annual mileage exceeds 10,000. BISL explained in its letter that, 
at the time of writing, Mr B hadnt yet exceeded his annual mileage. But if Mr B decided the 
policy no longer met his requirements, and he want to cancel, BISL wouldnt apply its 
cancellation fee.
 
BISL also recognised its service had been disappointing. It acknowledged that when he 
called, Mr B hadnt been given the option of obtaining a quote with another of BISLs 
insurers. So it said Mr B could do so now, if he wished. BISL also apologised for the distress 
and inconvenience its call handling caused Mr M and offered to pay him a total of £50 to 
compensate him.
 
Mr B remained unhappy so he brought his case to our service. Mr B said the sales process 
was unclear and BISL shouldve said at the outset that 10,000 was the maximum annual 
mileage. Mr B said he had to cancel his policy as a result of BISLs actions, and then take 
out a new one at further expense. He also said he had lost out on four months of no claims  
which wouldve had a beneficial impact on his future premiums.
 
An investigator looked at what happened, but they didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. The investigator said they understood it would be difficult for a new driver to estimate 
annual mileage. But BISLs final response letter did give Mr B the option of continuing with 
his policy. Additionally, the investigator thought BISLs compensation and waiver of 
cancellation fee was enough to recognise its shortcomings.
 
Mr B disagreed. He said he was sold a policy with a maximum annual mileage of 10,000, but 
it was termed as an estimate. Mr B said BISL has a duty to be fair and transparent. He said 
the issue was nothing to do with the cancellation  but the initial sales process. 
The investigator reconsidered but didnt change their mind. They said they had seen the 
question Mr B was asked when he bought the policy, and they thought the importance of 
answering the annual mileage correctly was clear.
 
Mr B still disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. The complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BISL acts as an intermediary, which means it sells and administers policies on behalf of a 
range of insurers. As an intermediary, at the point of sale, BISL wouldve used the 
information provided by Mr B to determine if an insurer on its panel would offer cover. It 
seems this is what happened here. Mr B provided the specifications of the policy he was 
looking for, BISL used this information and provided a quote which Mr B chose to proceed 
with.
 
Ive seen screenshots of the sales process. From what Ive seen Mr B was asked How 
many miles does this car cover each year?. Alongside that question I understand there was 
a statement outlining the importance of getting the mileage figure right, and warning of 
possible effects to the policy if the figure is incorrect. The statement reads We need to know 
the total annual mileage of the car Its important to get this right... There were also tips 
around how to work out annual mileage. I dont think the question itself is asking for an 
estimate. Rather, its specific, and I think it appropriately highlights the risk of not providing 
accurate information.
 
After he bought the policy Mr B was sent the relevant documents. The policy schedule 
shows an annual mileage up to 10,000. I think thats precise as it doesnt say Mr B had an 
annual mileage of around, or about, 10,000. Mr B said the car would cover 10,000 miles, and 
thats what the policy provided cover for. Thats not to say I think Mr B did anything wrong. 
He provided information he thought was correct at the time. But I dont think BISL did 
anything wrong here either, because it sourced a policy for Mr B which matched what he 
asked for. It simply seems to be that, after some months, the driving data recorded by the 
black-box flagged Mr B was on track to do more miles than he thought he would. 
Ive seen BISLs final response to Mr Bs complaint. Mr B was told he could leave things as 
they were, hed just have to keep his annual mileage limit in mind for the remainder of the 
policy term. He could choose to obtain new quotes from other insurers on BISLs panel. Or 
finally, if Mr B did wish to cancel the policy, BISL said it wouldnt apply the usual cancellation 
fee. I think these options were fair as they gave Mr B a clear choice for how he wanted to 
proceed.
 
I do think, though, that BISL couldve explained these options sooner. BISL has 
acknowledged its poor service and has offered £50 compensation. I think the offer is 
reasonable in the circumstances, and I say this because Im satisfied it was a mistake that 
was soon remedied by the information in the final response letter. So BISL should pay this if 
it hasnt already.Having taken everything into account, I agree BISLs customer service couldve been better, 
but I dont think it mis-sold the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require BISL Limited to pay Mr B a total of 
£50 compensation, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman