DRN-2284237
The complaint
Miss T has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS) acted irresponsibly when it accepted 
her as guarantor for a loan it gave to her work colleague.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2020 that I summarise below.
Miss T entered into a guarantee and indemnity agreement in respect of a £5,000 loan that 
TFS provided to her work colleague, Miss B, in December 2017. The loan was due to be 
repaid in 36 monthly instalments of around £221. The total amount payable including interest 
was about £7,981. From what Ive seen, Miss T had to pay some of the loan before settling 
the account in April 2018 with a payment of just over £5,287.
In my provisional decision I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint. 
Under the rules and regulations, TFS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't 
act irresponsibly when it accepted Miss T as a guarantor for Miss Bs loan application.
I explained that TFS had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Miss T would be able repay the loan sustainably, as guarantor, if she was called to do 
so - as she was equally liable with Miss B for this debt. There was no set list of checks that 
TFS had to do, but it could take into account a number of different things such as the loan 
amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the guarantors overall 
financial circumstances.
I considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and what it 
means for Miss Ts complaint. In doing so, I asked some key questions:
Did TFS obtain Miss Ts properly informed consent to become guarantor for the 
loan?
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss T 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower did 
not? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the 
time?
Ultimately, did TFS make a fair lending decision when it accepted Miss T as loan 
guarantor
Has TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
TFS says it had telephone conversations with Miss T to discuss her becoming guarantor for 
Miss Bs loan - as well as contact online. Miss T had to take steps during the process to 
actively confirm that she was willing to act as loan guarantor. I thought Miss T did agree to 
guarantee the loan. Miss T says she thought she was just being asked to provide a 
character reference. But looking at the information overall, I thought its likely that she 
understood that she might be called upon to repay the loan, if Miss B didnt meet the loan 
repayments herself. Miss T had complained that she felt pressured at the time, but shes not 
explained why she felt this and Id not seen anything to suggest that TFS pressured her into 
becoming a guarantor or that it was reasonably aware that she might be feeling pressured 
by the borrower.
TFS says that, based on the information Miss T provided and what it found in its checks, 
there was nothing to suggest that Miss T wouldnt be able to afford the loan, if she was 
called upon to make the repayments.
But in the circumstances, I didnt think the checks TFS carried out were proportionate. The 
information that Miss T provided about her financial position would seem to suggest she 
could have covered the loan repayment each month, if called to do so. But TFS was aware 
from its credit check that Miss T already had a number of existing credit commitments. Miss 
T had also told TFS that she was a guarantor on another loan but she couldnt remember 
much about this, and even though she thought it might be nearly paid off I think TFS should 
have looked into this further. Given the amount being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
length of the loan term, I think TFS should reasonably have taken steps to further investigate 
some of the information that Miss T was providing - in order to satisfy itself that she could 
sustainably repay the loan, if required.
But even though I thought that TFS shouldve carried out better checks at the time, it doesnt 
automatically follow that TFS was wrong to accept Miss T as guarantor for the loan.
Miss T provided statements from her joint account around the time she guaranteed the loan 
but understandably she wasnt able to provide bank statements from her sole account from 
that time. However, TFS provided us with copies of the bank statements from Miss Ts sole 
account that she submitted as part of her application to become the loan guarantor.
So overall, I thought I could determine what TFS might reasonably have discovered, if it had 
carried out more thorough checks when Miss T applied to become the loan guarantor.
Miss T told us she thinks she wasnt earning at the time and she sent some information from 
HMRC. But the bank statements from Miss Ts sole account shows monthly payments from 
the company that are listed on Miss Ts guarantor application form as being her employer. 
So I think its likely that she was employed at the time.
Miss Ts sole account shows a number of transfers in and out of the account to herself  
which tallies with what shes told us about transferring monies into her joint account. Neither 
Miss Ts sole account or her joint account appeared to be regularly overdrawn leading up to 
the loan, which suggests she was managing her accounts carefully. There is no apparent 
evidence on either account of serious gambling nor are there a significant number of 
returned requests for payment  both of which might have suggested to the lender that this 
consumer was facing severe financial difficulties. It is difficult to confirm Miss Ts regular 
household expenses as these appear to have been paid mostly from the joint account. But 
her financial circumstances overall appear to broadly reflect what she told TFS at the time.
I accepted what Miss T told us about her financial difficulties. But I had to consider what TFS 
would have discovered at the time, if it had done what I consider to be proportionate checks, 
and whether this should reasonably have led it to conclude that it ought to decline her 
application to guarantee Miss Bs loan. I could not fairly say, even if TFS had carried out 
better checks, that it should have reasonably concluded that Miss T was having serious 
problems managing her money. Or that she would be unable to afford the loan repayments 
and therefore it ought to decline her application to be loan guarantor.
I said I was sorry that Miss T has struggled to repay Miss Bs loan, but I couldnt fairly 
conclude that TFS shouldnt have accepted her application as loan guarantor or that it acted in a way that was irresponsible at the time. And taking everything into account I could not 
say, in the circumstances, that I think TFS had acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss 
T. So I didnt intend to uphold the complaint.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. I havent seen any 
further information from TFS and the deadline for any further comments passed some time 
ago.
Miss T doesnt agree with my provisional decision. She says that around the time she 
applied to be the guarantor for Miss Bs loan with TFS, she was also acting as a guarantor 
on four other loans as well. And that she couldnt afford to guarantee all the loans. 
I would like to thank Miss T for responding to my provisional decision and for her comments 
which I have taken into account when coming to my final decision - along with all the other 
evidence and arguments presented by both parties in this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered what Miss T has said in response to my provisional decision. 
Miss T offered to send us further information about the other loans she was guaranteeing. 
She hasnt done so and as Ive explained, the deadline for providing further information has 
passed. But even if she had provided information about Miss Bs other loans, I dont think it 
would have made a difference to my view of this complaint. 
TFS says it asked Miss T if she was a guarantor on any other loans and she said that she 
was and that the monthly instalment was around £100. TFS says that Miss T said she hadnt 
had to make any payments, couldnt remember who the loan was with, but she did know that 
it was nearly all paid off. 
Whilst I thought TFS ought to have found out more information about it, it seems likely to me 
that Miss T did not tell TFS about the full extent of her guarantor commitments at the time. I 
dont know the dates when Miss T agreed to guarantee these other loans or whether these 
agreements had been entered into before or after Miss T agreed to guarantee the TFS loan. 
But from what Ive seen,  even if TFS had carried out proportionate checks at the time, I 
cant fairly say that it is likely it would have found out about Miss Ts other commitments as a 
loan guarantor, unless she herself disclosed this information to TFS. I dont think TFS would 
have been alerted to Miss Ts other guarantor commitments from either her sole or joint bank 
statements or from its credit report. As I explained in my provisional decision, I think Miss T 
was aware at the time that being a guarantor meant she might have to repay the loan if her 
work colleague failed to do so. I appreciate why Miss T feels that she couldnt afford to act 
as guarantor for the TFS loan, but she doesnt seem to have shared the extent of her other 
commitments as a guarantor for Miss B when she applied to TFS. So taking everything into 
account, I cant fairly say TFS ought to have been aware that she might be over committed 
financially when it accepted her application.
I am sorry that Miss T has found herself in such a difficult financial position. Ive thought very 
carefully about all the evidence and considered all of Miss Ts additional comments, but they 
have not changed my view of this complaint. So I confirm the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision, and I do not uphold the complaint. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against TFS 
Loans Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman