DRN-3881381
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited  trading as RSA dealt 
with his claim on his home insurance.
Mr C is the policyholder, but he has been represented by his son throughout this claim and 
complaint. However for ease of reading Ive referred just to Mr C throughout. But all 
references to Mr C include the actions of both the policyholder and his son.   
What happened
Mr C had a home insurance policy through his bank. In 2014 he made a claim for 
subsidence to his kitchen extension on the policy. At this time the policy was underwritten by 
a different insurer that I will refer to as A. A said the cause of damage was moisture 
extracted by two nearby trees. To rectify the problem it installed a re-hydration channel. It 
charged Mr C a £1,000 excess. 
However by 2016 cracks had appeared again. A investigated and found some damaged 
drains which it fixed. It also found that the roof of the extension was damaged but said this 
wouldnt be covered, so Mr C paid to have this fixed. 
In 2018 Mr C discovered further cracking to the extension and he contacted A again. As loss 
adjuster came out to investigate however later informed Mr C that his policy was now with 
RSA and the loss adjuster didnt work with it. 
In September 2018 the claim was passed to RSA. It appointed its own loss adjusters who 
inspected the cracks and said it thought they were due to root induced clay shrinkage 
caused by a nearby tree. RSA instructed Mr C to remove the tree. It also said that as the 
subsidence was due to a different cause than his original claim, it would be dealt with as a 
new claim. It therefore requested a second excess of £1,000 to be paid.
Mr C had the tree removed but he wasnt convinced this was the cause. In 2021 he 
instructed his own engineer to review the extension. They reported that the issues in the 
original claim hadnt been addressed properly and these still needed to be rectified.
Following this RSA instructed a further report that identified problems with the drains. 
Following a site visit it also concluded that movement of the extension was due to the fact it 
was built on made ground and it would need to be demolished and rebuilt. However it 
maintained its position that the claim was separate from the original one and therefore a 
second excess would apply. 
Mr C made a complaint as he didnt think it was fair that he was being charged a second 
excess when his report had shown the damage was related to the original claim. He also 
said RSA had taken a long time to deal with his claim.
RSA responded but it said a second excess would still apply. However it offered £500 
compensation that it said it would review again once the claim was resolved. Unhappy with 
this, Mr C brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended Mr Cs complaint be upheld. She 
said based on evidence available she was persuaded that the claim was a continuation of Mr 
Cs original claim so she didnt think it fair that RSA charge an additional excess. She also 
thought it should pay Mr Cs costs for the tree removal, expert reports and fixing his roof as 
part of the claim, including 8% interest on these amounts. Finally she thought RSAs offer of 
£500 was fair for the delays caused up to when it issued its final response in March 2022. 
Mr C didnt think the compensation was enough to reflect the impact of RSAs poor handling. 
RSA didnt agree that the claim should be dealt with as a continuation of the first claim. It 
said if it were then it would be for A to deal with the repairs rather than RSA. It also thought it 
should have the opportunity to obtain information and reports from the first claim in order for 
that decision to be properly made. It asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Excess
While it isnt possible to know for certain if the damage is linked to Mr Cs original claim, I 
think based on the evidence available it is most likely that it is. 
There have been several suggestions for the cause of the damage however following Mr Cs 
report in 2021 RSA has agreed there is further damage to the drains, which was the focus of 
the 2016 claim. 
And most recently RSA has concluded that the cause of the continued cracking to the 
extension is the fact its built on made ground and because of this it needs to be rebuilt. 
Throughout Mr Cs claim the damage has been focused in the kitchen extension. If RSA has 
now found the underlying cause to be the ground it is built on, it is likely that this was the 
underlying cause throughout. While possibly also influenced by other factors. 
So based on the evidence, I am think on the balance of probabilities the cause of the 
subsidence Mr C is now experiencing is linked to the initial claim. I therefore dont think it fair 
that it is registered as a new claim or that a second excess is charged. 
RSA has said that if the cause of the current problem is linked to the original claim then it 
should be for A to deal with it as a continuation of that claim. While I agree with it in principal, 
I dont agree its fair to apply this here. 
Mr C first raised the issue of paying an additional excess in 2019. And RSA has since then 
considered whether the claim was a continuation in order to decide if an excess would apply. 
Ive read through its correspondence and claim notes and at no point did it tell Mr C that he 
may need to refer back to A for cover. Even though the conversation about whether the 
claim was a continuation or not has been ongoing for a long time. Due to this I dont think its 
fair for RSA to only now refer Mr C back to A after dealing with the claim for nearly four 
years. 
For this reason I think a fair and reasonable resolution is for RSA to deal with the claim. 
However it should be registered as a continuation of the previous claim and no additional 
excess should be charged. 
Mr Cs costsThroughout the claim Mr C has had to cover a number of costs himself in order for the claim 
to move forward, which I think RSA should cover.
Firstly the roof to the kitchen extension was badly damaged and this wasnt covered under 
the original claim as the damage was deemed to be due to wear and tear. However the 
report from Mr Cs roofer stated:
After inspection of the rear kitchen flat roof, we found that the roof had dipped badly to the
area of the rear of the extension and was holding a more than acceptable amount of
rainwater.
On closer inspection we found that there had been a previous subsidence issue which
caused the roof to dip and allow rainwater to penetrate the roof covering a lot quicker than
is normal.
As there are no other expert opinions that provide any evidence to dispute this, Im 
persuaded that the damage to the roof was a direct result of the subsidence. I therefore 
agree that RSA should reimburse Mr C for the cost of the roof repairs and the cost of the 
report that proved the cause.
Mr C also had to pay for the cost of removing a tree at the direction of RSA. As part of a 
subsidence claim, wed expect an insurer to provide a solution that is effective and long 
lasting. And in this case, RSA considered that in order to do that, the root cause of the 
problem had to be removed in order for repairs to take place. If action needs to be taken in 
order for the subsidence to be resolved effectively, and therefore for the repair to be effective 
and long lasting, this service considers it fair and reasonable that the associated costs are 
included as part of the claim. I therefore agree that RSA should reimburse Mr C for the cost 
of the tree removal.
Finally, in 2021 Mr C felt he needed to instruct his own report into the cause of the damage. 
And off the back of his report RSA instructed further drain investigations that led to the 
discovery of drain issues that hadnt been uncovered and its decision that the damage was 
due to the extension being built on made ground. As the report led to a change in RSAs 
position, I agree that it should reimburse Mr C for the cost of the report.
As Mr C has been without the money for all these costs, I also agree RSA should pay 8% 
simple interest on each of them, from the date Mr C paid for them up until the date RSA 
makes payment.
Compensation
This complaint has been dealt with by a representative throughout. And as Mr C is the 
policyholder, I can only consider the impact RSAs actions have had on Mr C himself rather 
than on his representative who isnt a beneficiary of the policy. 
Having said this, from reading the claim correspondence and notes, I am persuaded that 
RSA has caused some significant delays throughout the claim. Including by failing to identify 
the cause of the subsidence earlier which has resulted in Mr Cs representative having to 
arrange his own reports and repairs. This will have caused Mr C distress and inconvenience 
as the claim hasnt been moved forward as quickly as it should have, so repairs to his 
property have still not been completed. Due to this, I agree with our investigators conclusion 
that £500 compensation is a fair amount in the circumstances up to RSAs final response 
letter in March 2022.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited  trading as RSA to: 
Reimburse Mr C for the amounts paid for the tree removal, roof report, roof repairs and  
the expert engineer report on receipt of evidence of the amounts paid.
Pay 8% simple interest on each of these amounts from the date Mr C paid for them until 
the date RSA makes payment.
Pay Mr C £500 compensation.
Treat the current claim as a continuation of the original claim and dont charge an 
additional £1,000 excess. If Mr C has already paid this then he should be reimbursed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman