DRN-2855284
The complaint
Mr F complains about the quality of a vehicle acquired on finance with Moneybarn No.1 
Limited. 
  
What happened
Mr F entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for a car in May 2019. In 
July 2019 Mr F noticed the engine management light (EML) was illuminated and took the 
vehicle to a local garage. 
They diagnosed a problem with the catalytic convertor, and this was replaced. Mr F claimed 
on a warranty product, separate to his agreement with Moneybarn, for the cost of these 
repairs. 
In September 2019 the EML came on again, and Mr F took the vehicle to the same garage, 
who diagnosed a problem with the EGR valve. This was replaced with Mr F claiming the cost 
of this from his warranty product. 
Mr F took the vehicle to a manufacturer approved dealership twice more in September 2019 
due to the EML light being illuminated. The ad blue was replaced, and Mr F paid £168 in 
labour and £29.99 in parts for repairs. 
Mr F complained to Moneybarn in October 2019 because he was unhappy about the 
ongoing problems with the vehicle and the inconvenience of having multiple repairs 
completed. 
Moneybarn arranged for an inspection of Mr Fs vehicle and responded to his complaint in 
November 2019. They said that because Mr F hadnt contacted them or the dealership that 
supplied the vehicle, they hadnt had a chance to assess or repair the vehicle. They didnt 
think they were responsible for the fault now that unauthorised repairs had been attempted. 
Unhappy with this, Mr F bought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr G. They thought that the inspection carried out by Moneybarn showed that the 
fault was present at the point of sale, therefore Moneybarn were responsible for the fault. 
They recommended that Mr F should be allowed his final right to reject the vehicle. 
Moneybarn didnt accept our investigators view. They say any fault now should lie with the 
garage that attempted repairs, and as they hadnt authorised these, they couldnt be held 
responsible for the fault. 
Mr F asked if he could have the car repaired or swapped, rather than reject it. Our 
investigator put this to Moneybarn, but received no response, so the case has been passed 
to me for a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a conditional sale agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. Moneybarn as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £14,000. It was four years old 
and had travelled approximately 90,000 miles at the time of supply. When a person acquires 
a used car like Mr Fs, its reasonable to say that the expectation of quality is lower than that 
of a new or younger/lower mileage second-hand car. The price for the vehicle is lower, and 
this is reflective of the fact that the car is more road worn. The chance of encountering a 
serious issue sooner, is higher.
Although Mr F purchased a second hand, higher mileage vehicle, I think a reasonable 
person would expect there to be no current or ongoing faults with a vehicle when they 
acquire it.
Moneybarn arranged for an inspection of the vehicle in November 2019. That inspection 
concluded that the EML was illuminated, and a fault code found which was related to the 
exhaust system. It says further investigation will be required to confirm the exact cause of 
the issues, but that it considers that the issues were present at the point of sale. 
Mr F experienced problems with the EML being illuminated shortly after acquiring the 
vehicle, and a number of attempts to repair this fault have not been successful. The expert 
evidence in this case points to there being a fault with the vehicle before it was sold to Mr F, 
and Im persuaded by that expert evidence. It seems more likely that there was a fault with 
the vehicle at the time that it was supplied to Mr F. So, Im satisfied that the vehicle was not 
of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied. 
Having made that finding I need to decide what, if anything, Moneybarn should do to put 
things right. 
Moneybarn say that Mr F had unauthorised repairs completed to the vehicle, and so they 
shouldnt now be responsible if these have failed. 
Mr F had use of a warranty product to cover the cost of these repairs, and I dont think it was 
unreasonable for him to have made use of this when the EML first illuminated. It was only 
when the fault kept occurring that Mr F thought there mightve been a problem with the 
vehicle at the time it was sold to him, and so this is when he contacted Moneybarn. I havent seen any evidence which suggests that the repairs undertaken by Mr F werent 
necessary, or that Moneybarn wouldnt have agreed to these repairs had Mr F contacted 
them. 
Moneybarn say that the inspection indicates that the repairs undertaken by the garage may 
have failed to adequately address the fault, and so the repairing garage should be 
responsible for the continuing issues. 
I havent seen any evidence that the continuing faults with the vehicle were caused by the 
repairs undertaken by Mr F. It seems more likely that the repairs have failed to identify the 
cause of, and therefore remedy, the fault that was already present in the vehicle. 
So, although Mr F didnt contact Moneybarn at the outset, I find this doesnt remove their 
responsibility for the satisfactory quality of the vehicle at the time of supply.
Mr F has provided evidence of substantial repairs being required to the vehicle shortly after 
he acquired it, which started with the EML illuminating. Although various repairs have been 
completed, the EML remains illuminated. The inspection concludes that further investigation 
will be required to confirm the exact cause of the fault. Its not clear what repairs might be 
needed to fix the fault, whether any repairs will be successful, will be long lasting, or how 
long they might take to complete.
So, its likely that Mr F will be put to significant inconvenience, in addition to that which hes 
already experienced, in arranging a repair when its not clear that it will be successful and 
further work and time might then be required to return the car to a satisfactory state. It would 
also mean that Mr F has to wait for an unknown period of time before he is able to drive his 
car again. 
Mr F has told us that hed like Moneybarn to repair the vehicle, because hes not sure hell 
be able to obtain finance for a new vehicle. I understand Mr Fs feelings on the matter, and 
Ive considered whether a repair is a fair direction to make in the circumstances. 
If I were to direct a repair to Mr Fs vehicle, Im not persuaded this will provide him with a 
remedy under the Consumer Rights Act for the reasons set out above. Where the cause of 
the fault is as yet undetermined, its also possible that itd be disproportionate for Moneybarn 
to attempt to repair the vehicle. That is, it might cost them more to try and return the vehicle 
to a satisfactory condition than to allow Mr F to reject the vehicle. 
All things considered, I think Mr F should be allowed his final right to reject the car. This 
means that the car is collected from Mr F, the finance agreement is brought to an end, and 
Mr F has his £1,284 deposit refunded (plus interest). The agreement and any adverse 
information should be removed from Mr Fs credit file.
Mr F is free to decide whether to reject my decision, which might allow him the opportunity to 
negotiate repairs with Moneybarn instead of rejecting the car. 
Finally, Mr F has been put to the inconvenience of having to arrange for diagnostics and 
multiple repairs to his car. Moneybarn should pay Mr D £100 compensation in recognition of 
this.   My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Moneybarn No.1 Limited to: 
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr F
Refund Mr Fs deposit of £1248. 
Pay Mr F £100 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Remove the finance agreement and any adverse information from Mr Fs credit file. 
Moneybarn should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
If Moneybarn considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr F a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.   
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman