DRN-3266981
The complaint
Mr L complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited caused delays in progressing his 
claim on his motor insurance policy. He wants compensation for his trouble and upset.
 
What happened
Mr L was involved in a road incident and he made a claim. The other insurer was slow in 
responding to Acromas allegations and evidence. The other insurer eventually accepted 
liability. But Acromas couldnt send its claim costs to the other insurer because of a system 
error. And it also couldnt update Mr Ls record on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE). Mr L said the delay meant he couldnt shop around at renewal. Acromas offered Mr L 
£75 compensation. But he was unhappy with this. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Acromas 
had been unable to progress Mr Ls claim for five months due to the system error. He 
thought this had also caused delays in Acromas instructing solicitors to pursue its costs and 
recording the claim on CUE. He thought its communications with Mr L had been lacking and 
confusing. He thought this had caused Mr L avoidable trouble and upset. And so he thought 
Acromas should increase its offer of compensation to £300. 
Acromas replied that it hadnt been able to send its outlay to the other insurer until it had 
admitted liability. So it thought there was a two months delay, not five months. Claims were 
still not being recorded on CUE, but it said this had no effect on Mr L. It thought the 
recommended compensation was very unfair. It offered to increase the compensation offer 
to £150. But Mr L remained unhappy with this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Acromas is required to handle claims in a timely manner and without avoidable delays. It 
said that it had caused a delay of two months in sending its outlay to the other insurer after it 
admitted liability. But the system error also meant that Acromas wasnt able to settle the 
invoice for repair costs and so it couldnt bill the other insurer earlier. I think this then led to a 
delay in it appointing a solicitor to pursue the payment. 
So, I think without the system error, the repairs bill could have been settled and solicitors 
could have been appointed earlier if the other insurer hadnt paid Acromas its outlay. And so 
Im satisfied that there was a five month delay in Acromas being able to progress the claim 
due to its system error. 
Im also satisfied that Acromas also gave Mr L confusing information about the effect the 
status of his claim would have on his premium at renewal. He was told, firstly, that his No 
Claims Bonus (NCB) was allowed and that the other insurer had accepted liability. And that 
this would not affect his premium at renewal. But he was later told the other insurer had 
been billed and the claim was still open, and this had affected his renewal premium. I think 
this must have been very confusing and worrying for Mr L. 
So the impact of Acromas errors for Mr L was:
He was caused avoidable worry and frustration by the delay as he wanted the claim 
settled.
Mr Ls claim wasnt correctly recorded on CUE as it should be.
Mr L had to spend time and effort contacting Acromas for updates when he shouldnt 
have needed to do so. I think this caused him avoidable frustration. 
Mr L was caused confusion by Acromas communications about his claim. 
Acromas offered to increase its compensation payment to Mr L for the trouble and upset its 
errors caused. But I dont think £150 is sufficient in the circumstances. As our investigator 
has explained, £300 compensation is in keeping with our published guidance. So I think this 
amount is fair and reasonable compensation for the impact Acromas errors had on Mr L.
Putting things right
I require Acromas Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr L £225 further compensation (£300 
in total) for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Acromas Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman