DRN-1789657
 
The complaint
Mrs E and the estate of her late husband, Mr S, complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), 
trading as Halifax, mis-sold Mr S payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr S bought a PPI policy when he took out a Halifax mortgage in 2003. The policy was sold 
in a meeting at a Halifax branch. It was part of a wider insurance package called a
Total Mortgage Protection Policy (TMPP). The PPI element of this package gave Mr S cover 
for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think that Mrs E and the estate of Mr S' complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs E and the estate of Mr S disagreed, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
The sale took place a long time ago. And, perhaps understandably, BoS doesnt still have 
much of the paperwork completed at the time. But its provided a copy of a declaration which 
Mr S signed when he took out his mortgage. This includes a section which refers to the 
TMPP in terms which would seem to suggest that he could have taken out a mortgage 
without buying this policy. Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage offer letter which would 
have been sent to Mr S at the time. And theres no mention of PPI being required as a part 
of this mortgage offer in the letter.
BoS has also provided screenshots from its computer systems which record the answers 
that Mr S gave to questions he was asked at the time about his personal circumstances. 
These were to check his eligibility and suitability for the TMPP. And Ive previously seen 
copies of the paperwork BoS used at around the time of this sale and know that its normal 
sales process would have been to discuss PPI cover with a customer and to then obtain 
their consent to the policy being set up for them.
Mrs E says that the PPI was presented to her and Mr S at the branch meeting as part of a 
mortgage package and not as a separate, optional product. So they thought Mr S had to 
agree to take out the policy to get his mortgage. Its possible that the BoS advisor did unfairly 
mislead Mr S and Mrs E in the way Mrs E has described. But I need to bear in mind that this 
all took place a long time ago and memories of such discussions do tend to fade over time. 
So I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that this is what happened, based only on 
what Mrs E thinks she remembers now.On balance, and based on the limited information now available, I think its more likely than 
not that Mr S was aware at the time that the PPI was optional and that he actively decided to 
take out this cover. But I can understand why Mrs E might not be able to recall this now.
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr S. And from what Ive seen, I think thats most likely 
to have been the case. This means that it had to ensure that the policy was suitable for him. 
I dont know all the steps it took to do this. But from what I know of his circumstances at the 
time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
 
Mr S appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
limitations and exclusions.
 
Mrs E says the PPI cover provided to Mr S on his mortgage wasnt necessary given 
their circumstances at the time. She says that Mr S was eligible for generous sick 
pay from his employer and they had some savings that could have been used to 
make   Mr S mortgage repayments if he was unable to work. Mrs E also says that 
they could have relied on her income and support from relatives in need. But this 
policy would have paid out in addition to any other means of repaying the mortgage 
available at the time. It could have covered Mr S mortgage repayments for up to 
twenty-four months if he couldnt work because of an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment, where ones home is 
potentially at risk if repayments cant be made. So I still think that Mr S would have 
valued the extra security given by the policy.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable. And as the premium was paid 
monthly, Mr S could have cancelled the policy if it no longer met his needs. 
 
BoS also needed to give Mr S enough information for him to decide whether or not to take 
out the policy. I think its quite possible that the information he received could have been 
better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable 
for him, I dont think better information would have changed his mind about buying it. I think 
hed still have thought the policy gave him useful protection at an affordable price.
So, whilst I know this will be disappointing for Mrs E, I dont think that Mr S lost out by 
anything that BoS may have done wrong when it sold him this policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and the 
estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman