DRN-3840853
The complaint
Mr B complained that HSBC Life (UK) Ltd (HSBC) did not reinstate his critical illness policy 
after it lapsed because of non-payment of premiums. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview of key events here. 
Mr B took out a 25-year decreasing term critical illness policy, underwritten by HSBC, in 
November 2015. The sum assured was £247,500, with a monthly premium of £88.37. Mr B 
also took out a life assurance policy at the same time, which he placed in trust, and which is 
being dealt with by this Service as a separate complaint.  
The policy premium due at the end of September 2020 for the critical illness policy was not 
paid. Mr Bs HSBC bank account, out of which the direct debit to pay the monthly premium 
was taken, had been closed and so the direct debit was cancelled. The last premium was 
paid on 27 August 2020. 
HSBC wrote to Mr B on 30 September 2020 to let him know the direct debit had been 
cancelled and the September premium was outstanding. It told Mr B that if a second 
premium was missed then the policy would automatically lapse, and cover would cease.
HSBC again wrote to Mr B on 29 October 2020 and said two premiums were now 
outstanding. It said the policy had lapsed and no cover was being provided. HSBC said if it 
received the outstanding amount within seven days then the policy could be reinstated. It 
also said it would consider reinstating the policy for up to one year from the date of the first 
outstanding premium, subject to a satisfactory declaration of health being completed and 
outstanding premiums being paid. 
Mr B contacted HSBC several times in November 2020. He complained about the policy 
having lapsed and about being told payment for the outstanding premiums couldnt be made 
over the phone and had to be made by either direct debit or cheque. 
Mr B contacted HSBC in July 2021 to enquire about reinstating the policy. HSBC sent him 
the necessary documentation at the end of July 2021, although Mr B said he didnt receive it.
HSBC told Mr B in late September 2021 that it would allow the policy to be reinstated subject 
to receiving the completed documents and premium arrears by 13 October 2021. It said after 
this date no further reinstatement requests would be considered. When HSBC didnt receive 
the completed reinstatement pack by the deadline, it wrote to Mr B in late October 2021 and 
said it would not be able to consider his request to reinstate the policy. 
Mr B again contacted HSBC in mid-November 2021. It was clear there were difficulties with 
communicating by post, so both parties agreed Mr B would visit his local HSBC branch to 
complete the paperwork. Following the visit, HSBC told Mr B it would write to him once it had 
assessed his request to reinstate the policy.  
HSBC wrote to Mr B on 8 December 2021. It told him the premium arrears for both policies  
totalling £1,680  would be deducted from his bank account on 15 December 2021. 
HSBC wrote to Mr B on 24 December 2021 and said the direct debit had been returned 
unpaid by his bank. It said the premium arrears for the critical illness policy were £1325.55. 
HSBC wrote to Mr B again on 11 January 2022 and said that as the payment for the 
premium arrears couldnt be taken, the policy could not be reinstated. 
Mr B complained to HSBC and said he wasnt told that a decision had been made to 
reinstate the policies and take a payment for the outstanding premiums. He said he was told 
he would be notified well in advance of the payment being taken. At this point Mr B also 
complained that he was discriminated against because of his ethnicity and mental health 
issues. Mr B asked to be allowed to keep the policies or, if not, to have all premiums paid to 
date refunded. Mr B brought his complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator liaised with HSBC and it was agreed that Mr Bs complaint about his 
protection policy could be looked at in its entirety by this Service. But our Investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He said HSBC had treated Mr B fairly during the time he was trying to 
reinstate his policy and had informed Mr B when it intended to take the total premium arrears 
from his bank account. 
Mr B was unhappy with what our Investigator said and so this came to me for a decision. 
I contacted HSBC and asked for clarification about the attempts made by it to take the 
premium arrears in December 2021 and clarification about whether it had considered 
offering Mr B a payment holiday, which it provided. I am now in a position to issue a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr B thinks HSBC acted unfairly when it didnt reinstate his 
critical illness policy, which had lapsed in October 2020 following non-payment of premiums. 
Mr B also complained that HSBC didnt give him any notice before it tried to take the total 
amount of the premium arrears  £1,680, of which £1,325.55 related to the critical illness 
policy  from his bank account in December 2021. 
Its my understanding that Mr Bs policy lapsed because the direct debits that had been set 
up to pay premiums were cancelled following the closure of Mr Bs HSBC current account. 
Mr B also brought his complaint about the closure of his HSBC current account to this 
Service and that complaint has been looked at separately. Our Service is also looking 
separately at the complaint Mr B raised about his life assurance policy, which is held in trust. 
So my decision will only address the cancellation of the critical illness policy and HSBCs 
decision not to reinstate it. 
Ive first of all looked at whether HSBC acted fairly and in line with its own terms and 
conditions when it cancelled Mr Bs critical illness policy. Theres no dispute here about 
whether the premiums were paid  both parties agree they werent. The policy terms allow 
HSBC to let the policy lapse for non-payment of premiums. I would expect any insurer to let a consumer know if direct debits have been returned unpaid 
and so premiums had been missed. This gives a consumer the opportunity to prevent the 
policy from lapsing.  
I can see that HSBCs system notes indicate that a letter was sent to Mr B, using the correct 
address, in September 2020 informing him of the first missed premium and letting him know 
that the policy would lapse if a second premium payment was missed. The system notes 
show a second letter was sent in October 2020, once the second premium payment was 
missed. This letter also said the policy had lapsed and outlined the steps that needed to be 
taken by Mr B to have it reinstated. So Im satisfied that HSBC acted fairly and in line with 
the policy terms when it stopped providing cover for Mr B following non-payment of 
premiums.   
HSBC and Mr B were in contact between July and December 2021 about reinstating the 
policy. At the end of December 2021, once it had tried unsuccessfully to take the full amount 
of premium arrears, HSBC decided it would not do anything else to try and reinstate the 
policy. So Ive looked at whether HSBC acted fairly in the way it dealt with Mr Bs 
reinstatement request.   
The terms of Mr Bs policy say that if the policy has lapsed because of non-payment of 
premiums, then the policy holder may make a request, within 12 months of the due date of 
the first unpaid premium, for the policy to be reinstated. It also says HSBC is under no 
obligation to reinstate the policy, but if it does then all of the unpaid premiums due if the 
policy had not lapsed will be immediately payable, together with the next premium due. 
So this term, which I think is clearly worded and reasonable, makes it clear that once a 
policy lapses HSBC doesnt have to reinstate it. Should it decide to consider reinstatement, 
then this is conditional on, amongst other things, premium arrears being paid in full.  
In Mr Bs case, the date of the first unpaid premium was 28 September 2020 and this means 
Mr B made his request for reinstatement within the year allowed. 
I think its clear Mr B was keen to reinstate the policy, given the extent of his communication 
with HSBC. There were difficulties with paperwork being sent and received, so Mr B visited 
an HSBC branch in around December 2021 and completed the reinstatement paperwork. 
Mr B told this Service that he had expected HSBC to give him sufficient notice before taking 
the premium arrears from his bank account. He doesnt think it did this. I would certainly 
expect HSBC to have given him proper notice, as by December 2021 the arrears for both 
policies amounted to a significant sum of money.
However, I can see that HSBC sent a letter to Mr B on 8 December 2021 letting him know it 
would be collecting an amount of £1,680 from his current account on or around 
15 December 2021. I realise that Mr B says he didnt receive this letter, but Im satisfied 
HSBC sent it to him. HSBC doesnt have any control over whether a letter sent to a 
consumer is delivered to them. For HSBC to be considered to have fulfilled its obligation to 
let Mr B know when the money was coming out, its enough that it can show it sent the letter. 
So Im satisfied HSBC gave Mr B notice of when the total premium arrears were due to be 
taken out of his bank account. 
HSBC also tried to take the payment out of Mr Bs account on a second occasion  a week 
after the first attempt  but this also failed. It then decided not to take any further steps to 
look to reinstate the policy and wrote to Mr B informing him of its decision. As I said, the policy terms state that reinstatement of the policy is conditional on the premium 
arrears being paid in full. So the policy terms allow HSBC to decline to reinstate the policy in 
the circumstances outlined above. Given that HSBC has acted in line with the terms, hasnt 
made any errors, and acted on Mr Bs initial request to look to have the policy reinstated, I 
dont think it acted unfairly when it decided to draw a line under this matter when it wasnt 
able to get full payment in December 2021 for the premium arrears. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr B, as its clear he wanted the policy reinstated. But I 
think HSBC acted fairly and within its own terms and conditions when it decided not to 
reinstate the policy. 
Mr B said he thought HSBC should have put a repayment plan in place so that the premium 
arrears could be paid off over time rather than all at once. But its important to note that 
HSBC are under no obligation to reinstate a plan once it lapses and that the relevant policy 
term says reinstatement is conditional on premium arrears being paid off in full. So while I 
appreciate why Mr B would have found a repayment plan helpful, HSBC arent obliged to 
take this step. For my part, I might ask HSBC to set up a repayment plan if I thought it had 
made an error that contributed to Mr B being in the difficult position he was in. But, based on 
the information Ive been provided with, I dont think it has. 
Mr B also thought HSBC should have given him a payment holiday back in 2020 when he 
missed the first two premium payments. Ive considered this, given that payment holidays for 
consumers were not unusual in 2020 because of the pandemic. I asked HSBC to clarify why 
this wasnt offered to him. 
HSBC told me that a payment holiday was considered internally after Mr B made a complaint 
in December 2020. It said that, because of the pandemic, consumers were generally offered 
a three month deferral option at that point in time. By the time HSBC was asked to consider 
this for Mr B, the September and October 2020 premiums had already been missed and the 
November 2020 premium was shortly due. HSBC said it was aware Mr B didnt have a bank 
account at that stage and there was no certainty he would open a bank account by the time 
premiums became payable again in December 2020. So it decided that the reinstatement 
process, which allowed him 12 months, was the only option. 
From what I can see, HSBC made its decision not to offer the repayment plan based on Mr 
Bs circumstances at the time. It opted for a course of action that it thought would put him in 
the position where he had time to sort out opening a new bank account, and once this had 
been done he would be in a position to request a reinstatement of the policy. I cant see that 
having a three month payment holiday to cover the missed premiums in September, October 
and November 2020 would have made a difference here. Without having a way to start 
paying the premiums again in December 2020, I think its more likely than not Mr B would 
have found himself in the same position, albeit later, of having the policy lapse when further 
premiums were missed. So I dont think that HSBCs decision not to offer a payment holiday 
has placed Mr B at a disadvantage. 
I can see that Mr B was concerned that HSBC was discriminating against him because of his 
ethnicity and mental health issues. Mr B said at one point that he felt HSBC made so many 
mistakes that they must be intentional. He was also concerned that his mental health was 
being mocked by HSBC members of staff. 
While I appreciate the difficult position Mr B finds himself in, its the case that HSBC were 
willing to take him through the process of trying to reinstate the policy. It was only when the 
premium arrears werent paid in December 2021, that it decided the policy should be allowed 
to lapse. Mr B was also concerned that his mental health was being mocked by HSBC members of staff, but I cant see that any of the actions taken by HSBC members of staff 
amounted to discriminatory behaviour. 
I think HSBC has dealt with Mr Bs reinstatement request fairly and as it would for any other 
customer and so, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont agree that its actions were 
discriminatory. I hope it helps Mr B to know that someone impartial and independent has 
looked into his concerns about discrimination. 
Mr B also complained about HSBC not accepting premium payments by phone in November 
2020. HSBC said it only accepted payments at that stage by direct debit or cheque. But Mr B 
didnt have a bank account then, and he said the pandemic made it difficult for him to open 
one.
I appreciate this must have been frustrating for Mr B, but as long as HSBC offered other 
reasonable ways to pay the premiums on the policy, then I wouldnt interfere with its decision 
not to accept payments over the phone.  While I know Mr B didnt have a bank account from 
which to arrange a direct debit or issue a cheque at the point in time that the policy first 
lapsed, he was able to open one later and make a request for reinstatement, so he hasnt 
been placed at a disadvantage here. 
Mr B also asked for a full refund of all premiums paid since the start of the policy if the policy 
couldnt be reinstated. But Im not asking HSBC to do that. This is because Mr B had the 
benefit of the policy until it lapsed in October 2020  if Mr B had become unwell while the 
policy was still in force and his condition was covered by the policy, then he would have 
been able to make a claim and have it assessed by HSBC in the usual way.  
I know my decision will disappoint Mr B, but I am not asking HSBC to take any further action 
here. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman