DRN-2953478
The complaint
Mr B complains that a loan given to him by Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 
Money (118) was unaffordable for him.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr B applied to 118 for a loan of £5,000 to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments
of £297.26. The total amount repayable was £7,134.24. The loan was agreed but Mr B says
118 didnt carry out enough checks to ensure he could afford the repayments. Had it done
so, he says the loan wouldnt have been approved as it was unaffordable for him. He says
hed had previous loans with 118 which hed complained about in the past, and it had agreed
were unaffordable. Hes since repaid this loan by refinancing it twice with 118.
118 says it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks in line with its usual process
and, based on the information Mr B had given it, had had no concerns about his ability to
afford the payments. It acknowledged that a previous complaint had been successful but
said his circumstances had improved since those loans had been agreed.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She noticed that Mr B had overstated his
monthly income by £2,000 on his application form. She said for that reason, in line with a
lending rules set out by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 118
should have refused the loan and asked 118 to put matters right.
Mr B accepted our investigators opinion, but 118 didnt. As there was no agreement, the
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I disagree with our investigator and dont think Mr Bs complaint should be 
upheld. I issued my provisional decision saying:
The rules which our investigator referred to are set out in the FCAs Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (CONC). Specifically, she referred to CONC 5.3.7. But at the time of Mr Bs 
application, this rule had been replaced by a similar rule  5.2A.36 which says, A firm must 
not accept an application for creditwhere it knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that 
the customer has not been truthful in completing the application in relation to information 
relevant to the creditworthiness assessment.
The income given by Mr B in his application was £5,583, whereas he received £3,584 per
month. Ive thought carefully about whether 118 should still have accepted his application
given this discrepancy. I dont think it was unreasonable to do so. I say this because while
the income completed on the application form was overstated, I suspect it was more a
typographical error rather than an attempt by Mr B to mislead 118.
118 got copies of Mr Bs bank statements - which showed his income - as part of its
creditworthiness checks and it used the correct amount in assessing his application. I think
that was a reasonable thing to do in these circumstances. I would take a different view, if a
lender believed an applicant had intentionally provided misleading information and still went
on to lend. I dont think that was the case here.
So Ive gone on to consider whether 118 carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to
satisfy itself that Mr B could afford the loan. To be clear, Im not considering the previous
loans Mr B had with 118 or two that hes taken since, as theyve been the subject of other
complaints. Im only considering the loan Ive given details of earlier.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website 
including the key relevant rules, guidance good industry practice and law. Ive considered
this approach when deciding this complaint.
118 needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend to Mr B irresponsibly by
carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks. I think there are key questions I need
to consider in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint:
Did 118 carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did 118 make a fair lending decision?
Did 118 act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way?
118 was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment. This assessment is
sometimes referred to as an affordability check or affordability assessment. The purpose
of the checks is for 118 to think about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause
difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr B. In other words, it wasnt about 118
assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the loan
repayments on Mr B.
118 had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B would be
able to repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that it had to do, but it
could take into account several different things such as the amount and length of the loan,
the amount of the monthly repayments and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Taking all that into account, I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally
to have been more thorough where:
a customer as a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make loan
payments of a set amount from a low level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to meet a
higher repayment for a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (because the total cost of the credit is likely to be
higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a longer period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (because of the risk of repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing has become or was becoming
unsustainable).
Did 118 carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
118 asked Mr B for details of his income and expenditure and got his permission to reviewhis credit file. It says it carried out a number of checks to confirm what Mr B had told it. 118
says the checks it carried out before agreeing to lend to Mr B were reasonable and
proportionate, and it believes the loans were affordable for him. As part of its assessment of
his application, 118 obtained banks statements from Mr B. These confirmed his monthly
income as approximately £3,584 and the account seems well run.
Mr Bs expenditure listed on his application form totals £655 for rent (he lived with his
parents), utilities, food and included £285 to creditors. 118 calculated he had a disposable
income of £2,929, so I can understand why 118 felt that the loan was affordable. But Mr B
said during his complaint, his expenditure actually totalled around £2,460. My calculations
show that he still had a disposable income in excess of £1,000 per month.
These figures didnt tie up fully with his bank statements, but much of the debits shown in
them was discretionary expenditure given Mr B was living with his parents, so I dont think
anything in what Ive said so far should have given 118 cause for concern.
Mr Bs credit file at the time showed he had credit account balances totalling £7,651, and no
new accounts being taken in the previous 12 months. There are no defaulted accounts or
County Court Judgements.
118 carried out its usual checks and as described above, found nothing which caused it any
concerns regarding Mr Bs ability to afford the loan hed requested. 118 wouldve been
aware that it had upheld Mr Bs previous complaint about loans it had given him. But it says
his circumstances had improved since then and more than a year had passed since hed
repaid the previous loans, so it was happy to lend to him again.
Mr B has told us that he was having gambling problems at the time he took this loan, but his
complaint to 118 didnt include this  simply he said the loan was unaffordable for him. Hes
given us bank statements which show a lot of transactions to and from gambling companies.
But the statements he provided to 118 to support his application show no gambling at all, so
I dont think it was unreasonable for it to be unaware of the problems Mr B was having.
Ive seen nothing at this stage to indicate the complaints about the previous loans was
upheld due to gambling which may have put 118 on notice of a problem. The final response
letter which dealt with the complaint covering those loans, simply refers to an unaffordable
lending issue. But even if I was persuaded the previous complaint was upheld as a result of
Mr B having a gambling problem, 17 months had passed since the complaint had been
raised. Given there was no gambling shown on the three months worth of bank statements it
received from Mr B, I think it would be reasonable for 118 to have thought the problems were
in the past.
I think the checks it carried out were reasonable and proportionate, and I wouldnt have
expected 118 to feel the need to investigate Mr Bs finances any further based on what he
had told them and the information it had found.
Did 118 make a fair lending decision?
Based on what he had told them and the information it had found, I think 118s decision to
lend to Mr B was fair.
Did 118 act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way?
Ive carefully read and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to thiscomplaint. Having done so, I dont think 118 has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards
Mr B in some other way.
118 didnt respond to my provisional decision but Mr B did. He said the bank statements he 
sent 118 didnt show gambling transactions but did show significant sums of money being 
transferred to his second bank account. Hes sent me a statement for that account which 
hed provided to us previously, that does show numerous gambling transactions. Mr B says 
he doesnt think 118 did enough to understand his financial situation.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Bs situation. I agree that the statements hes provided show 
what he says they do. In its final response on the complaint, 118 says the bank statements 
were reviewed by its underwriting team who felt the loan was affordable. The underwriters 
will have seen that Mr B was earning a good level of income and moving money in and out 
of his current account between accounts in his name. But I dont think thats particularly 
unusual in itself or, in the circumstances here, ought to have led 118 to ask further 
questions.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but having considered what hes said, Im not persuaded to 
change my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman