DRN-4066533
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage application Mrs D made to Nationwide Building Society. 
It was eventually turned down for policy reasons, but Mrs D complains that she should have 
been informed much sooner than she was. Mrs D is represented here by her mother, Mrs M.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs D and Nationwide Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with 
all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs D being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of what led to the complaint, 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
In the spring of 2022, Mrs D was planning to sell her existing home and buy Mrs Ms. The 
plan was that she would own the house, and she and her husband would move in alongside 
Mrs M, who would continue to live there. Mrs D asked Nationwide for a new mortgage, onto 
which it was intended to port the interest rate product from her existing Nationwide 
mortgage, a five-year fixed rate taken out in 2019.  This would have allowed Mrs D to avoid 
paying the early repayment charge (ERC) that was otherwise due if the existing mortgage 
was repaid during the product term.
Nationwide issued a decision in principle (DIP) and then began the process of underwriting 
the application formally. The application failed Nationwides underwriting process, and a 
decision not to lend was finalised on 14 June 2022. Unfortunately, due to a series of service 
failures (which Nationwide accepts entirely) Mrs D wasnt told of the decision until 
21 July 2022. Nationwide apologised and offered Mrs D £200 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the delay.
Mrs D brought the complaint to us; she told us that, believing Nationwide had agreed to offer 
the new mortgage, she had sold her existing home, repaid the mortgage on it (paying the 
ERC) and she and her husband moved in with her mother, but effectively as tenants. She 
wanted compensating for the ERC she paid, and because getting another mortgage would 
now be more expensive, as interest rates had gone up.
Our investigator asked Nationwide to increase its redress offer to £400. Nationwide agreed 
to do this, and the investigator told Mrs D that with that enhancement in place, she 
considered Nationwide had made a fair offer to resolve the complaint. Mrs D disagreed and 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
This is not a complaint where I have to decide fault; Nationwide has admitted liability and 
offered redress to put things right. What remains in dispute, and what I have to decide, is 
whether Nationwides offer is fair, or if it needs to do more.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes listening to recordings of Mrs Ds conversations with Nationwides mortgage 
advisor. Having done so, what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.
The decision not to lend was a matter for Nationwides commercial discretion, by reference 
to its lending criteria. My role is not to say what those criteria should be. Rather, its to 
assess whether the criteria were applied correctly in Mrs Ds case, and Im satisfied they 
were. Nationwides error was in not telling Mrs D of its decision for about five weeks. 
Nationwide initially offered £200 compensation for Mrs Ds time, trouble and upset, but 
increased that to £400 at the investigators recommendation. In all the circumstances, I find 
that to be fair, as far as it goes. 
The sticking point is over Mrs Ds claim for further losses that she believes are a 
consequence of the delay. In essence, these are the ERC shes already paid on redeeming 
the existing mortgage, and the cumulative extra monthly costs shed incur from taking a 
mortgage on a higher interest rate than the fixed rate she was hoping to port from the 
previous mortgage to the new one. 
The Bank of England Base Rate increased by 0.25% between 23 May (the date the DIP was 
issued) and 14 June (the date Nationwide finally rejected Mrs Ds application). A second 
increase of 0.25% occurred before Mrs D found out about the decision on 14 July. Each of 
these will have prompted a rise of broadly similar proportions in the rates being offered by 
lenders. 
Its possible that the cumulative effect of both increases was enough to push the cost of the 
mortgage Mrs D wanted beyond what she felt comfortable paying. But one of the increases 
happened before Nationwide rejected the application, so Mrs D would have been impacted 
by that even if there had been no delay in telling her. 
Also, even if a mortgage had gone ahead with Nationwide at the ported fixed rate, once that 
expired in 2024 there was always a likelihood that any new rate that succeeded it would be 
higher. So Mrs D needed to be prepared to pay a higher rate at some stage, and feel 
comfortable doing so. The prospect of future rates being higher was discussed extensively in 
the near three-hour conversation on 19 May 2022 in which the advised sale took place, such 
that the application could begin.
With the overall trend being upwards, Mrs Ds best opportunity for securing an alternative 
mortgage at an interest rate she felt comfortable paying, would have been to do so 
immediately she found out Nationwide had refused her application. When our investigator 
first started looking into the complaint, in November 2022, Mrs M told her that Mrs D hadnt 
applied for an alternate mortgage because interest rates had gone up. Thats understandable, and of course there has been a succession of further Bank of 
England Base Rate increases since then. So it may be that the moment has now passed for 
Mrs D. But it does mean the extra cost of borrowing is notional rather than real. I cant fairly 
order a business to pay compensation for something that might have happened but didnt.
The ERC is a cost that did happen; Mrs D redeemed her existing mortgage, and then didnt 
have a new mortgage to which the existing interest product could be ported. However, Im 
satisfied Mrs D was, or at least should have been, aware that the DIP Nationwide issued 
was no guarantee that a mortgage offer would be issued. So its not enough to conclude that 
Mrs Ds payment of the ERC flowed from Nationwide not telling her for five weeks that the 
mortgage application had failed. To find in her favour on this element of her claim, Id need 
to be persuaded that Nationwide wrongly caused her to believe the application had 
succeeded. 
Mrs M on Mrs Ds behalf said Nationwide had told her this in conversation. Having listened 
to the recordings of Mrs Ds conversations with Nationwide during the relevant period, 
theres nothing in any of them to suggest Nationwide told Mrs D her mortgage application 
had succeeded, or said anything that she could reasonably have inferred to that effect.
Mrs M has said there was another call, on either 20 or 21 May 2022. Nationwide hasnt been 
able to locate a recording from that time period, and theres nothing in its contact notes to 
suggest a call took place on either of those dates. In any event, I have to decide a complaint 
on the basis of the evidence that is available, and not the evidence that isnt. Where that 
evidence is incomplete or missing altogether, I have to decide what is most likely to have 
happened on the balance of probabilities. 
Even if there was a conversation with Nationwide on 20 or 21 May 2022  and to be clear, 
Im not persuaded there was  that would be a maximum of two days after the near three-
hour conversation that preceded the application starting. With such a short lapse of time, it 
seems unlikely that Nationwide would be in a position to say anything that caused Mrs D to 
think her mortgage application had been approved for lending. That aside, the dates Mrs M 
has referenced precede Nationwide issuing the DIP specifically informing her of the checks 
that would need to be carried out before it could approve a mortgage and make an offer.
Mrs M also told us Mrs D interpreted a call made to arrange a valuation on the proposed 
property as an indication the application had been approved. However, the DIP specifies that 
a valuation is one of the checks that would need to be satisfied before an application could 
be approved. The other observation Id make is that a call to arrange an appointment for the 
valuation is more likely t have been made by the valuer than by Nationwide. If so, that would 
explain why Nationwide has no record of a conversation from around 20/21 May 2022.
Mrs D committed to selling her home and repaying her existing mortgage without knowing if 
the new mortgage was going to be provided. I note that in the conversation of 19 May 2022, 
when asked about when she was likely to sell her existing home, Mrs D, after conferring with 
Mrs M, indicated that shed aim to sell and buy at around the same time, but one option she 
was considering was to sell her current home first. 
Putting all the above together, Im not persuaded Nationwide should pay anything further to 
Mrs D.My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, I direct 
Nationwide Building Society to pay Mrs D £400 compensation for her time, trouble and 
upset. I make no other order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman