DRN-1428428
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group in 
relation to his motor insurance policy. 
Reference to Adrian Flux includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Adrian Flux is a broker and it arranged a motor insurance policy for Mr S. In November 2018 
Mr Ss car was damaged by some wood that fell from the back of a lorry. The other party 
accepted liability. Mr S contacted Adrian Flux to report the matter and find out what would 
happen next. Mr S complains that the matter was referred to a claims management 
company, company B, and that confidential information was passed to company B without 
his consent. Mr S is also unhappy with the actions of company B but my decision is solely 
focused on the actions of Adrian Flux.
Adrian Flux said its call handler had taken all the details of the incident and given Mr S two 
clear options; either to claim on his policy or to claim directly from the third partys insurer. 
Mr S had chosen the latter option and the call handler had then explained the role of 
company B who he said would arrange for his car to be repaired and provide a hire car in the 
meantime. It said Mr S had confirmed he was happy for his case to be referred to 
company B. 
Our investigator confirmed he was only looking at whether the referral to company B had 
been made fairly. He concluded that Adrian Flux hadnt done anything wrong and said he 
wouldn't be recommending any further action.
As Mr S remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
Mr S said he was confused when he made the call to Adrian Flux and said he finds the 
situation hes now in to be wholly iniquitous. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I realise this will be disappointing to Mr S 
but, having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons.
Ive listened to the telephone call Mr S made to Adrian Flux in November 2018. The call 
handler explains who Mr S is speaking to and then explains the roles of the broker and the 
insurer. He says, as it was a non-fault incident, there were two options open to Mr S. He 
could make a claim on his own policy through his insurer, but would then have to pay an 
excess. Or he could claim directly against the third partys insurers. He says they can 
appoint company B who will pursue everything for him. Company B would cover the full 
costs of repair and sort out a hire car for him and then claim the costs from the third partys 
insurers. Mr S makes it very clear he wants to claim directly from the third party and confirms 
that hes happy to proceed on that basis. The call handler says company B would contact 
him later the same day. Having listened to the call, Im satisfied Mr S was given clear information about the options 
open to him and was given the opportunity to ask any questions he had. I recognise the 
insurance claims process can be confusing, particularly when several different companies 
are involved, as was the case here. Mr S says he was confused when he spoke to Adrian 
Flux and I can understand that as the call took place the day after the incident. But I dont 
think the call handler could have done very much more to have made the situation clear and 
explain the options open to Mr S. 
Mr S is also unhappy Adrian Flux passed confidential information to company B. But Mr S 
verbally agreed he was happy for Adrian Flux to refer the matter to company B and the call 
handler explained what that would mean, including passing his details to them. The terms 
and conditions of his motor insurance policy also state that although all personal information 
is treated as private and confidential, information will be disclosed in the normal course of 
arranging and administering the insurance. So I dont think it was unfair for Adrian Flux to 
pass Mr Ss information to company B, particularly as hed agreed to them becoming 
involved and it would need his details to allow them to do that.
I realise this isnt the news Mr S wanted but Im satisfied Adrian Flux hasnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the way it handled this matter and I wont therefore be asking it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman