DRN-2366116
The complaint
Mr W complains that Clydesdale Bank plc trading as Yorkshire Bank provided him with 
incorrect information about the chargeback scheme.
What happened
Mr W had a current account with Yorkshire Bank. He used his debit card to purchase certain 
items. But he says he didnt receive the items. He tried to phone Yorkshire Bank, but his call 
was disconnected. So, he used the online webchat facility.
Mr W says Yorkshire Bank told him he would have to wait thirty days before it would 
commence the chargeback process. He says this is not true. And he says theres nothing in 
the terms and conditions for the account to indicate this timescale applies.
He complained to Yorkshire Bank, but he says it didnt deal with his complaint. He referred 
his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. Yorkshire Bank provided us with copies of 
correspondence, including its final response letter, which it said it had sent to Mr W. Our 
investigator considered everything shed received.
She said that when Mr W contacted Yorkshire Bank on 31 March 2020 he told it he hadnt 
received the items hed paid for with his debit card. She said that the Mastercard rules 
stated, in cases such as this, the card issuer (Yorkshire Bank) had to wait thirty calendar 
days before submitting a chargeback request. So, she said Mr W had been given correct 
information.
She then considered a further webchat between Mr W and Yorkshire Bank on 7 April 2020. 
She said that during this webchat Mr W had said part of his order had been cancelled 
because it was out of stock. She said Mr W had been provided with the email address for the 
disputes team if he wanted to raise a chargeback. But he was also told that Yorkshire Bank 
might not be able to raise this as a dispute because it was less than thirty days from the date 
of the order. Our investigator thought that Mr W had been given the correct information 
during this webchat and had been given the information he needed to raise a chargeback.
Our investigator also noted that Mr W had received a full refund for the items hed ordered. 
So, she thought Yorkshire Bank hadnt done anything wrong and Mr W hadnt been left out 
of pocket because of what had happened. 
Mr W didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W complained to our service because he thought hed been given incorrect information 
by Yorkshire Bank when it told him hed have to wait thirty days to raise a chargeback 
request.
Its important at the outset to explain that the Chargeback Scheme is a voluntary code  its 
not a right and its not guaranteed to recover the money. The Scheme provides a process by 
which disputes are resolved between card issuers (in this case Yorkshire Bank) and 
merchants under the relevant card scheme (in this case Mastercard). There are rules which 
apply to the process and which have to be complied with.
When Mr W contacted Yorkshire Bank on 31 March 2020 by webchat he said he wanted to 
raise a chargeback because he hadnt received the item hed paid for. He was told hed need 
to wait thirty days before Yorkshire Bank could get involved. 
Ive looked at the Mastercard rules. These state:
In cases involving delayed delivery of goods or services and the delivery or 
performance date was not specified by the merchant: the issuer must wait 30 
calendar days from the transaction date before submitting a chargeback and not to 
exceed 120 calendar days from the transaction settlement date.
However, the issuer may charge back the transaction immediately (and not wait the 
30 calendar days) upon learning the merchant will not provide the goods or services 
because, for example, the merchant is no longer in business.
So, although during the webchat on 31 March 2020, Mr W wasnt asked if hed been given a 
delivery date, it was only a short time since hed placed his order. I can see that his account 
was debited with the payment the previous day, on 30 March 2020. So, based on the 
information hed provided to Yorkshire Bank, I dont think he was given incorrect information 
about the need to wait thirty days before it would get involved.
Ive then considered the information he was given on 7 April 2020 during a second webchat. 
On that occasion Mr W said hed cancelled his order because the merchant didnt have the 
items to sell. And he said itd agreed to refund him for that item. So, he wanted to raise a 
chargeback for the other item on his order. He was told:
I would advise you email these to our disputes team for review. We may not be able 
to raise this as a dispute as it has not been 30 days from the order. The email 
address is
Mr W says he did contact the disputes team and provided it with his account details. He did 
this on 7 April 2020 and 8 April 2020. I can also see he did receive refunds for both items 
hed ordered. One on the 8 April and the other on 9 April. So, hes been refunded in full.
Having considered the contents of the webchat on 7 April 2020, Im satisfied Mr W was given 
all the information he needed to progress a chargeback request. He was reminded about the 
thirty day rule. But he wasnt told not to go ahead and raise the chargeback request. And he 
did raise a chargeback request later on 7 April 2020. 
The chargeback team contacted him for more details the next day and he responded to that 
request. Hes also received a full refund on 8 and 9 April 2020. So, in these circumstances, 
Yorkshire Bank couldnt do anything further under the chargeback process.
Mr W also raised issues about his complaint not having been dealt with by Yorkshire Bank. 
But I can see it did send him a final response letter, addressed to the address it held for him on its records, on 18 May 2020. It also kept him informed on 15 April 2020 and 5 May 2020 
about how his complaint was progressing. 
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied Yorkshire Bank didnt give Mr W incorrect 
information. It provided him with the correct contact details to make a chargeback request. 
And he was able to submit a chargeback request. Hes also been refunded in full. So, Im 
satisfied Yorkshire Bank has acted fairly and reasonably. I dont require it to do anything 
more.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Bank plc 
trading as Yorkshire Bank. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman