DRN-2218340
The complaint
 Mr O is unhappy Inter Partner Assistance SA failed to recover his motorhome from a 
motorway after it suffered a flat tyre.   
What happened
What follows is intended to be a summary of the background behind Mr Os complaint. It isnt 
intended to be a detailed timeline of events and therefore does not include every event that 
has happened. 
Mr O called IPA to arrange recovery of his motorhome under his breakdown insurance 
policy. IPA had difficulties finding someone who could attend. This meant Mr O and his 
family spent over two hours on the motorway in the dark. Eventually the police attended and 
arranged recovery for the motorhome and Mr Os family at his own cost.
 
IPA accepted it did not provide an acceptable service to Mr O and offered to reimburse the 
cost of recovery and £75 compensation. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought the amount of compensation should be 
increased to £150. Mr O didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr O 
said he wants to know the details of who IPA called and the reasons given for why they 
couldnt attend. Hes questioned if the policy that IPA provides is fit for purpose as it 
fundamentally failed to meet its obligations.   
The case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O has made several detailed points. I want to assure Mr O Ive considered all of them 
and listened to the calls he had with IPA, but Im going to focus my decision on what I see as 
the central issues to this complaint. I dont intend this as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the 
informal nature of our service and my role in it.
I realise Mr O has strong views about what happened, he wants to know the exact details 
about who IPA called and the reasons given why the operatives couldnt attend. However, 
this isnt information we have or that IPA has been able to give in full. My role isnt to answer 
all points made. In this case I understand IPA has admitted it failed to provide recovery to 
Mr O on that night, it has apologised and reimbursed Mr O the cost of the recovery that was 
arranged by the police.
 
What is left for me to decide is whether the amount of compensation proposed is fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr O said in his complaint form that he feels at least £500 compensation is due to him to 
reflect the situation he was put through. The investigator proposed a total of £150 is paid to 
Mr O. 
IPA has said it would usually expect to be able to provide recovery within 60-90 minutes. 
However, on this evening, Mr O was left at the side of the motorway for longer than that 
without assistance. Approximately two hours after breaking down Mr O was instructed by the 
police that the motorhome had to be moved and a separate recovery was arranged. The 
motorhome was then taken to a safe place where a further company fixed the tyre. 
Had the service been provided as it should have, Mr O would have either been taken, to his 
original destination or departure point, or to a suitable local garage for a repair to be 
completed at Mr Os cost. So, in this case, he was recovered in a manner similar to what the 
policy provided. So I wont be awarding any additional compensation for this aspect. 
However, I am mindful that Mr O was left at the roadside with his family and, he had to make 
several phone calls to find out what was happening with no resolution. And, that he was then 
eventually moved on by the police.
Having considered this, I agree compensation is due, but I think £150 is a fair offer to 
recognise the failures of IPA to arrange recovery of Mr Os motorhome and the impact this 
then had.
I understand Mr O has said he doesnt think the policy provides what he pays for as he didnt 
realise IPA had no control over operatives being able to attend. Ive looked at the policy 
wording and it does explain that IPA will use Authorised Operators, which it describes as a 
service provider authorised in advance to carry out repairs or vehicle recovery under the 
policy. It doesnt suggest that it has its own operatives that provide recovery. 
There are different types of roadside recovery policies, some such as this one, use a 
network of operatives to provide the service. Others employ their own operatives. Mr O will 
need to contact the business that sold the policy to him if he has any concerns about the 
way it was described or presented to him.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint against Inter Partner Assistance SA. I 
direct it to pay Mr O a total of £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman