DRN-1947732
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard dealt poorly with a 
chargeback dispute on his credit card and that this affected his credit history.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr K used his Barclaycard to pay for a holiday. Mr K later complained to the 
holiday provider that they didnt provide the £200 room upgrade he had paid for. The holiday 
provider offered £60 in holiday vouchers, which Mr K didnt accept. Mr K then contacted 
Barclaycard and their dispute team started the Visa chargeback process for the full £200.
Over the following months, there were several entries on Mr Ks Barclaycard statements 
relating to the chargeback. These included a credit for the full holiday price, followed several 
weeks later by a recharge for the same amount. There were then several more entries 
dealing with the Visa chargeback. 
In October 2019, Mr K complained to Barclaycard that they had made several errors when 
applying the £200 charge back, and that at times his credit card account was over £2,000 in 
credit. He said the charging and recharging of the various amounts had been confusing and 
unreasonable. Mr K complained to Barclaycard again in November 2019 that the £200 
refund had since been applied to his credit card and then withdrawn.
Barclaycard agreed that the whole process wouldve been confusing for Mr K and they 
credited his card account with £100 to reflect this. They accepted the Visa chargeback 
agreed by the merchant had been £60 and no the full £200, but they refunded the £140 
difference as a gesture of goodwill. They also refunded a charge of £12 they made when Mr 
Ks card balance exceeded the agreed limit during October/November 2019.
Mr K wasnt happy with the final response he received from Barclaycard and brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought Barclaycard had taken reasonable steps to ensure their errors were 
corrected. The investigator thought the goodwill gesture of £140, together with a payment of 
£100 was a fair remedy. In respect of any adverse effect on Mr Ks credit history, the 
investigator didnt think there was any evidence to suggest the actions of Barclaycard 
damaged Mr Ks credit history.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator that the £100 compensation covered the 
inconvenience, stress and confusion Barclaycard caused him. He says he spent hours on 
the telephone with Barclaycard trying to obtain an explanation for the transactions, and to 
get them to put things right.
Mr K accepted there is no evidence the actions of Barclaycard affected his credit history, and 
that the fees and charges he had incurred had been refunded. However, Mr K feels there is 
a case for Barclaycard to answer regarding their convoluted and confusing consumer 
accounting procedures.
Before providing my decision, I will address Mr Ks view that Barclaycards accounting 
processes are convoluted and confusing. Although Mr K would like Barclaycard to change 
how they work going forward, I cant comment on Barclaycards procedures as a whole  
were only here to look at complaints about individual situations. Its the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who regulates financial businesses and their processes. 
While I empathise with Mr K, I cant tell Barclaycard to change their chargeback procedures.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard accepted they made errors in posting incorrect debit and credit amounts to Mr 
Ks credit card account. So, I dont think I need to record the details in my decision. The 
credit card statements show that, instead of ensuring the Visa chargeback was dealt with 
efficiently and effectively, Barclaycard made several errors between September and 
November 2019. The statements also confirm Barclaycard did eventually correct the errors. 
Barclaycard told us that the merchant only agreed to a £60 credit and not the £200 Mr K 
claimed. Barclaycard say that as a result of their error in dealing with the Visa chargeback, 
they credited the £140 difference to Mr Ks credit card account (18 November 2019) after the 
chargeback had been recharged to the account (8 November 2019). 
Mr Ks credit card statement from November 2019 shows Barclaycard applied a £12 charge 
when the card limit was exceeded. It isnt clear precisely when in the month the card 
exceeded the limit. I have noted the October and November statements show the closing 
balance each month was below the agreed limit. It seems more likely than not that the limit 
was exceeded when Barclaycard applied a further recharge for the full cost of the holiday on 
8 November 2019. However, Barclaycard did correct this on 25 November 2019, and they 
refunded the £12 charge for the card exceeding the limit. 
I am satisfied that Mr K hasnt suffered a financial loss from the errors made by Barclaycard.
In respect of Mr Ks credit history, I havent seen any evidence to support the actions of 
Barclaycard had an adverse effect. I have reviewed the credit report Mr K sent to this office 
and there is nothing in there that supports Barclaycard recorded any adverse information. 
The only unresolved part of the complaint is Mr Ks view that the £100 payment Barclaycard 
made to his credit card account doesnt cover the stress and inconvenience he has suffered. 
I think the payment of £100 is a reasonable sum to compensate him for the stress and 
inconvenience of having to contact Barclaycard to obtain an explanation about the entries on 
his credit card statement. I appreciate that Mr K wouldve been frustrated by the number of 
errors Barclaycard made, but I think it is fair and reasonable to recognise that Barclaycard 
not only paid Mr K the £100, they also made a goodwill payment of £140 for the error they 
made in dealing with the Visa chargeback. Therefore, I think Barclaycards payment of £100, 
for the time Mr K spent on the telephone and the stress and confusion when he saw the 
errors on his credit card statements, is a fair and reasonable remedy.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard dont need to take 
any further action in respect of this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman