DRN-2948017
The complaint
Mr P complains that Black Horse Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
The car has suffered a number of issues and I gather these have all be repaired under 
warranty. I appreciate Mr Ps concern that his car is a lemon, but I am not persuaded that 
this is the case.
There are two issues which arose within the first six months. There was fault with the wing 
mirror which was finally repaired after three attempts. I consider that to be regrettable, but it 
has been repaired and the issue was not so fundamental as to merit rejection. In order for 
me to consider rejection I need to be satisfied the car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of 
sale. I believe the wing mirror was faulty when Mr P acquired the car, but I dont consider 
that of itself is enough to allow me to require Black Horse to accept rejection.
The otter issue was the battery. Mr P was in contact with dealer and he has provided an 
email he sent in August 2018 which does not state clearly that there is a battery problem, but 
it can be inferred that is what he is referring to. I understand this was about concerns that the 
range wasnt as good as expected and that it had diminished.
Subsequently in November 2019 the battery failed and was replaced by the dealer at no cost 
to Mr P. I have seen texts from the dealer in January 2020 letting him know the car was 
repaired and ready for collection. It is not clear that the original issue raised by Mr P is the 
same one which caused the failure in November 2019. The first appears to have been about 
the range of the car and the second is a significant failure of the battery. 
Black Horse arranged for an independent inspection of the car by a qualified engineer which 
was carried out in June 2020, after the battery had been replaced. His conclusion was that:
The defects listed would not have been present at the point of sale.
The cause of the battery failure may have been due to a poor cell within, thus causing the 
breakdown stated. The loose mirror assembly would be due to potential contact/accidental 
opening of the mirror assembly. No comment can be made regarding the light chip to the 
heater screen assembly.
The repairing dealer have carried out the previous repairs to a satisfactory standard.
The battery range would be deemed to be within manufacturing perimeters. No fault with the 
battery usage could be identified during the inspection and road test.
The previous job cards were reviewed during the inspection.
Based on the evidence identified upon inspection, the vehicle would have been of 
satisfactory quality at the point of purchase.
I have noted that as this inspection took place after the repairs were carried out that a full 
check of the original battery could be undertaken. Nonetheless the independent engineer 
has reached a view that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. I think it is 
relevant that the battery was replaced and so the issue has been resolved. It may be that the 
new battery will, in effect, give the car a longer useful life than it might have had if the 
original was left in place. 
I have also noted the other issues which have arisen, including the dashboard camera, 
doors closing, heating, key and the touchscreen problems. There was also minor damage to 
a bumper when the car was being repaired. I have been told these have been repaired, but 
as Mr P hadnt collected the car he has not as yet verified the work has been done 
satisfactorily. 
I can see that he has not collected the car as he remains unsatisfied with the response from 
Black Horse and was waiting for a manager to respond. I dont consider that is necessary. 
The banks response was read out to him during a phone call and he offered to send an 
email showing he had about the battery within a few weeks of taking delivery. He did so and 
I see the bank responded with an email. I have also noted the dealer had already told him 
the car was ready for collection. 
Mr P has been provided with a courtesy car while his was with the dealer and I do not 
consider he has been significantly disadvantaged by his car not being available. I see that he 
managed to cover some 31,000 miles in the car which suggests he has been able to make 
significant use of it. 
In conclusion I accept Mr Ps experience has not been perfect and he has encountered more 
problems than one would wish for a nearly new car, but all the faults have been repaired and 
he has been kept on the road with courtesy cars. I believe that some compensation is due 
and I consider the sum offered by Black Horse is reasonable. 
My final decision
Black Horse Limited has already made an offer to pay £275 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Black Horse Limited should pay £275.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman