DRN-4005493
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund over £14,000 he 
lost to an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr D authorised the disputed payments he made to his Coinbase 
wallet from his Halifax account (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammer from his crypto wallet). The payments were requested by him using his 
legitimate security credentials provided by Halifax, and the starting position is that banks 
ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments 
to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Halifax should have done more to prevent Mr D from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
Having reviewed the first disputed transactions made between 17 and 
31 December 2021, I dont think these were enough in themselves to have warranted an 
intervention by Halifax, as they were not so unusual as to amount to a significant 
deviation in the way the account was normally run. However, by the time Mr D came to 
make the payment of £7,400 on 4 January 2022, it then marked a significant increase in 
spending, so I think Halifax ought to have intervened at this point to question Mr D 
around the nature of the payment.
However, even if Halifax had intervened at this point and asked further questions about 
the nature of the payment Mr D was making, Im not persuaded it would have likely 
stopped him from proceeding or have ultimately prevented his loss. I say this for a few 
reasons. First, Mr D was able to make several withdrawals throughout the duration of the 
scam, which he said was a simple and easy process and reassured him into thinking 
there would be no issues with this later on. So, if Halifax had warned him about not being 
able to withdraw his money, I dont think it would have led him to believe he was being 
scammed given he had been able to make withdrawals. 
Mr D said he had already carried out research on the broker and found only positive 
reviews. The investment had also been recommended to him by a trusted friend, who 
had told Mr D that he was making good returns from his investment. So, there would 
have been little reason for him to suspect he was being scammed if he believed this to 
be the case, particularly when he had already carried out his own research.  
So, even if Halifax had intervened and provided Mr D with a scam warning, Im not 
persuaded that any further checks he could have carried out would have revealed that 
he was likely being scammed. Therefore, I dont think Halifaxs failure to intervene can 
reasonably be considered as the proximate cause of Mr Ds loss in these circumstances, 
as it seems likely he would have proceeded to make the transactions irrespective of any 
intervention by the bank.
I understand Mr D subsequently fell victim to a further scam when he was attempting to 
recover the money he had lost to the investment scam, and made payments of £4,200 
and £5,150. However, I dont think these payments would have appeared unusual or out 
of character, particularly as they were then being sent to a well-established payee on his 
account (Coinbase) whom Mr D had paid before. So, I dont consider Halifax were 
required to intervene in any of these further scam payments either.  
Mr D is also unhappy with the service he received form Halifax as he says he didnt 
receive any response after emailing the bank in April 2022 to report the scam. However, 
Halifax has explained that in its banking app they provide a contact number plus the 
email address for Action Fraud. It does not provide an email address to contact the bank, 
so this is likely why Mr D didnt get a response from Halifax if his email went to Action 
Fraud. I also note that his call with Halifax was disconnected before he was able to 
report that he had been scammed. So, Im not persuaded Halifax has done anything 
wrong here with regards to the service it has provided. 
Ive also considered whether Halifax could have done more to recover the funds after 
Mr D reported the fraud. However, in this instance we know the money was quickly 
transferred out of the receiving Coinbase account and then sent to the scammer, so 
there would have been no prospect of Halifax recovering the money either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr D, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Halifax can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman