DRN-1715831
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) failed to action a 
request he made some time ago, to downgrade his card from a fee-paid account to a fee-
free account. He wants Amex to pay back all the fees it charged him after that.
What happened
Mr J held a fee-paid card with Amex, which entitled him to enhanced loyalty benefits 
provided by a third party. He noticed in summer 2016 that the future fee was going up from 
£150 to £195. So he wrote to Amex and asked it to cancel his fee-paid card. He said hed 
like to have a different, fee-free card, with less benefits, instead. Amex says it got his letter, 
but it didnt downgrade his account.
In summer 2018 Mr J noticed hed been charged the annual fee again. He wrote again, 
saying hed been wrongly charged in 2016 and 2017. Amex then cancelled his card, and 
gave him a pro rata refund of his annual fees for 2018. That isnt what Mr J wanted. 
When Mr J complained, Amex accepted it hadnt acted on his request to cancel his account. 
But it said hed still been using the card, and had received the enhanced benefits. Amex 
refunded the remaining small portion of his fee for 2018, and paid him £70 as an apology, 
making £100. Mr J says he didnt get Amexs letter about this, and he doesnt seem to have 
noticed the £100 payment onto his account. 
Mr J applied for a new, fee-free benefits card in early 2019. 
Our investigator thought what Amex had done was fair in these circumstances. He said Mr J 
had received the enhanced benefits of the fee-paid card, which was why Amex hadnt 
refunded all the fees hed paid. 
Mr J didnt agree. He said hed paid about £600 in fees since 2016, he wanted that back. He 
told us hed stopped using the fee-paid card as much as before, at the same time as he 
asked to cancel it. He said the benefits hed received from Amex while he continued to hold 
the fee-paid card were of no value to him, and Amex could have them all back.  
Amex still thought it had been fair. It said that, allowing for Mr Js refund, hed only paid £345 
in fees. He was using his fee-paid card after hed asked to cancel it in 2016, and after that 
cancellation was finally done in 2018, he'd taken out a new, fee-free card with some of the 
same benefits. So Amex still thought those benefits were of some value to Mr J. Amex also 
said it cant take back benefits that have been transferred to Mr Js account.
Because Mr J didn't agree with our investigator, this case was passed to me to resolve.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: Its clear that Amex has made mistakes here, because it failed to action Mr Js 
request to downgrade his card in 2016, and then cancelled his account altogether in 
2018. So I do think that Amex has to do something to make up for its mistakes. 
Amex thinks it's important to note that Mr J continued to receive enhanced benefits 
while he still had the fee-paid card. I don't think those are quite as important as Amex 
does, because Mr J has told us he didnt use them and he offered to return them. But 
I do think it's important that Mr J didnt notice in 2016 that he hadnt been sent a new 
card, new terms and conditions, or any other acknowledgement of the change hed 
requested. And he didnt notice he was still being charged a fee to hold his card after 
that. So I dont think that the fact that Mr J continued to pay for his card for a further 
two years after 2016 is solely Amexs fault. I do think Mr J has some responsibility to 
keep an eye on his card. And he has, unfortunately, missed opportunities to catch 
this mistake earlier. For that reason, I dont think that Amex has to pay back 
absolutely all the fees Mr J has paid.
Amex also says Mr J was happy to pay £150 per year for this card, and hes actually 
only paid £45 more than that. But Mr J asked Amex in 2016 to stop charging him 
anything. I dont think that Amex can assume, after Mr J asked for a fee-free card, 
that he wouldve been happy to continue to pay £150 per year instead. 
Amex first refunded part of Mr J's 2018 fees. It then paid Mr J £100, but that wasn't 
all compensation. It was made up of a refund of £29.92, which was the remaining, 
small amount of fees for 2018, and £70.08 of goodwill. I dont think thats quite 
enough to put right whats gone wrong here. 
I think it would be fair to ask Amex to refund Mr Js 2018 fees in full. So Im pleased 
to see that it has already done this. In addition, I think that Amex should pay Mr J a 
total of £200 in compensation. Thats not quite as much as Mr J was charged in fees 
for 2016 and 2017, but Ive explained why I dont think that its solely Amexs fault 
that the fee-paid card wasnt cancelled before 2018. Amex has already paid Mr J 
£70.08 as a gesture of goodwill. So my provisional decision would require Amex to 
pay Mr J £129.92 now. I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
case.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Amex accepted my decision. Mr J also wanted Amex to pay interest that he said hed been 
charged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
Mr J wrote to us to say that while he could see my logic in my summary of fees and refunds, 
he said I hadnt taken into account the interest that Amex had charged him, both before and 
after his complaint. He said that when he spoke to Amex around the beginning of May 2019, 
he was told not to pay the balance on the card, because the balance was more than the fees 
Amex had taken. Mr J said that Amexs call handler told him theyre likely to strike the 
balance so he didnt pay. He said that since then hes made regular monthly payments to 
the account, and been charged interest. 
Mr J said he couldnt see his statements online, so he couldnt calculate the exact additional 
interest hed been charged, but he said his card currently had a balance of just over £400. 
He said it looked like Amex had charged him between £12 and £16 per month since it cancelled his card. Mr J said that it would be fair to refund this interest. He said hed accept 
a refund of the interest paid in total while reserving the right to reclaim compound interest 
on all amounts using American Express methods.
Amex sent us a set of statements for Mr Js closed card account. Those show that Mr J had 
been paying the minimum monthly payment for this card by direct debit for some months 
before early May 2019, when he says Amex told him not to make his payment, and he didnt 
pay. His balance at the end of April 2019 was over £700, which is rather more than hes 
sought to reclaim in fees. 
Those statements also show that Mr J made his minimum payment by direct debit for that 
month, and the months following. So I dont think that Mr J did withhold a payment in May 
2019. And because the balance on his card wasnt less than the fees he was seeking to 
recoup, I dont think its likely that this conversation happened as Mr J now remembers. 
I took account of the fact that Mr J will have been charged some interest on the fees he paid, 
over the time he held this card, when I thought about the right amount of compensation to 
award in this case. But I also note that Mr J has brought his account to a nil balance a 
number of times, while he was using the card. He was last charged a fee for his Amex card 
in summer 2018. This charge of £195 shows on his July 2018 statement, and his balance 
was only a little more than this. Those fees have since been refunded by Amex. Mr Js 
balance though increased after that, as he was still spending on this card at that time. And 
hes only paid the minimum payment amount for some months. 
If Mr J has been paying interest since then, I think the great majority of this is interest he was 
charged on purchases. I dont think hes now paying that interest on fees that he was 
charged to hold this card. In these circumstances, I dont think it would be reasonable either 
to suggest that Amex refunds the interest Mr J has been charged recently, or that this issue 
should be left out of my current decision so that Mr J can seek to deal with it separately. 
For those reasons, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I previously 
proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited must pay Mr J £129.92, 
in addition to the amounts it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman