DRN-1428434
 
The complaint
Miss B says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) gave her loans she couldnt afford 
to repay. 
What happened
This complaint is about two loans that Mr Lender provided to Miss B - heres a table setting 
out details: 
 
Loan 
Date TakenDate
Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest
Repayment
1 07/04/2011 30/06/2011 1 £250.00 £327.50
2 13/07/2011 04/12/2012 1 £300.00 £325.75
 
Miss B says proper checks were not carried out to ensure the loans were affordable. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint and thought the loans werent unfairly 
provided. Overall, our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent 
about Miss Bs circumstances and her history with the lender, it wouldnt have been 
proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Miss B for the amount of information needed to show the 
lending was unsustainable. 
And our adjudicator didn't think that the number of loans Miss B had taken out, the amounts 
shed borrowed or the length of time shed been borrowing from Mr Lender shouldve alerted 
Mr Lender to think she was having money problems. 
Miss B disagreed. She mainly says that she had loans with another payday lender around 
the same time and the fact that she was taking out so many loans so close together 
shouldve been flagged up and Mr Lender ought to have taken this into account. 
So this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice  on our website. Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that each time she borrowed, Mr Lender should have carried out 
proportionate checks to make sure Miss B could repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint. 
Before lending to Miss B, Mr Lender asked Miss B for information about her financial 
situation, such as her monthly income, and it carried out some credit checks. 
Ive looked at each loan in turn and thought about whether it was fair for Mr Lender to lend to 
Miss B.
loan 1
When Miss B took out her first loan, Mr Lender had no reason to doubt what she told it about 
her financial situation. 
So Mr Lender was entitled to rely on the information Miss B provided in response to the 
questions it asked her and what it had discovered about her financial situation from its own 
checks. 
And looking at the figures that Mr Lender worked on, loan 1 shouldve been comfortably 
affordable for Miss B. Shed told Mr Lender that her monthly take home pay was around 
£1,250. So there wasnt anything to suggest that paying loan 1 would be a problem for her.  
At this early stage, Miss B didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Mr Lender to any underlying money problems, and I cant see that there was anything in the 
information she provided or the information Mr Lender had gathered, which meant that 
Mr Lender shouldve taken steps to enquire further into her financial situation or do more to 
verify the information Miss B had declared. 
So I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Around two weeks after Miss B repaid loan 1, Mr Lender gave her loan 2. 
Miss B made some interest only payments on loan 1, but I don't think Mr Lender had any 
reason to think that paying back that loan had been a problem for her.   
And although Miss B later had problems paying loan 2, I dont think that when she took out 
this loan its fair to say that Mr Lender shouldve realised that Miss B might be having serious 
money problems or that she would find it difficult to make the repayments she had signed up 
to.  
I cant see that Miss B gave Mr Lender any indication that her borrowing elsewhere was at 
the stage where it was causing her serious money problems during her application for 
loan 2. And it appears that Mr Lenders own checks didnt flag up anything that shouldve 
made it realise it needed to probe more deeply into Miss Bs financial circumstances. Miss B says that Mr Lender shouldve done credit checks that showed the full extent of her 
other debt and so it shouldve realised that she was struggling with debt.
But Loan 2 looked affordable compared with the take home pay Miss B had declared. And 
given what shed told Mr Lender and what was apparent about Miss Bs circumstances and 
her borrowing history at that time with Mr Lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate 
for Mr Lender to ask Miss B for the amount of information that would be needed to show the 
lending was unsustainable before agreeing this loan.
Overall, I havent seen enough to make me think that the information Mr Lender had showed 
that loan 2 wasnt affordable for her or that providing loan 2 to her was unfair. 
So Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint about loan 2. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account everything that Miss B said in response to 
our adjudicators assessment and I've taken into consideration the credit information shes 
sent us. Even if Mr Lender knew about the other borrowing that Miss B told us about, this 
wouldnt change my overall view. I say this because the extent of Miss Bs other payday 
lending wasnt enough for me fairly to be able to say that a responsible lender who knew 
about this other lending should have declined her application for loan 2.  
Im sorry that Miss B found repaying these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality her 
financial situation wasnt fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the other 
information Mr Lender obtained.  
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say that Miss B lost out as a result 
of something that Mr Lender did wrong. And for the reasons I've set out above, based on all 
the information I've seen and been told, I dont think thats the case. 
I am sorry to disappoint Miss B. But I hope my explanation helps her understand why Ive 
reached my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman