DRN-3762319
The complaint
Mr A complains about a used car he bought using his credit card account with Lloyds Bank
PLC.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr A bought a used car from a dealer. To pay for the car, Mr A used his
credit card account with Lloyds. Before the sale, Mr A and the dealer exchanged emails
regarding the general condition of the car. Mr A says this was important because he
intended to use the car to help with his business.
Once Mr A had completed the purchase, he took the car to a garage accredited by the cars
manufacturer. Mr A says the garage told him the car needed repairs to several parts. So,
Mr A asked the dealer to pay for the repairs.
The dealer said they would repair items listed on the warranty, but nothing else, as that was
due to expected wear and tear. Mr A took the car to the dealer for some of the repairs, but a
short while afterwards noticed problems with the air conditioning and the heating. However,
the dealer refused to carry out or pay for any further work.
Because Mr A used his credit card with Lloyds to buy the car, he contacted them to make a
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). He asked Lloyds to accept
his claim for the purchase price of the car, and wanted them to pay around £2,000 for the
repair costs he said he had incurred. Lloyds explained to Mr A that they wouldnt look at his
section 75 claim, because he was using the car for business purposes. Mr A didnt accept
that and brought his case to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr As case and found that Lloyds should have
considered his section 75 claim. They concluded the dealer gave Mr A incorrect information
about the cars condition, which had induced him into buying it.
The investigator asked Lloyds to refund the cost of the car, pay for the repair costs and add
an interest payment to the repair costs. The investigator also said Lloyds should remove any
associated interest and adverse information connected to the purchase.
To try and resolve Mr As complaint, Lloyds offered to pay Mr A the difference between the
cars purchase price and any sale price, should Mr A decide to sell it. Lloyds also offered to
remove any adverse information and refund some of the repair costs, where Mr A could
provide proof of payment. Mr A didnt accept the offer and said Lloyds should compensate
him further for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced. He also said Lloyds should
pay him all the repair costs.
The investigator didnt change their conclusions and Mr As case has been passed to me to
make a decision.
I sent Mr A and Lloyds my provisional decision on this case, on 10 October 2022. I explained 
why I think the complaint should be upheld. A copy of my provisional findings is included 
below:
Section 75 of The CCA
This case is about a payment Mr A made from his credit card account with Lloyds, which is a
regulated financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it.
The relevant piece of legislation Ive thought about is section 75 of the CCA. This provides
protection for consumers for goods and services bought using credit. Under section 75,
subject to certain criteria, consumers who use a credit card to pay for goods and services,
have an equal claim against the finance provider, for any breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Ive thought about Lloyds initial response to Mr As complaint. Lloyds said Mr A couldnt
make a section 75 claim as the car was to be used for business purposes. I agree with the
investigator here, in that Mr A bought the car using a credit card in his personal name,
meaning he is able to bring a section 75 claim about it. I can see that Lloyds have
subsequently accepted this.
In Mr As case, he says section 75 means he has an equal claim against Lloyds, because
the dealer told him something about the car that wasnt true. So, with what Ive said in mind,
I agree that Mr A was able to ask Lloyds to consider if he has a claim under section 75 of the
CCA.
The quality of the car
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), there is an implied term written into contracts
that goods supplied need to be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says the quality of goods is
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory,
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant
circumstances.
In Mr As case, he says the car had faults which should have been fixed before he bought it.
If the goods provided by the supplier are not of satisfactory quality, then this is a breach of
contract.
So, Lloyds responsibility to Mr A is to consider his section 75 claim and decide if the car was
of satisfactory quality. If its found it was not of satisfactory quality, it would be for Lloyds to
then offer Mr A an appropriate remedy.
Mr A bought a used car from the dealer, that was 14 years old and had covered around
70,000 miles at the point of supply. So, I think thered be different expectations than if the car
was brand new. In other words, I think a reasonable person would expect the car to show
signs of wear and tear.
Within the information Mr A has provided, are several estimates for repair from a
manufacturer accredited workshop. The repairs range from investigating an engine
management light, to replacing the engine and gear box mounts. Mr A has also sent us a
video of a mechanic inspection, showing a leek and perished seals.
I can see that the dealer responded to Mr As initial emails about the quality of the car, to say
that some of the concerns identified would be expected given the cars circumstances. The
dealer also told Mr A that the warranty doesnt cover the other faults, as they are mostly
down to wear and tear.Ive also thought about the repairs carried out by the dealer after the sale, and the
agreement reached with Mr A about the cost of those repairs. Furthermore, I think the
various estimates Mr A got for the repairs from other garages, were with the intention of
eliminating the majority of the wear and tear. And I dont think it would be fair for Lloyds to be
responsible for paying to bring the car back up to that standard.
Ive considered what everyone involved with this case has said, including the circumstances
of the car. Overall, I think the car was of a standard that a reasonable person would say was
of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. I think the age, mileage and what we know about
the repairs recommended to Mr A, is consistent with what a reasonable person would
expect.
So, I dont think Lloyds need to take any further action about this part of Mr As section 75
claim.
Misrepresentation
In summary, the CRA says goods must match the description given. Section 75 of the CCA
says a customer may have a claim against a finance provider, if the goods have been
misrepresented by the supplier. I need to consider this with Mr As case. But, for a claim to
succeed, I also need to decide if any misrepresentation resulted in Mr A entering into the
contract with the dealer.
Ive looked at all the emails between the dealer and Mr A. At the beginning of Mr As enquiry
with the dealer, he asked very specific questions about the condition of the car. Mr A asked if
the car was in top condition if there were any scuffs or dents and if the car was
mechanically sound. Mr A also told the dealer that he needed an exceptional car for his
employment and was concerned about the running costs compared to his existing car.
In response, the dealer replied with very short emails making comments such as no paint
needed, inside superb, engine spot on, a very tidy example and only fault is CD player
not working.
The dealer also asked Mr A to discuss the car further in a telephone call and invited
negotiations over the price. The emails show that Mr A asked the dealer what his best price
would be.
Having considered everything, I dont think the dealer gave Mr A the answers to the 
questions he had asked, before he travelled to see the car. I think Mr As subsequent
messages show he was frustrated about the lack of detail from the dealer.
I accept the dealers emails gave Mr A encouragement that the car would be suitable for his
employment. But I dont think the dealer gave Mr A the impression the car was free of wear
and tear, or in the exceptional condition that Mr A was looking for.
From looking at the correspondence after the sale and at the sales invoice, I can see that the
dealer reduced the price of the car, once Mr A had looked at it. The emails show the price
was reduced because the car needed some new parts, as well as two new tyres.
On balance, I think Mr A and the dealer discussed the condition of the car at the sales office
and this is likely to have resulted in the lowering of the advertised price.
In all the circumstances, I think it was Mr As visit to the dealer, his viewing of the car and the
discussions about the purchase price, which resulted in Mr A entering the contract to buy the
car. While I understand that Mr A was looking to get a car, in a very specific condition for his
employment, I dont think the emails between the dealer and himself alone, led to him goingahead with the purchase.
So, I dont think there was a misrepresentation of the cars condition, which led Mr A into
buying the car. It then follows that I think Lloyds have treated this part Mr As section 75
claim fairly.
The offer from Lloyds
Lloyds have explained that they are prepared to pay Mr A the difference between the price
he paid to the dealer, and the price at which he sells the car. In other words, Lloyds will pay
the difference, should Mr A sell the car for less than he paid for it.
For that to happen, Lloyds say Mr A will need to provide proof of the sale price. I think asking
for that information is fair, as its likely Mr A will be able to show proof of an incoming funds
transfer to his bank account, or a receipt from a dealer.
During our investigation, Lloyds said theyd consider some of the repairs Mr A has paid for.
Mr A was able to show where he paid for investigation and diagnostic work, a new battery,
an alloy key and for the work carried out on the engine mounts.
As a result, Lloyds have agreed to pay Mr A £339.98 for some of the costs and repairs he
has told us about and has sent us evidence of. I accept that Lloyds offer doesnt cover all
the items Mr A says hes paid for.
But, Ive concluded that the dealer didnt mislead Mr A and that a reasonable person would
consider the car of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. And I also think that Mr A had 
some
use from the car since August 2020. So, overall I think Lloyds offer to pay for some of the
costs is fair.
Finally, Lloyds has also agreed to remove any adverse information, about the payment for
the car, from Mr As records with credit reference agencies. Again, because of my findings
about the quality of the car and what Mr A was told about it before the sale, I think this offer
is fair and reasonable.
I recognise that Mr A may be disappointed that Ive not agreed with his main argument that
he was induced into the purchase by the emails from dealer. But, in all the circumstances, I
think Lloyds overall approach to his section 75 claim is fair.
Mr A responded to the provisional decision and in summary, he said:
- Had the dealer told him about the costs he may have to pay to repair the car, he 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the purchase.
- Hed like his travel costs to the dealer and some other repair work included in the 
offer from Lloyds, to bring the total to £577.58.
- Hed like an additional award for the distress and inconvenience Lloyds have caused.
- The car has already been sold for a favourable price, so a payment for the difference 
isnt needed.
- There shouldnt be any adverse information recorded on his credit file.
Lloyds accepted the provisional decision, but wanted more clarity on the information to remove from Mr As record with credit reference agencies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has reiterated that he wouldnt have bought the car from the dealer, had he known 
about the repair work he eventually went on to pay for. I acknowledge what Mr A says and 
where his frustrations have come from, after the purchase was made. 
But, from looking at the evidence available about what was said before Mr A bought the car, 
Im still not persuaded there was a misrepresentation by the dealer, which induced Mr A into 
the sales contract. So, I dont think Lloyds should have to take any further action regarding 
this part of Mr As section 75 claim.
I also understand why Mr A has asked for some further costs to be added to Lloyds offer, as 
well as a payment for the distress and inconvenience he says he has suffered. 
However, Ive concluded that there hasnt been a breach of contract by the dealer and that 
Lloyds dont need to take further steps in respect of Mr As section 75 claim. It then follows 
that I dont think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to increase the offer theyve made.
In his recent response, Mr A told us that he has now sold the car for a favourable price, 
meaning Lloyds offer to refund the difference isnt needed. Im grateful to Mr A in providing 
an update and I agree that this means the related part of Lloyds offer doesnt need to be 
pursued further. 
While I acknowledge that Mr A may be disappointed where he hasnt managed to recoup all 
the costs of the repairs from the sale, Im relieved to hear he has at least achieved more 
than the price he paid to the dealer.
Both Mr A and Lloyds have raised questions about any potential adverse information from 
the transaction on Mr As credit card, when he bought the car from the dealer. Mr A says he 
doesnt think any adverse information was recorded and Lloyds have said similar. 
For clarity, Lloyds offered to remove any adverse information, related to the credit card 
transaction for the purchase of the car. 
In other words, if Mr A missed any repayments after that transaction, because of the dispute 
over his section 75 claim, then that information should be removed from the details recorded 
with credit reference agencies.
In all the circumstances, I still think Lloyds have treated Mr As section 75 claim fairly. I dont 
think there was a breach of contract by the dealer. So, I still think Lloyds offer to pay Mr A 
for some of the repair costs hes incurred, and to remove adverse information from his credit 
file is fair.
Putting things right
For these reasons Lloyds Bank PLC should:
pay Mr A £339.98 for some of the repairs he arranged; andremove any adverse information in relation to the payment to the supplier from Mr As 
records with credit reference agencies.
Lloyds must pay this amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr A accepts 
my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the
settlement amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
If Lloyds deducts tax from any interest they pay to Mr A, they should provide Mr A with a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if
appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman