DRN-3949142
The complaint
Mr B complains Santander UK Plc added his details to a fraud database.
What happened
Mr Bs account received two fraudulent payments. Santander blocked Mr Bs account and 
asked him to explain where the money came from. Mr B explained the money was for a car 
purchase. In a later call, Mr B said he didnt recognise the payments.
Santander closed Mr Bs account and added his details to a fraud database.
Mr B complained and Santander said it wouldnt remove Mr Bs details. Santander said Mr B 
had received fraudulent money and had been asked to provide documents to support the 
sale of a car, but hadnt provided anything.
Unhappy with this answer, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. An adjudicator looked 
into things and thought Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.
The investigator said Mr Bs testimony around the sale of the car was persuasive, and 
suggested Mr B had been the unwitting beneficiary of fraudulent money. Because of this, the 
fraud database listing was unfair, and the investigator thought Santander should remove it.
Santander disagreed and said Mr B had accessed the fraudulent money very quickly after it 
had been credited. Santander also questioned why there were no documents about the sale 
of the car. 
And Santander didnt agree the statements from a relative supported Mr Bs testimony. 
Santander said Mr B benefitted from the money, so the fraud database loading was fair.
Santander asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For Santander to fairly load Mr B to a fraud database, or keep a loading on, it needs to show 
Mr B received fraudulent money. Santander also needs to show Mr B was somehow 
complicit in the receipt of this fraudulent money.
Ive looked at the information Santander received from the sending bank, about the payment 
to Mr Bs account. Im satisfied the money was fraudulent.
I have to decide if Mr B was somehow complicit in receiving, and using, this fraudulent 
money. The investigator asked Mr B for his version of events.
Mr B said he was looking to sell his mothers car, and placed an advert on social media. 
Someone came to look at the car and a price was agreed. Mr B received the first part of the 
agreed payment and took some cash out and sent the rest to another of his accounts.
The next day the buyer arrived again and decided not to buy the car. Mr B had already 
received more money, and the now potential buyer asked for all the money back.
Mr B didnt have all the money, so he borrowed some from a relative and then, after a 
suggestion from the potential buyer, bought foreign currency using his card and handed this 
to the potential buyer. This meant the potential buyer was refunded in full.
Santander then blocked and closed Mr Bs account.
Ive considered what Mr B has said, and Santanders concerns about what Mr B says 
happened. Where evidence is unclear or incomplete, I can decide things on a balance of 
probabilities  whats more likely to have happened.
In Santanders first call to Mr B he said the money was from the sale of a vehicle. I realise 
Mr B was inconsistent in his later calls, but I dont think this matters. If the money wasnt for 
a car sale, it would mean Mr B would need to manufacture a story to fit a car sale.
I dont believe this is the case, when considering what Mr B and his mother have said about 
the circumstances of the car sale and subsequent refund.
Mr B said the potential buyer reacted badly when the car wouldnt start on the second 
viewing. Mr B says its likely the potential buyer purposely made the car fail to start.
The potential buyer was then very angry and abusive and Mr Bs mother stepped in and 
offered a refund to diffuse the situation. Mr Bs mother has sent in her version of events, and 
its consistent with Mr Bs.
Ive also seen documents to show Mr Bs mother owned the make and model of car he says 
he was looking to sell. Mr B doesnt have proof of the listing, or any messages from the 
potential buyer.
Mr B says the potential buyer blocked him, and he lost the messages, and this is consistent 
with how I understand this type of social media works. I dont think the lack of messages 
proves or disproves Mr Bs version of events.
Mr B says a relative had access to cash to refund, in part, the potential buyer. Santander has 
seen the statements and has said this doesnt help Mr Bs version of events, but I disagree.
Mr Bs relative was consistently taking £300 a day for a week before the attempted sale of 
the car. This would mean Mr Bs relative would have to know, in advance of Mr B receiving 
fraudulent money, theyd need to access cash to act as a cover for his version of events.
I dont think this is very likely. Im persuaded Mr Bs relative had access to cash at home to 
allow him to refund, in part, the potential buyer. And Im persuaded this is usual behaviour 
from Mr Bs relative, not something done in advance to prove a later version of events.
Santander has also questioned why there are no documents to show the sale. But Mr B and 
his mother have both said the sale of the car didnt go ahead.Santander says it expected the documents to change hands after the first payment. The first 
payment was for half the price of the car, I wouldnt expect Mr Bs mother to change 
ownership of the car to a buyer who hadnt paid in full.
The last point Santander raised is the rapid spend, including the purchase of currency. Mr B 
says the potential buyer suggested this as a way to access the cash.
Mr B also says he and his mother suggested a bank transfer, but the potential buyer refused 
this. If the potential buyer allowed the money to be repaid to the sender, they wouldnt be 
able to access this fraudulent money.
The potential buyer needed a way of accessing money from Mr Bs account without a bank 
visit, where difficult questions might be asked. Withdrawing currency was a way round this, 
so it seems to fit with the potential buyer being the fraudster.
I cant be sure what happened around the car sale, I wasnt there. But Mr B and his mother 
were, and Ive seen testimony from both, and Im inclined to believe this testimony. 
On balance, I think its more likely Mr B wasnt aware the money coming into his account 
was fraudulent. This means, on balance, I dont think Mr B was complicit in the receipt, or 
use, of this fraudulent money.
The bar for a fraud database loading is higher than just balance of probabilities. Because of 
this I dont think its fair for Santander to continue to record Mr Bs details on any fraud 
database.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and Santander should remove Mr Bs details from 
any fraud databases its recorded them on.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman