DRN-4139257
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) relates to its attempts to recover a 
shortfall balance on his mortgage account following the sale of his property in March 2013.
What happened
Mr G had a mortgage secured on a property I shall call M Rd. This property was 
repossessed by HSBC and subsequently sold in March 2013 resulting in a shortfall on his 
mortgage account of over £30,000.
In February 2015 HSBC were in communication with Mr G and confirmed the amount of the 
shortfall and asked him to contact their legal representatives to arrange repayment. 
When making his complaint to this service, Mr G said he had been contacted by a debt 
collection company regarding monies owed from 11 years ago. He said he had had no 
contact with HSBC for the previous eight years and was contesting the debt as he believed it 
to have been written off as toxic debt. He also questioned the security address details 
which the debt had been based on, and also complained of HSBCs lack of progress.
HSBC dispute that it had written off the debt although it did accept correspondence had 
been sent to Mr G by its debt collection agents which recited an incorrect security address. It 
also accepted that it hadnt contacted Mr G for many years but nevertheless said the debt 
remained outstanding, and it was entitled to pursue it.
Mr G was unhappy with HSBCs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that HSBC hadnt done 
anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Mr G didnt agree and asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive taken account of both sides views and Ive looked at the issues raised and considered 
all the available evidence. Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely 
to have happened in the light of the evidence which is available. 
Mr G has not disputed that he once had a mortgage with HSBC on M Rd. Although he has 
made previous complaints about HSBCs actions and the debt itself, these have already 
been dealt with and rejected, and so I am not dealing with them here.
The starting point to this complaint is that there is an established mortgaged account 
shortfall balance which HSBC. This arose when the property was sold in March 2013. The 
next issue is whether HSBC agreed to write that balance off. From the documentation 
supplied to me there is no such evidence of any agreement. To the contrary, there is 
correspondence from HSBCs agents showing that the shortfall was being pursued. I cannot 
therefore agree that the shortfall balance was written off.
It is correct that correspondence Mr G received bears incorrect security details. HSBC have 
accepted that is an error on their part caused administratively when the account was 
transferred to their collections agent. The impact of this error is in my view minimal since, 
given the history to the matter, Mr G cannot be said to have been confused as to what the 
debt actually related to. He was sent a completion statement following the sale of the 
property in 2013 advising him of the debt. It is more than likely that despite the 
correspondence showing the incorrect security address, Mr G knew what the demand for 
repayment related to.
The chronology to the complaint shows that following the sale of M Rd, Mr G entered into an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement in or around 2015. Mr G says this failed in 2016, although 
HSBC have said it wasnt informed of this until 2022 which is when they reinstructed their 
collection agents. Mr G has disputed this by saying that it was Step Change who notified 
them, but I havent seen any evidence of that. I cannot be satisfied therefore that HSBC 
knew the IVA had failed sooner than 2022.
Even if I am wrong about that and HSBC did know that the IVA had failed in 2016, that delay 
in recommencing recovery does not mean HSBC are not permitted to do it. As our 
investigator has explained, a mortgage debt can be pursued up to 12 years following the 
date of the sale of M Rd, and quite clearly HSBC are within that time frame. So, in deciding 
to proceed with recovery action I cant say HSBC have done anything wrong. 
Ive also considered the Mortgage Conduct of Business rules which provide that a lender 
must inform a borrower of any shortfall debt as soon as possible, and also notify the 
borrower that it intends to recover the debt within six years of the sale. In this case HSBC did 
just that when providing him with a completion statement when M Rd was sold, and then in 
February 2015 when it asked him to contact their legal representatives to arrange 
repayment. 
So, although Mr G will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say HSBC has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. HSBC have acted 
correctly here and are entitled to pursue the shortfall debt. I dont find that HSBC wrote the 
debt off and the incorrect security details on the correspondence Mr G received did not 
prejudice him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman