DRN-2214017
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Santander UK Plc wont refund three disputed card transactions.
What happened
Mr L is disputing three card payments to a club, totalling £1,274.73. 
Mr L said he was abroad on holiday with friends. They visited the club for a meal, drinks and 
entertainment. He tried to settle the bill with his Santander debit card. He said he entered his 
card into the card reader and keyed in his PIN. A staff member walked away with his card 
and card reader. He returned and angrily told Mr L the transaction had failed. A security man 
came over and advised Mr L to pay in cash, which he did. As a gesture of goodwill, the club 
offered him free drinks if he returned. He went back to the club two days later. He tried to 
pay for drinks and services twice with his card but, again, the transactions failed and he had 
to pay in cash.
When Mr L returned to the UK, he checked his account online and saw that the three 
transactions had debited his account. He called Santander and made a fraud a complaint. 
He said he couldnt access his account online while abroad because he was using a different 
SIM card and he didnt have any receipts for the cash payments because the club didnt 
provide any.
He asked Santander for a refund.
Santander decided not to refund him. It said, when he entered his card and PIN into the card 
reader, he had authorised the transactions and it wasnt treating his complaint as fraud. 
As Mr L didnt agree with Santanders decision, he asked this service to investigate. He said 
he was the victim of a scam and Santander should refund him. He said he made his own 
inquiries into the club and discovered it was engaged in criminal activities, including card 
scams and card cloning. 
An investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He said Mr L had 
authorised the transactions. And he said Santander couldnt raise a chargeback as Mr L 
couldnt prove hed paid for the goods and services in cash. 
Mr L didnt accept the investigators view and so this case has now come to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but having reviewed the evidence, Ive reached the same  
conclusions as those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
In short, Santander is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017).  But the bank can hold Mr L liable for any disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself.
The regulations state that a payment transaction is regarded as having been authorised by 
the payer only if the payer has given consent to the execution of the payment transaction.
The regulations go on to say that such consent must be given in the form, and in 
accordance with the procedure, agreed between the payer and its payment service provider.  
The form and procedure are usually set out in the terms and conditions and include using a 
card with the PIN. 
Santanders records confirm that for each transaction, the chip in Mr Ls card was read and 
the PIN was entered correctly. Also, there were no declined transactions, even though the 
staff told him the transactions had failed. Mr L admits he entered his card and PIN into the 
card reader on both visits to the club. There is no dispute, therefore, that he authorised the 
transactions.
I noted that Mr L said the card reader screen was blank and he couldnt see an amount 
when he tried to make the first payment. However, Im afraid that, under the regulations, it 
doesnt matter if the payer doesnt know or see the amount they are being charged. They are 
still treated as having consented to the payment instruction, simply by using their card and 
PIN.
Based on the evidence, Im afraid I find that Mr L has authorised the three card transactions 
and Santander is entitled to hold him liable for them.
This doesnt mean that a customer is left without a remedy where a payment has been made 
twice or where there has been an overpayment. Ordinarily, a bank can raise a chargeback 
with the merchant. This allows for a refund to be made after a customer successfully 
disputes an item on their statement. The chargeback process cant be used for fraud claims 
but it may be used for duplicate payments. However, Santander couldnt raise a chargeback 
without proof from Mr L that he had already paid for the same services. Unfortunately, he 
didnt have any receipts or other evidence that he had paid for services and he needed to 
provide this. I understand he might have felt intimidated by the staff and hostile environment 
in the club and asking for receipts wouldnt have gone down well. However, I cant hold 
Santander responsible for the clubs actions.
So, I dont think Santander acted unreasonably when it refused to raise a chargeback.
There were also inconsistencies in Mr Ls version of events which make me doubt whether 
he has told us a truthful account. For example, he told Santander he couldnt access his 
account online from abroad, yet Santanders online audit shows he transferred £1,000 into 
his account on the same day as the first disputed card payment. Clearly, he could access his 
account online. And despite the offer of free drinks, I also question why he returned to the 
same club, given the way he said he was treated. 
Taking everything into account, I think its fair and reasonable for Santander to refuse a 
refund of the disputed transactions.Im sorry Mr L found himself in this wretched situation. I know he will be disappointed by my 
decision, but I hope the reasons Ive given are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2021.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman