DRN-3645614
The complaint
Ms Rs complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) didnt 
increase the interest rate on her savings account when the Bank of England raised the base 
rate  even though theyd reduced their rate when the Bank of England had reduced the 
base rate.
What happened
Ms R has had a savings account with Virgin for several years.  At the time she opened it, the 
account offered an interest rate of 1.45%.  The rate has been reduced several times since 
then and is currently 0.35%.
Despite the Bank of England raising the base rate in December 2021, February and March 
2022, Virgin didnt increase the rate of interest on Ms Rs account.  So she made a complaint 
to them via telephone.  Ms R chased Virgin several times to deal with her complaint, as a 
result of which she made further complaints about the amount of time she was kept on hold 
and about the fact her requests for a senior manager to get in touch with her were ignored.
Virgin investigated and wrote to Ms R with their findings.  They apologised for their long call 
waiting times and for not asking a manager to call her.  And they apologised for not sending 
Ms R their final response within eight weeks of her complaining.  Virgin credited Ms Rs 
account with £75 for these failings.
But they said their interest rates were under review and they couldnt confirm if the rate on 
Ms Rs account would increase.  And Virgin said that, as her account is not one which tracks 
the Bank of Englands base rate, they hadnt done anything wrong in not raising Ms Rs 
interest rate.
Ms R wasnt satisfied with Virgins response and brought her complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded Virgin didnt need to do any more to resolve it.  He 
noted the rate on Ms Rs account was variable  not one which tracks the Bank of England 
base rate.  So, while he noted Virgin are reviewing their rates, they werent obliged to 
increase them in line with what the Bank of England has done.
And our investigator said he thought the £75 compensation Virgin had paid Ms R for the 
poor service shed experienced was fair.
Ms R didnt agree with the investigators view.  She sent us a copy of an email Virgin had 
sent her when theyd decreased her interest rate, in which they linked the reduction to the 
Bank of England dropping the base rate.  She said the clear linking of these two events in 
Virgins email led her to believe that her rate would increase if the base rate was raised and 
felt shed been misled.
Because Ms R didnt agree with our investigator, Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand Ms Rs frustration that her interest rate, despite the Bank of England increasing 
the base rate several times before she complained  and several times since.  
But its not the role of this service to dictate to businesses what terms and conditions  
including interest rates  they should offer their customers.  Thats a business decision for 
them to make.  What I can do is decide whether Virgin have made their terms clear and 
applied them fairly in Ms Rs case.
The Key Product Information document provided to Ms R when she opened the account has 
a section called Can Virgin Money change the interest rate?  That says:
Rates are variable. This means we may increase or decrease interest rates at any time. 
When we decrease interest rates we will give you at least 14 days notice before the rate 
reduces. You can close or transfer your account for 30 days from the date of the notice 
without being charged even if you have already made two withdrawals that calendar year. 
Please refer to section 10 within the Savings terms and conditions.
Section 10 of the Savings terms and conditions sets out what Virgin can change and what 
may prompt them to do so.
Im satisfied from this document the rate applicable to Ms Rs account is variable and doesnt 
track the Bank of England base rate.  That means, while Virgin can take that into account 
when determining their interest rates, they dont have to increase them just because the 
Bank of England has.
And theres no suggestion the email Ms R forwarded to us changes those terms.  Virgins 
savings terms make it clear the Bank of England changing the base rate is one factor they 
take into account when setting their own rates.  Its clear from the email Ms R provided that 
was factored into Virgins decision to reduce the Ms Rs interest rate when they did.  
But theres no commitment to increasing the rate again should the base rate increase, nor do 
I think thats implied.  So I dont think Ms R has been misled.  
Ive also thought about the customer service Ms R complained about.  I can see she 
contacted Virgin several times while her complaint was being looked at. Virgin 
acknowledged Ms Rs concerns and paid her £75 compensation.  
I think that was reasonable.  I understand Ms R wanted a quick answer to her complaint.  
And she called Virgin to try and get that.  But businesses have eight weeks to deal with any 
concerns a customer raises.  And, if they cant provide a response in that time, they have to 
provide the customer with details of our service and their right to refer the complaint to us.  
Virgin followed that process.  And, while I know Ms R remains unhappy at the interest rate 
shes receiving from them, thats not something I can direct them to change.  So I dont think 
they need to do any more to resolve her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint about Clydesdale Bank 
Plc, trading as Virgin Money.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman