DRN-4313847
The complaint
Mrs P complained that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AI) didnt fairly settle her claim 
under her contents insurance policy. Mrs P did have some representation during the 
complaint but for ease and simplicity Ill only refer to Mrs P.
What happened
AI accepted Mrs Ps claim when she lost a valuable piece of jewellery. AI instructed Mrs P to 
order a replacement ring from her jeweller and asked her to send the invoice to AI so it could 
pay the jeweller direct. Mrs P also had to pay the jeweller a £500 contribution to cover the 
excess on the policy.
Later, Mrs P found her original ring. She informed AI of this, but her jeweller had already 
made the replacement ring, so naturally expected payment for it. AI said as the original ring 
was found, there was no longer a claim to be made, so it refused to pay the jeweller.
AI said it hadnt entered a contract with the jeweller itself and said the jeweller could sell the 
replacement ring on the open market. However, the jeweller has now threatened Mrs P with 
legal action if payment for the replacement ring isnt made.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She said AI had authorised Mrs P to get a 
replacement ring made, so its not fair that Mrs P maybe left with the bill for the replacement 
ring. She thought AI should liaise with the jeweller to either pay the jeweller or agree to an 
amicable way forward to sell the ring on the open market to recover the costs. AI didnt 
respond, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate AI didnt have a contract directly with the jeweller. However, I think the evidence 
is clear that AI accepted the claim and gave Mrs P authorisation to approach her jeweller to 
get the replacement ring made. It said it would pay the jeweller on receipt of the invoice.
So, I dont think its fair that AI has simply walked away from the claim when Mrs P honestly 
informed them the original ring had since been found. I dont think its reasonable to expect 
Mrs P to pay the cost for the replacement ring. Therefore, I uphold this complaint.
The jeweller had been commissioned to make a bespoke piece of jewellery  it incurred 
costs for labour and materials to produce the item. I dont think its fair that AI expect Mrs P 
now to foot the bill with the jeweller now she has found the original ring.
Mrs P wants to keep the original ring as it holds sentimental value to her, but she has no 
need for the replacement ring anymore. However, in finding the original ring, I think the 
opportunity has arisen for AI to mitigate some, if not all its losses from the claim.
I think AI have the choice whether to pay the jeweller the costs for making the replacement 
ring as it originally proposed, or it can liaise with the jeweller directly and come to a mutually 
agreeable solution to sell the ring on the open market. Either way, Mrs P shouldnt be liable 
for these costs, only the £500 excess payment. AI should clarify with Mrs P who she needs 
to make this payment to. AI need to take responsibility for settling any outstanding costs 
relating to the replacement ring with the jeweller.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd 
to:
Settle all costs with the jeweller directly for the replacement ring (less £500 for the 
excess payment) or agree a mutually acceptable way with the jeweller to clear the 
outstanding balance.
Inform Mrs P how to pay her excess payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman