DRN-3432136
The complaint
Mr T complained his claim under his home emergency policy with Aviva Insurance Limited 
(Aviva) was unfairly settled. Mr T had representation during the complaint, but for ease and 
simplicity I will only refer to Mr T.
What happened
Mr T wanted to make a claim to Aviva when he experienced problems with his toilet and hot 
water. However, when he tried to call on the claim number provided he was unable to get 
through to the claims team after repeated attempts.
Mr T felt he had no choice but to arrange a plumber himself to fix the problems and did so at 
a cost £1,253.40.
Aviva said there was no evidence that Mr T tried to call the claim number, so it wouldnt 
cover the full claim as the costs hadnt been pre-authorised. However, it did reimburse 
£364.92 which it said was the maximum it could reimburse in the circumstances.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She thought on the balance of 
probabilities, it was likely Mr T had tried calling the claims team several times. She thought it 
was fair what Aviva had paid for the toilet due to restrictions in the terms and conditions. 
However, she thought Aviva should pay the full cost of the plumbers costs to fix the hot 
water issue plus interest at 8% simple per annum as Mr T had been without this money. 
Aviva disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 13 April 2022. I said:
Since the complaint was raised, Mr T has accepted the outcome for the settlement on the 
toilet issue, so I wont consider this point any further. I will only consider the reimbursement 
of the costs related to fixing the hot water.
Aviva has said it has paid the maximum its able to do for the repair to the hot water cylinder 
for a repair carried out by a private plumber. So, I have reviewed the complaint to see 
whether I think this payment is fair in the circumstances.
I have checked the terms and conditions of the policy and these are clear. They state 
Claims must be made by you or a person calling on your behalf. Please call us as soon as 
you are aware of the incident. We will not be able to cover the costs of any work carried out 
by persons not authorised by us in advance.
However, Mr T said he did try and call the claims team  he estimated hed called the claims 
number provided 23 times. He said at times hed been on hold for up to 45 minutes before 
the line went dead.
Mr T has tried to seek out evidence of him calling, but his service provider has told him the 
call only gets registered if the call is connected. Avivas records are inconclusive. Over the 
period in question, its difficult to tell exactly how long calls were taking to get answered and 
how many were getting abandoned. Aviva said the information provided couldnt be drilled 
down on. Recently, Aviva has shown Mr T made three calls in September 2020 and it shows 
the length of time Mr T was on hold was 19 minutes, 3 minutes, and 26 minutes. However, it 
doesnt have records before this time.
Aviva has said if Mr T had held on for 10 further minutes its likely his call wouldve been 
answered. Avivas evidence shows Mr T called the claims team and given Mr Ts issue 
started in March and it wasnt until August when his claim was registered, I think its likely he 
called on several occasions. So, I find Mr Ts account reliable. Mr T has explained that his 
issue was covered by the policy, so knowing this, I think its likely he wouldve made the 
effort to claim given hed paid for cover over many years.
Aviva has said it all comes down to what is an excessive amount of time to wait. Mr T is 
vulnerable by his circumstances, hes expressed his difficulty in not having hot water and 
having to boil a saucepan to get hot water. I am persuaded that he made significant efforts to 
contact the claims team, especially given these circumstances and the evidence provided by 
Aviva of some of the more recent calls. Mr Ts testimony has remained strong and consistent 
throughout this complaint. Therefore, I uphold this complaint, I dont think Aviva have 
provided a satisfactory emergency service. The service failed a vulnerable customer in his 
time of need.
Mr T had no choice but to commission his own plumber to fix the hot water issue. So, whilst 
the policy says work had to be pre-approved, I dont think its fair that Aviva apply this clause 
in this instance. Mr T was limited in what he could do, so I think Mr T should be able to 
recover his full costs. I intend that Aviva reimburse the full costs to fix the hot water issue on 
production of valid receipts (less £276.07 which it has already contributed). As Mr T has 
been without this money, Aviva should pay 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
the claim to the date it is settled.
Mr T has suffered hardship in this sustained period, he has have been without the use of 
reliable hot water and the whole situation wouldve been very stressful  especially so, due 
to his vulnerability. Mr T has said he has needed boil water in a pan to have access to hot 
water, which wouldve a considerable safety hazard and inconvenience. Therefore, I intend 
to award £300 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr T accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
Aviva didnt have anything more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:Reimburse the full costs to fix the hot water issue on production of valid receipts (less 
£276.07 which it has already contributed), plus 8% simple interest** per annum from 
the date of the claim to the date it is settled.
Pay £300 compensation  for distress and inconvenience*.
*Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it that Mr T accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
**HM Revenue and Customs requires Aviva Insurance Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Aviva must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Mr T asks for 
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman