DRN-2972252
The complaint
Mr L complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly rejected his legal 
expenses insurance claim.
References to RSA include actions and submissions from its agent that handled the claim on 
RSAs behalf. 
What happened
Mr L purchased legal expenses cover at the end of December 2019. 
He was made redundant in August 2020 and felt hed been unfairly dismissed and 
discriminated against.
Much of his evidence included incidents in 2018 and early 2019 which he considered 
to be harassment, bullying and discriminatory.
RSA rejected the claim based on a general exclusion in the policy for any event, 
dispute or cause of action that first happened or started before taking out the policy.
Mr L challenged this on the basis that past incidents (predating the policy start date) 
simply added weight to more recent events during the policy.
RSA stood by its original decision as an ACAS certificate issued in November 2020 
specifically cited categories of behaviour supporting Mr Ls claim regarding the 
redundancy decision that took place well before the policy commenced. 
The acts of the employer that Mr L complains about to support his unfair dismissal 
case related to continuing failures he was aware of (including compliance with 
Occupational Health recommendations).
And it is this that forms the basis of his case for unfair dismissal.
Our investigator didnt think RSA had acted unfairly.
She said the issues Mr L complained of (about his employer) that led to his 
redundancy had occurred when he bought the policy.
As those issues would be directly relevant in the tribunal RSA wouldnt have to help 
under the policy.
She agreed RSA had applied the general exclusion fairly as the issues leading to 
redundancy pre-dated the policy.
Mr L accepted some incidents occurred before the policy, but said RSA should cover 
legal costs as the unfair dismissal occurred within the policy period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr L wasnt made redundant until August 2020, and thats within the policy period, Im 
not persuaded that the context leading up to the redundancy is irrelevant for the purposes of 
whether he has cover under the policy. 
As stated earlier, the policy has a specific exclusion for any event, dispute or cause of action 
that first happened or started before taking out the policy. Ive read through all the 
information thats been provided and it is clear events from 2018 and 2019 (all before the 
policy starting) are relied on by Mr L as evidence to support his case that he was unfairly 
dismissed, harassed, bullied and discriminated against. Indeed, Mr L cited in a Statement of 
Claimant that he raised a grievance in July 2020, in view of the fact that the redundancy 
selection was unfair and discriminatory and had failed to take into account the discrimination 
I had suffered during the period prior to June 2019 which is the period in which I was being 
assessed.
The information is replete with references to incidents and events prior to the policy starting 
and the reason Mr L believes he was unfairly dismissed is to a very large extent, based on 
events prior to the date he bought the policy. The events and incidents hes cited are all part 
and parcel of the behaviour and conduct of his employer that Mr L relies on for his unfair 
dismissal claim.
Like the investigator Im satisfied the policy doesnt cover his unfair dismissal insurance 
claim and so Im satisfied RSA has treated him fairly in all the circumstances. 
  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman