DRN-2204166
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Z complain that Nationwide Building Society gave them unsuitable advice 
on their joint decreasing term assurance (DTA) policy.
What happened
In 2011, Mr and Mrs Z say they applied for an interest only mortgage. Alongside 
this Nationwide recommended a joint DTA policy which they say was unsuitable.
Nationwide says when Mr and Mrs Z initially applied for their mortgage in 2011 they had 
opted for a repayment mortgage. It was on this basis that its advisor recommended a 
joint DTA policy. However, it says Mr and Mrs Z later changed their mortgage type to an 
interest only mortgage, but the protection policy wasnt amended. Nationwide accepts 
that a joint DTA policy was not suitable for an interest only mortgage and offered £200 
for the inconvenience caused.
In 2016 when Mr and Mrs Z applied for a further advance their DTA policy was amended 
to the correct level of protection, a level term assurance (LTA) policy. Nationwide says
Mr and Mrs Z havent been disadvantaged as a result of this, because it says they 
wouldve paid more towards the cost of their cover had the correct policy been in place 
from the outset.
Mr and Mrs Z were unhappy with Nationwides response, so they brought their complaint 
to us. They told us they would like more compensation and they would like Nationwide to 
refund all their premiums paid on the DTA policy. They also say their monthly premium 
on the LTA policy is more expensive now than it wouldve been had they taken it out in 
2011.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She thought £200 compensation was 
reasonable, but she didnt think it would be fair for Nationwide to refund all the premiums 
on the DTA policy as Mr and Mrs Z had the benefit of having the cover in place. 
However, she calculated that Mr and Mrs Z wouldve paid less in overall premiums over 
the lifetime of the cover had the LTA policy been in place from 2011 as the policy cost 
more in 2016. She asked Nationwide to ensure Mr and Mrs Z do not pay more in 
premiums over the lifetime of the cover then they should.
Nationwide disagreed. It says the comparison of the premiums in 2011 and 2016 are not 
like for like as Mr and Mrs Zs age and medical information wouldve differed. It also says
Mr Zs financial background meant he had a high level of financial acumen, so he 
wouldve had sufficient understanding and knowledge to review the set-up of his 
mortgage and protection needs to ensure it was appropriate for his circumstances.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been referred to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I made a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to uphold this complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Zs complaint - Ill explain my reasons why.
It is not in dispute that Nationwide sold Mr and Mrs Z a DTA policy in 2011 on an 
interest only mortgage, when the suitable policy wouldve been a LTA policy. In 2016 
when
Mr and Mrs Z applied for a further advance, Nationwide corrected its error on the original 
interest only mortgage by changing Mr and Mrs Zs policy to an LTA policy for the 
remaining term.
Mr and Mrs Z says Nationwide should refund the premiums they paid on the DTA policy 
as it was unsuitable. But Im not persuaded it should. I say this because whilst Mr and Mrs 
Z did have the incorrect level of cover in place, they still had access to some level of 
protection during that period of time. So, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs 
Z to have a refund of all premiums whilst having still benefited from the protection it did 
offer as some level of protection was suitable for them. In addition, the DTA policy cost 
less than the LTA policy wouldve cost them so they hadnt financially lost out between 
2011 to 2016.
However, I must now go on to consider whether Mr and Mrs Z has since 2016 financially 
lost out and will continue to lose out over the remaining term of LTA policy because of 
Nationwides error.
Mr and Mrs Z have been paying £171.22 per month since 2016 when the DTA policy was 
cancelled and the LTA policy was purchased. Mr and Mrs Zs terms and conditions sets 
out that the premiums for the LTA will not change. Mr and Mrs Z say the monthly premium 
for the LTA policy cost them more when they took it out in 2016 than it wouldve cost them 
in 2011 had it been in place then. Nationwide has told us that if Mr and Mrs Z had 
purchased the policy in 2011 then the monthly premium wouldve been £145.74. So, Mr 
and Mrs Z have clearly been disadvantaged.
Nationwide says the increase in the monthly premium price for the LTA policy since 2011 
in comparison to 2016 is because of Mr and Mrs Zs circumstances changing such as 
their age and medical information. I accept this may be the reason for the difference in 
price, but that does not change the fact that had the LTA policy been sold in 2011 as it 
shouldve been, then the monthly premiums wouldve been less than what Mr and Mrs Z 
are paying for the policy since 2016.
Nationwide also feels strongly about Mr Zs financial background given his length of 
employment in financial services both in 2011 and in 2016. Nationwide says not only did 
Mr Z have the financial understanding and knowledge, but he also had a responsibility 
to review the set-up of his mortgage and protection needs to ensure it was appropriate 
for his circumstances. Nationwide feel this should not be overlooked.
I note Nationwides comments here, but Im not persuaded. I say this because Nationwide 
provided advice, therefore it needed to ensure the product it sold was suitable. The DTA 
policy on an interest only mortgage was clearly unsuitable. Mr Z may have had some 
financial knowledge, but Ive seen insufficient evidence to persuade me that this meant he 
understood which type of policy he ought to have taken out. And if he did understand the 
difference, I think its unlikely he wouldve deliberately chosen to accept an unsuitable 
policy.For these reasons, Im intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Zs complaint. As such, I 
consider Nationwide ought to compensate them.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs Z agreed with my provisional decision. Nationwide said it disagreed for the 
reasons it previously stated in its earlier submission and had nothing further to add or any 
further evidence to provide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Z accepted my provisional decision, but Nationwide disagreed for the reasons its 
previously stated. In short, its reasons were:
the comparison of the premiums in 2011 and 2016 are not like for like as Mr and 
Mrs Zs age and medical information wouldve differed. 
Mr Zs financial background meant he had a high level of financial acumen, so he 
wouldve had sufficient understanding and knowledge to review the set-up of his 
mortgage and protection needs to ensure it was appropriate for his circumstances
As Ive previously said, whilst I accept this may be the reason for the difference in price, 
that does not change the fact that if the LTA policy had been sold in 2011 as it shouldve 
been, then the monthly premiums wouldve been less than what Mr and Mrs Z are paying 
for the policy since 2016. 
Nationwide provided advice, therefore it needed to ensure the product it sold was suitable. 
The DTA policy on an interest only mortgage was clearly unsuitable. Mr Z may have had 
some financial knowledge, but Ive seen insufficient evidence to persuade me that this 
meant he understood which type of policy he ought to have taken out. And if he did 
understand the difference, I think its unlikely he wouldve deliberately chosen to accept an 
unsuitable policy.
Nationwide had no further comments to add so Ive no reason to change my mind and 
depart from my provisional findings. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings as, 
set out above, are now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
When looking to put things right for Mr and Mrs Z, my aim is to put them as close as 
possible to the position they wouldve been in but for Nationwides error.
As Ive said above, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Z have been disadvantaged. 
Because Nationwide do not administer the policy, to put things right I think 
Nationwide should calculate any compensation due as follows:
calculate how much Mr and Mrs Z paid for the DTA policy from 2011 to 2016, 
and then add that figure to the price Mr and Mrs Z will be paying for LTA policy 
from 2016 until the end of the term (A)  the actual value
calculate how much Mr and Mrs Z wouldve paid for the LTA policy from 2011 
(had it been sold then) until the end of the term (B)  the fair value
if A is greater than B, Nationwide should pay Mr and Mrs Z the differenceif B is greater than A, then Mr and Mrs Z havent suffered a financial loss and 
there will be no financial compensation to pay
Nationwide offered to pay £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused to Mr and 
Mrs Z because of the incorrect advice it provided. Mr and Mrs Z dont think this amount is 
sufficient and would like it to pay more. I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs Z have been 
paying more for the LTA policy for the last few years and I understand that this wouldve 
caused them some trouble and upset when they found out about it. But theyve had 
protection throughout and paid less between 2011 and 2016 when the DTA policy was in 
place. So overall, taking this into account, I think £200 compensation is a fair and 
reasonable. Nationwide has told us that it already paid Mr and Mrs Z £200 in 2019, so I 
wont be asking it to pay anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Zs complaint.
Nationwide Building Society must pay any compensation due to Mr and Mrs Z as Ive 
outlined above within 28 days of when we tell it Mr and Mrs Z has accepted my final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Asia Khanam
Ombudsman