DRN-2135969
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Evolution Insurance Company Limited turned down a claim on her
motor breakdown insurance policy.
For ease of reading, any reference to Evolution includes its agents
What happened
Mrs M called Evolution as her car had broken down and she thought it needed taking to a
garage for repair. She said she had a flat tyre and had tried to use the aerosol can which
came with the car to inflate the tyre. As this hadnt worked Mrs M called Evolution.
Evolution reviewed Mrs Ms claim and said it wasnt something they would cover as Mrs M
didnt have a spare tyre. At the time Mrs M had her dog with her which is unable to walk very
far due to a medical condition. Mrs M also tried to arrange a taxi or another way home but
couldnt. Because of this she then drove the car with a flat tyre to the garage which caused
additional damage to the wheel.
As Mrs M didnt think Evolution had dealt with her claim fairly she complained. Evolution
reviewed the claim and said her policy only provides cover where the car is rendered
completely immobile by a mechanical or electrical fault. Evolution also said they will provide
assistance with a wheel change but where the tools needed arent available, theyre unable
to assist.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 August 2020 where I said: 
In Evolutions final response letter its said the policy defines breakdown as electrical or
mechanical failure which renders the vehicle immobilised, including punctures where you
are unable to change the wheel yourself. This term differs to the one in the policy document
Mrs M has provided, as Evolution havent provided us with a copy of the policy document,
Im satisfied the one Mrs M has provided us is the correct one. I say this because its likely to
be what she was given when the policy was taken out, so Im going to base my decision on
the terms in that document.
The terms of Mrs Ms policy say if her car suffers a breakdown then Evolution will send
roadside assistance to attempt to repair the car. They go on to say if the car cant be
repaired then they will arrange recovery to a local garage. The policy defines breakdown as
an electrical or mechanical failure which immediately renders the vehicle immobile.
Even if I used the term quoted in Evolutions final response letter, it says punctures are
covered where you cant change the wheel yourself. Im satisfied Mrs Ms puncture meets
the definition of a breakdown in both situations. I say this because while she did drive the car
after she had a puncture, the car wasnt in a safe or sensible condition to be driven. Mrs M
only drove it as she had no other option, it also caused more damage to the car by being
driven. So Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to define it as immobile, and the term
Evolution quoted in the final response letter also refers to punctures.
The exclusion Evolution have relied on says where the service cannot be affected because
the vehicle does not carry a spare wheel, aerosol kit, appropriate jack or, the locking
mechanism for the wheels are not immediately available to remove the wheels. In Mrs Ms
case her car did have an aerosol kit which shed tried, Mrs M also said the tyre had split.
Evolution said as Mrs M didnt have a spare wheel, they were unable to help. But not all cars
have a spare wheel, instead some cars have an aerosol can or run flat tyres. In Mrs Ms
case she had an aerosol can, so Im satisfied she had what she was supposed to. Im
therefore not persuaded this term has been applied fairly or that Evolution was prejudiced by
Mrs M not having something she should.
As Im persuaded Mrs Ms car was immobile and that Evolution havent shown why its fair
and reasonable to apply the exclusion, I dont think they should have turned down her claim
and refused her assistance. And Mrs M shouldnt have been forced to drive her car when it
wasnt in a condition to be driven, which caused more damage to it. Mrs M explained she
paid £170 to repair her wheel and tyre. Shes said that she doesnt know how much of this
was to repair the wheel and how much was for the tyre as she no longer has the receipt.
It wouldnt be fair for me to tell Evolution to pay for a new tyre as this cost wasnt their fault or
covered by the policy. Ive therefore looked online at the cost of a tyre for Mrs Ms car and
they cost around £55. If I deduct this from the amount she paid, then Mrs M is likely to have
paid £115 to repair her wheel. This cost also seems reasonable for an alloy wheel repair. As
Mrs Ms wheel was damaged because of Evolutions error they should pay Mrs M the £115
she paid to repair her wheel. Im also satisfied Evolution caused Mrs M additional distress
and inconvenience by not coming out to assist her when they should and forcing her to drive
her car when it wasnt in a condition to be driven. Evolution should also pay Mrs M an
additional £100 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience this caused her.
Mrs M responded and accepted my provisional decision. Evolution didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any additional comments, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. I 
require Evolution Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs M £215 for her wheel repair and 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Alex NewmanOmbudsman