DRN-1611818
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with how Legal & General (L&G) categorised their home 
insurance claim. L&G are now owned by Fairmead Insurance Limited, who are ultimately 
responsible for this complaint. But for ease, Ill only refer to L&G in the decision. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision:
Following unusually heavy rain in June 2019, water came into Mr and Mrs Ps home 
through the patio doors, damaging some of the flooring. They made a claim on their 
home insurance, which L&G accepted under the flood peril and a settlement was 
agreed.
Mr and Mrs P disagree that the damage was caused by a flood  they say it was 
caused by a storm. And theyre unhappy because having a flood claim has meant 
that their premiums have increased.
L&G say that what happened didnt meet the policys definition of a storm, and that 
because water entered their home from the ground up, it was a flood.
I sent my provisional findings on 3 March 2021, which didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint. While I thought there were storm conditions, I didnt think it was the 
proximate cause of the damage. That was caused by the build up and ingress of 
water  so I think L&G acted fairly in saying it was a flood. 
L&G agreed with my provisional findings. Mr and Mrs P didnt. In summary they said:
oThe sheer volume of water from the storm meant the drains couldnt cope. So 
it was the storm that caused the damage. 
oDespite being right that there were storm conditions, theyre now on the flood 
risk register  meaning extortionate premiums. They think there should be 
different levels of flood risk and some sort of protected no claims facility for 
this type of minor flooding.
oOur investigator based his view on the storm criteria not being met. Also, 
water didnt just come from the ground up  it wouldve cascaded over the top 
from the gutters being overwhelmed too. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ps reply, Ive not changed my mind about the 
outcome to this complaint. Ill explain why: 
Mr and Mrs P point out how the volume of water from the storm wouldve meant the 
drains couldnt cope. And my provisional findings agreed the storm caused water to 
build up. But Im not satisfied that the storm itself caused the damage  that 
happened because the water built up and flooded that property.
In other words, the storm led to a flood, which caused the damage. And even if some 
of the water came from gutters that had been overwhelmed, it remains the case that 
this wouldve added to the build-up of water below  which then flooded into Mr and 
Mrs Ps home. 
As I said before, it would be unusual for rainfall, even intense rainfall, to cause 
damage thats typical of a storm. Its far more common that heavy rainfall will lead to 
flooding, which is what I believe happened here. 
I note Mr and Mrs Ps understandable frustrations about the situation this puts them 
in. But how insurers determine risk doesnt mean I could reasonably ask L&G to 
categorise this claim differently, when I think a flood is an accurate reflection of what 
happened here. 
Ive also considered their comments about what our investigator said  and I 
reassure them Ive reviewed everything, including their dealings with our investigator. 
But as an ombudsman making a final decision, Ive carried out my own independent 
investigation. Thats why I sent my provisional findings first, to explain my reasons for 
not upholding this complaint and to invite further comments. 
I realise this means a lot to Mr and Mrs P, but my decision is not to uphold their complaint. 
For completeness, Ive explained my reasoning from my provisional findings again below: 
I agree with Mr and Mrs P that there were storm conditions around the time of the 
damage. Having reviewed the rain radar reports, I think theyre right to say there 
were localised torrential downpours where they lived  and I consider it likely these 
wouldve met L&Gs definition of a storm (25mm of rainfall per hour).
But, to be satisfied that the damage shouldve been looked at under the storm peril, 
its not enough for me to conclude that storm conditions were present. Ive also got to 
be satisfied that the storm, and not a flood, was the proximate cause of the damage 
to Mr and Mrs Ps flooring.
Here, it seems that the storm caused water to build up  and when it didnt have 
anywhere to go, it entered Mr and Mrs Ps home, causing damage to their flooring.
That means that the proximate cause of the damage was the build up and ingress of 
water  or, more naturally put, a flood. It wasnt, for example, that the pressure from 
the rainfall itself caused damage to Mr and Mrs Ps property. Indeed, it would be 
unusual to see that rainfall alone could cause damage thats typical of a storm.
It follows that I think the storm was the background occasion rather than the 
dominant and effective cause. So Im satisfied that L&G fairly concluded that this 
claim should fall under the flood peril.
I realise this will be disappointing news for Mr and Mrs P. I do understand their 
frustration that what happened here wasnt how flood claims commonly happen  for 
example, they dont live near a river which had burst its banks. But what caused the 
flood isnt the material question here  its what was the proximate cause of the damage. And for the reasons Ive explained, I think it correctly falls under the flood 
peril. 
Mr and Mrs P say they might not have continued with the claim had they realised it 
would be looked at as a flood. But from the outset, Mr P refers to flooding and the 
claims adviser refers to flood damage. So, I dont think theyve been misled here.
In any event, its difficult to say they wouldnt have proceeded, particularly given that 
the cash settlement for the flood claim was a significant sum. Moreover, claimed for 
or not, such damage (and its cause) would always need to be disclosed as a fact 
material to the risk of covering this property. So there would always be potentially 
adverse consequences for Mr and Mrs P  e.g. a higher premium. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here and in my provisional decision of 3 March 2021, I dont 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman