DRN-2188258
The complaint
Miss O complains that Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Miss O was given a single loan by Buddy Loans. She borrowed £3,750 in February 2019 
and agreed to repay the loan in 60 monthly instalments. Miss Os mother agreed to act as 
guarantor for the loan. A balance remained outstanding on the loan when Miss O made her 
complaint.
More recently Miss O has told us about some problems in the way Buddy Loans has 
reported her repayments to a credit reference agency. That issue didnt form part of her 
original complaint, and I have little information about the matter. So it isnt something that 
I will deal with as part of this decision. Here I will only be considering what happened when 
Miss O was approved for the loan in February 2019. If Miss O remains unhappy with the way 
her recent repayments have been reported to the credit reference agency, she will need to 
make a further complaint to the lender.
Miss Os complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the 
information Buddy Loans gathered from Miss O before agreeing the loan should have led the 
lender to ask further questions. And he thought some additional information would have led 
Buddy Loans to conclude that it was unlikely that Miss O could afford to repay this loan in a 
sustainable manner. So he didnt think the loan should have been agreed and he asked 
Buddy Loans to put things right for Miss O.
Buddy Loans didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Miss O accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Miss Os complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Buddy Loans gave this loan to Miss O required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay 
what she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Buddy Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss O. 
In practice this meant that Buddy Loans had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Miss O undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Buddy Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to 
consider the impact of any repayments on Miss O. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Buddy Loans did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Miss O.
Buddy Loans gathered some information from Miss O before it agreed the loan. It asked her 
for details of her income, and her normal expenditure. It checked her credit file to assess 
how much she was paying to other creditors and identify any problems with how she was 
managing her other accounts. And it asked Miss O for copies of her wage slips and bank 
statements so it could confirm what shed said about her income.
Miss O was entering into a significant commitment with Buddy Loans. She would need to 
make monthly repayments for a period of up to five years. So I think it was right that 
Buddy Loans wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about 
Miss Os financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks it did 
were sufficient to achieve that aim. I think that Buddy Loans checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to any questions that are raised by those checks. That will sometime lead 
a lender to want to gather more information from a consumer, or even to decline the loan 
application outright. And that is what I think should have happened here.
I have listened carefully to the phone calls that took place between Miss O and Buddy Loans 
during the application process. I think from those calls Buddy Loans should have had great 
concerns about whether Miss O would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner.It is clear that, when she applied for this loan, Miss Os income was irregular in nature. 
Before even making an application for a loan Miss O asked Buddy Loans what evidence it 
might need of her income. On the first call about her actual application Miss O told 
Buddy Loans that her monthly income was the equivalent of £2,153 although she was paid 
weekly and not regularly. Following some initial checks Buddy Loans decided to use an 
income of £1,217 to support Miss Os application. And as Ill explain below I dont even think 
it was reasonable for Buddy Loans to use that level of income.
Lending of this nature is covered by the regulators CONC rules. Within those regulations, 
CONC states that a firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit 
agreement where the firm knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that the customer has 
not been truthful in completing the application in relation to information relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment. I think Buddy Loans should have had some concerns over 
the veracity of the information that Miss O provided.
I accept that Miss Os income was irregular. She has told us that she was employed on a 
series of zero hours contracts. So it would be unlikely that she would see the same income 
from month to month. And from what Miss O told Buddy Loans it does seem that at the time 
of her application she was anticipating an increase in her income from obtaining work from a 
number of different agencies. Whilst I dont think Miss O was being deliberately untruthful 
I think it should have been clear to Buddy Loans that Miss Os declared income was an 
expectation, without any strong foundation, of what she might earn in the future.
I think given the uncertainty over Miss Os income that the only reasonable basis that 
Buddy Loans could use to assess the affordability of the loan would have been to consider 
what Miss O had earned in the past. To an extent Buddy Loans did this by asking Miss O for 
some copies of her bank statements. But I am unable to reach the same conclusions as the 
lender about what her income was likely to be.
In the three months before the loan was taken, Miss O earned £379, £441, and £729. Whilst 
it is clear that those earnings showed a promising upward trend, they still had some way to 
go to match the amount that Buddy Loans used in its affordability assessment.
When considering her likely expenditure, Miss O told Buddy Loans that she expected it to 
change markedly after the loan had been agreed. She said that since she was taking on the 
cost of the loan, that would be used to purchase furniture, that her partner would pay the 
majority of the remaining bills, including the rent. Whilst that might have been entirely true, 
I think that Buddy Loans was taking an unnecessary risk by accepting Miss Os expectation 
of what would happen in the future before those plans were put into place.
Buddy Loans check of Miss Os credit file showed that she had faced problems managing 
credit in the past. Whilst those problems were some time ago, delinquent and defaulted 
accounts still remained unpaid. Miss O said that she intended to correct the problems in the 
near future, but once more that seems to have been an expectation without any firm 
foundation. And Buddy Loans could see that just a few months before Miss O had taken a 
larger loan of over £5,000 from another lender. That loan was also guaranteed by Miss Os 
mother.
So, looking at the results of the checks that Buddy Loans performed on Miss Os application, 
I cannot see that the lender could have any great confidence in her income, expenditure, or 
that her finances were not under pressure. So I dont think it was reasonable for 
Buddy Loans to give this loan to Miss O and it needs to put things right.Putting things right
I dont think Buddy Loans should have agreed to lend to Miss O in February 2019. So 
Buddy Loans should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Miss O has made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Miss Os loan account as Ive directed results in Miss O effectively 
having made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Buddy Loans 
should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of 
settlement. 
If reworking Miss Os loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind Buddy Loans that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree 
an affordable repayment plan with Miss O.
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Os credit file in relation to the 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Buddy Loans must give Miss O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Os complaint and direct Advancis Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman