DRN-3013535
The complaint
This is a complaint that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to Mrs L.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1996. RBS sold Mrs L the policy 
when she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint came to me. 
Before giving my final decision, I wanted to explain my view on the effect of the health 
condition Mrs L had, at the start of the policy. This is to give everyone a chance to comment 
further.  I wrote a provisional decision saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Mrs L and her representatives have said, but my current view is 
that the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
The PPI was set out as an option on the form, and Mrs L ticked to apply for it. So I 
think shed have understood it was an optional extra.
RBS didnt make a personal recommendation to Mrs L based on her individual 
circumstances. So it was up to Mrs L to decide if it was suitable for her. But RBS did 
have to give her enough clear information for her to make that choice. And I cant be 
sure it did this  at least the information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont 
know whether other information was given at the same time.
Mrs Ls representatives have suggested that this is a reason to uphold the complaint. 
But I dont agree. In such a situation, I have to think instead about whether better 
information is likely to have made a difference to whether Mrs L took the PPI. And I 
dont think its likely to have.
Mrs L indicated on the form that she did want this kind of cover at the time. The price 
itself wasnt especially high, and the number of months the PPI could have paid out was 
likely to have been for longer than her employer sick pay lasted. And shes said she 
didnt have other means to fall back on to meet the payments (on top of meeting her 
other living costs)  and even if she did have savings or such like, the PPI would have 
put off the time shed need to fall back on that. So I dont think better information about 
costs and limitations of benefits is likely to have made her decide not to take it. I 
acknowledge that I cant be sure  but I do have to think about whats most likely to 
have happened.
Mrs L has said she was diagnosed with a medical condition after the PPI started, but 
that she already had symptoms before the start date. Because of this, depending on 
the exact circumstances, Mrs L might not have been covered if she needed to claim 
under the PPI as a result of the medical condition. I think its likely RBS didnt draw this 
to her attention. But I dont have good evidence to say that knowing about this 
limitation would have put her off taking the PPI.
I say this because, given that it was undiagnosed, it would appear not to have been at 
a stage where shed have expected to take significant time off work as a result of it. 
And its not the kind of condition, except in its most extreme form, that would usually 
lead to significant absence from work. So I dont think, at the time, shed have thought 
the medical condition would be likely to lead to her making a claim. And she would still 
have benefited from the other cover the PPI gave, for other medical conditions and 
accidents, and for unemployment.
So my current view is that the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
If I confirm this view, it means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mrs L. But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L 
because:
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs L about that. Because RBS didnt 
tell Mrs L, that was unfair.
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
RBS said it had nothing further to add in response to my provisional decision. Mrs L and her 
representatives didnt comment further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Ive not found that the PPI was mis-sold 
to Mrs L. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs L any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, and so Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman