DRN-3317655
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs P are unhappy with the service they received from Home in One Financial 
Services Ltd (HIO) when they applied for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr R and Mrs P sought mortgage advice from a company which is the appointed 
representative of HIO. In this provisional decision, Ill refer to Mr R only for ease of reference. 
After discussing Mr Rs finances and needs, HIOs agent identified two potential mortgage 
products (from lenders A and B) that met Mr Rs needs, and which he met the qualifying 
criteria for. They were similar in cost but lender A had a quicker application-to-offer 
turnaround time, which is the product Mr R chose, and agreed for HIO to submit an 
application on his behalf. 
However, when submitting the application, HIOs agent failed to spot that the product shed 
recommended and applied for was no longer available. She also failed to spot the product 
she actually applied for was at a higher interest rate than shed told Mr R. And Mr R only 
became aware of this when he received a mortgage offer six weeks later. 
Mr R was unhappy with this, and asked HIO to find out why this happened. HIO made 
enquiries, and it transpired a specialist mortgage product portal had mistakenly shown the 
lower rate product to be available. However, HIO acknowledged their advisor would have 
known  at the point of making the application  the product wasnt available on the lenders 
website and should have seen the product she applied for was clearly at a higher interest 
rate. HIO made enquiries with lender A to see if it would be prepared to honour the lower-
rate, but the lender refused as the lower-rate product had in fact been removed from sale a 
few months earlier. This prompted Mr R to complain to HIO.
HIO admitted their advisor had made mistakes. HIO apologised for the misleading 
information provided by their advisor, and the poor service Mr R received. But HIO thought 
on balance, even after becoming aware the lower-rate lender A product was never 
available, its likely Mr R would still have chosen the higher rate lender A product if it had 
been offered. They believe Mr R was driven by the need for a quick turnaround which this 
lender provided. So, whilst agreeing the advisor acted negligently in dealing with Mr R, HIO 
believed he hadnt suffered a loss as a result. 
Mr R was also unhappy the advisor failed to tell him his chosen solicitor wasnt on lender As 
approved list of conveyancers, meaning hed ended up having to engage a different 
(approved) firm and in doing so duplicate some of his costs. HIO agreed and upheld this 
complaint. And as compensation for their service failings, and the duplicate costs incurred, 
HIO offered to waive their £425 fee and pay Mr R a further £400 compensation for the 
distress theyd caused.
Unhappy with this, Mr R brought his complaint to us. However, our investigator thought 
HIOs compensation offer represented a fair amount. So, Mr R asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, and its been passed to me to consider and issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 February 2022, in which I explained 
that Id reached a different outcome to our investigator and intended to uphold this 
complaint. That provisional decision said as follows: 
Dealing with the solicitor panel complaint first, HIO admit their mistake caused Mr R to incur 
duplicate and avoidable extra fees. Mr R has told us that he incurred £433 in extra costs as 
a result of this. I think HIOs offer to waive their £425 fee provides fair compensation for 
these extra fees incurred, and I wont be asking them to do anything further in this regard. 
Regarding the advice/application complaint, HIO have said they believe Mr R would still 
likely have chosen the more expensive product at the outset because of application 
processing benefits associated with lender A. And further, HIO also said that even after 
becoming aware of the higher-rate mortgage offer, Mr R still wasnt close to exchange, and 
had enough time to seek alternative finance if he was unhappy with the rate but chose not to 
do this. I disagree on both counts. 
So, the first thing for me to consider is what would Mr R have done had he been given 
accurate product information. Clearly, its not possible to know this for certain, so I must 
consider what I think Mr R is most likely to have done. And, having considered what Mr R 
and HIO have said, Im inclined to think Mr R would have chosen the cheaper lender B 
product that HIO had initially identified. 
HIO initially identified two products (from lenders A and B) as suitable for Mr R. Both had 
very similar interest rates/cost. Lender A had faster application-to-offer processing times 
than lender B, which Mr R agrees was a key consideration at the time. HIO have told us 
that lender A had a processing time of just over two weeks compared to a minimum of four 
weeks (and sometimes much longer) for lender B. Also, HIO has told us there was a daily 
limit applied to applications for lender B, creating a potential uncertainty as to whether an 
application to B would even have been possible. So, at the time of HIOs initial advice, it 
seems clear why Mr R chose the lender A option. 
But, whilst I acknowledge that speed/processing benefits were the driving force behind the 
initial choice, the issue of cost didnt need to be actively considered  because the products 
had almost identical rates. Or put another way, Mr R didnt need to weigh up the importance 
of cost against the better processing times lender A provided. And whilst speed of 
processing was important, completion didnt take place until three months after the 
application was made  so there was some time for delays to be accommodated. 
And Mr R now says, had he been provided with an accurate comparison at the time  
between a quicker more expensive lender A product, and a cheaper slower/less certain 
lender B product  hed have chosen to apply to lender B.
I think this is supported by what Mr R did as soon as he was told the lender A product HIO 
applied for was considerably more expensive. He asked HIO to challenge the rate hed been 
offered, and HIO made various unsuccessful attempts to see if lender A would agree to 
honour the lower rate. It appears that costs immediately became a key issue for Mr R. So, I 
dont agree with HIOs comment that, even had Mr R known he was applying for a more 
expensive product, hed have agreed to it at the expense of the cheaper lender B product. I think its more likely, when faced with an accurate choice, hed have chosen the less 
expensive lender B option.   
HIO have also said Mr R still had a choice to accept the higher-rate offer or seek a new 
lender  and the fact he willingly chose to accept the higher-rate is evidence that it was the 
most suitable. However, by this time his completion deadline was approaching  he 
completed six weeks after this date. And Im aware the completion coincided with a separate 
buy-to-let application/completion on an existing property, adding an extra layer of 
process/complexity to the transaction. 
Mr R has told us that he chose to accept the higher-rate offer because, in the circumstances, 
he had no choice  the timing was too tight by then to risk starting another application 
process. And given the chronology Ive set out  only six weeks until multiple completions  
Im inclined to agree with him. So, I dont think Mr R willingly accepted the higher-rate deal  
on balance I think he felt he effectively had little choice but to accept it.
Mr R says hes ended up paying a lot more for his mortgage than would have been the case 
had he been able to choose the cheaper lender B option. Given what Ive said above, I 
think HIO is responsible for those extra costs, and should compensate Mr R for these  to 
put him in the position he would have been in, as much as possible, had he chosen the 
lender B option.
   
HIO have confirmed the monthly cost of the applied-for lender A product was about £108 
per month more expensive than the original lender B product. And over the two-year fixed 
term of each product, that amounts to £2,592 extra that Mr R had to pay. However, there 
were higher fees associated with the lender B product which Mr R would have had to pay, 
which reduces that sum to £1,786. So, I think HIO should pay this to Mr R. 
Its also clear this episode has caused Mr R a considerable amount of distress, something 
HIO have already acknowledged, and offered to pay £400 to reflect this. I think this is a fair 
amount in the circumstances and so I wont be asking HIO to increase it. 
So, to conclude, I think HIOs offer to waive their £425 success fee provides fair 
compensation for the extra solicitor costs Mr R incurred. And their offer of £400 
compensation for distress is fair. But I think HIO should pay Mr R £1,786 to reimburse him 
for the extra mortgage costs hes had to pay.
Both HIO and Mr R have responded accepting the above outcomes, without further 
comment.
My final decision
So, for the reasons set out above, Home in One Financial Services Ltd must pay Mr R and 
Mrs P £1,782 for the extra mortgage costs theyve incurred, and  if not already paid to Mr R 
and Mrs P - £400 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 02 March 2022.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman