DRN-3728696
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain about being mis-sold their buildings and contents insurance by 
One Sure Insurance Limited (One Sure). 
What happened
Mr K and Mrs Ks personal belongings were taken after their van was broken into while they 
were away from home. They contacted One Sure and were told they were covered up to 
£32,000. They then contacted the insurer who told them they were covered up to £15,000. 
Mr K and Mrs Ks claim was for more than £15,000 and believed they were covered up to 
£32,000 as this is what One Sure had told them. It later turned out that Mr K and Mrs K were 
covered up to £15,000 so they complained about being mis-sold the policy and about not 
receiving the policy booklet when they took out the policy.  
One Sure responded and explained all renewal documents had been posted to Mr K and 
Mrs K as well as being available electronically. They said the covering letter asked Mr K and 
Mrs K to check all documents to ensure they meet their requirements.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K and Mrs K. He thought One Sure hadnt mis-sold 
the policy. Mr K and Mrs K disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr K and Mrs K will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Theres no dispute around the claim circumstances. Its accepted by the parties that the 
items Mr K and Mrs K are claiming for were stolen while their van was left unattended in a 
car park. It appears the insurer has limited Mr K and Mrs Ks claim to £15,000 on the basis of 
the policy terms and conditions which say, under the heading, The following limits apply, 
for theft or attempted theft of items from any unattended vehicle£15,000. The policy 
schedule shows the sum insured under the contents insurance is £80,000 and refers to the 
total limit which applies to valuables is 40% of the contents sum insured. Mr K and Mrs K say 
they were led to believe the total sum insured would therefore be £32,000.    
 
My role here isnt to look at whether a fair decision has been made on the claim as that 
complaint would be against the insurer. Its to look at the service provided by One Sure as 
Mr K and Mrs K feel it was their responsibility to ensure they sold them a policy which was 
suitable for their needs but they failed to ensure adequate cover was provided. One Sure 
say its Mr K and Mrs Ks responsibility to check their documents are correct and are happy 
with the cover provided. In the circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded the 
responsibility to check the cover was suitable should rest with Mr K and Mrs K alone. 
Information provided by One Sure shows this was an advised sale, meaning One Sure 
recommended to Mr K and Mrs K that they should buy this policy. Therefore, in doing so, 
they had a duty to ensure they recommended cover suitable for their needs. 
Ive listened to the renewal call to determine what advice One Sure gave during the sales 
process. Mrs K calls One Sure to renew the policy during which the agent says theyll search 
the market and get the best policy and price based on their details. Mrs K says she wants a 
like for like policy to the previous year. The agent explains its a like for like policy with 
nothing changed and asks Mrs K if shes read the documents and is happy to renew. Mrs K 
queries how much the premium will be and then agrees to renew. The agent then explains 
Mr K and Mrs Ks policy has £80,000 contents [cover] and £15,000 unspecified item 
cover. The agent also explains the policy documents will be sent to Mr K and Mrs K.    
During the call, the agent does refer to the contents cover being £80,000 and, while they do 
refer to a £15,000 limit, this relates to a separate part of cover and not  as is the relevant 
issue here  the limit for theft from an unattended vehicle. There wasnt any discussion 
around this limit or Mrs K suggesting she required suitable cover for items being taken away 
from home. That said, and given that this was an advised sale, Ive looked beyond just the 
phone call to see whether One Sure acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
After Mr K and Mrs K renewed their policy, One Sure sent a confirmation letter together with 
a number of documents. One of these documents is a Demands and Needs Statement 
which sets out the level and type of cover Mr K and Mrs K requested and a suitability 
statement setting out One Sures recommendations. This says Mr K and Mrs K required a 
cost effective solution that meets their budget and needs, an effective claims handling 
service, a comparison of the market One Sure have access to in order to offer the most 
suitable policy and an optional additional cover of Family Legal Protection. 
The suitability statement then says, after searching the market, One Sure have 
recommended this product as it adequately meets Mr K and Mrs Ks overall demands and 
needs, the product is priced competitively, the insurer offers an excellent claims handling 
service, any exclusions and conditions have been reviewed and are compatible with Mr K 
and Mrs Ks requirements, the property will be covered against a wide range of risks and 
Your contents can be expensive to replace, therefore cover is offered against loss, theft, or 
damage to your personal possessions. 
Taking this into account, the information shows One Sure knew Mr K and Mrs K required 
adequate cover for theft due to owning expensive items. The cover in place for this is 
£32,000  which isnt being disputed by Mr K and Mrs K as being insufficient because their 
claim is for an amount just under this limit and is mostly for personal items such as clothing 
and accessories. The issue is the £15,000 limit which has been applied in view of the claim 
circumstances. I cant see the Demands and Needs Statement sets out any specific 
requirements for Mr K and Mrs K to have the same £32,000 limit of cover for their personal 
items if theyre stolen from a vehicle away from home. And, I cant say theres anything in 
this document which I think shouldve highlighted to One Sure that Mr K and Mrs K might 
require the same level of cover. 
Ive gone further and looked at the Statement of Fact to determine whether there is any 
information in there which shouldve highlighted to One Sure that the £15,000 limit might not 
be suitable for Mr K and Mrs K. Having reviewed this, I cant say theres any information here 
which shouldve highlighted to One Sure that a limitation of £15,000 to cover theft of 
personal items from a vehicle wouldnt be suitable for Mr K and Mrs K.   
Taking this all into account, I dont think theres any information here which shouldve 
highlighted to One Sure that the limitation of £15,000 wasnt suitable for Mr K and Mrs Ks 
needs. So, I cant say One Sure have mis-sold the policy. While I dont think its unreasonable for this limitation to have not featured in One Sures assessment of a suitable 
policy, Ive looked at whether this limitation was communicated to Mr K and Mrs K. The 
confirmation letter says the policy booklet is enclosed  and Ive seen this does refer to the 
limit of £15,000 for theft of items from an unattended vehicle. I note Mrs K says she never 
received this policy booklet and the first time she became aware it existed was during a 
phone call with One Sure to complain which is when it was sent to her.  
One Sure say at renewal all documents are sent by post and email. Theyve provided a copy 
of a letter sent to Mrs K which refers to all documents enclosed  and this includes the policy 
booklet. One Sure say all documents are also uploaded to the online self-service portal and 
theyve provided screenshots showing Mr K and Mrs Ks online portal activity and this shows 
the confirmation letter and policy documents were downloaded prior to the renewal date. The 
screenshots also show Mrs K ticked a box to agree to the Terms of Business. So, taking this 
into account, I think its more likely than not, the policy booklet was sent to Mr K and Mrs K. 
I note Mrs K says when she contacted One Sure she was told she would be covered up to 
£32,000. Then, during a phone call with the insurer, Mrs K was told the limit of cover was 
£15,000. Ive listened to a recording of a further call between Mrs K and One Sure during 
which the agent explains the limit which applies here, given the claim circumstances, is 
£15,000. I understand it will have been frustrating for Mrs K to have been given conflicting 
information, but the policy booklet does set out the relevant limit and the correct position was 
communicated to Mrs K during a further call. I note Mrs K says she was told on two 
occasions she would be covered up to £32,000 but while I agree this would appear to be an 
error, I cant say this has caused any detriment in relation to the claim. The policy booklet 
sets out what the limit is for Mr K and Mrs Ks particular claim circumstances and the position 
was corrected during a later call with One Sure.    
I understand Mr K and Mrs K firmly believe One Sure havent made the relevant policy limits 
clear and havent provided the documentation which wouldve allowed them to make an 
informed decision on whether to buy the policy. This was an advised sale, so I think there 
was a duty on the part of One Sure to ensure the policy being recommended was suitable to 
Mr K and Mrs Ks needs. And, the information Ive seen demonstrates that One Sure did 
recommend a policy which took into account Mr K and Mrs Ks needs. I acknowledge that  
Mr K and Mrs K have missed out on their claim being met in full  and I dont dispute the 
£32,000 limit is something their policy provides. But, its the circumstances leading to the 
claim which have determined the limit to be applied here. And, I cant see from the 
information One Sure had available to them at the point of renewal, that Mr K and Mrs K 
would need a higher limit for those circumstances. 
 
I understand Mr K and Mrs K will be disappointed, and I acknowledge theyve been left very 
upset at being the victims of theft. I wish to reassure Mr K and Mrs K Ive read and 
considered everything theyve sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of 
evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need 
to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection 
of the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman