DRN-1587180
The complaint
Ms P complains about how Amtrust Europe Limited have handled her sofa insurance claim.
What happened
Ms Ps daughter accidentally knocked a drink out of her hand, causing staining to her sofa. 
So in September 2018 Ms P made a claim on her policy. She also reported staining on the 
media unit from a separate incident where her daughter spilled a drink on it. 
Amtrust initially sent Ms P cleaning fluid to try to remove the stain, but she said this didnt 
work. A technician was sent in October 2018 to inspect the stains. But when they returned in 
November 2018, they said Ms P pointed out new stains they werent shown on the day of 
inspection. 
Ms P wasnt happy with the work carried out by the technician and complained to Amtrust. 
She said they didnt remove all the stains, including the ones on the media unit, and the 
stains they did work on remained.
Amtrust agreed to clean the outstanding staining to the cushions. But they said the staining 
on the media unit wouldn't be covered as they felt the staining was wear and tear - which 
was excluded from cover.
Amtrust sent a different technician to clean the sofa in December 2018 and reported the 
stains had been removed from the cushions. Ms P remained unhappy Amtrust wouldnt 
cover the media unit and with the standard of the work that was carried out by the 
technician.  She said the staining on the sofa remained. 
Ms P also said she hadnt been provided the cover she was told she would receive at the 
point of sale  so she had been mis sold the policy. She brought her complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator recommended we dont uphold Ms P complaint. He felt Amtrust treated Ms 
P fairly when handling her claim and had applied the exclusion fairly when declining part of 
her claim for the media unit. As he recognised Amtrust had not had the opportunity to 
consider Ms Ps complaint about the mis sale of the policy, he said this should be considered 
as a separate complaint.
Ms P didnt agree. She said the stains on the media unit were not wear and tear  and more 
to do with the quality of the material used. She said the technician Amtrust sent was 
unprofessional and remained unhappy with the quality of the work they carried out.
The complaint has now passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Our investigator recognised Amtrust hadnt had the chance to respond to Ms Ps complaint 
points about the mis-sale, and I can see this is being handled as a separate complaint, so I 
wont comment further here.  
Ive looked at Amtrusts handling of Ms Ps claim and whether they applied the exclusion 
fairly when declining part of her complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding Ms Ps 
complaint. I know she will be disappointed by this, but Ill explain why.
No insurance policy can cover every possible eventuality, there will always been terms, 
conditions and limits to the cover. Ms Ps policy says Amtrustwill cover you under this 
insurance against (i) the cost of removing stains or repairing damage caused by a sudden 
and unforeseen accidental event (accidental damage) to the insured items  
Beyond this there is a condition listed in the policy which says This insurance is not a 
cleaning contract and does not provide cover for the cleaning of the insured item(s) which 
may become soiled through daily use or general wear and tear. Wear and tear is defined 
within the policy as anything which happens gradually or over a sustained period of time, or 
by the accumulation of multiple stains.
I think these terms make clear the policy covers removal of staining in circumstances where 
this is caused by a sudden and unforeseen accident. But it doesnt cover staining caused by 
general use. 
Ive seen photographs of the sofa before and after Amtrust had worked on it, and the stains 
reported all appear to be removed. Ms P said the stains came back when the sofa dried but 
Im not persuaded of this by the photos shes provided. I can see some darkening and brief 
outlines of marks on the sofa but they dont look to be consistent with the original staining. 
The purpose of the policy is to remove the stains caused by the accidental damage, not to 
maintain the sofa. So as I think the stains have been removed, Im satisfied Amtrust did what 
was set out in the policy in relation to the sofa itself.
Amtrust say the staining to the media unit is consistent with a build-up of stains over time. 
And as such they say this isnt covered by the policy. Ive looked carefully at the photos, and 
I dont think Amtrust are being unreasonable in reaching that conclusion. There appears to 
be some white staining and also some rust. And given rust is unlikely to occur suddenly, I 
dont think Amtrust were unreasonable when applying the exclusion to decline this part of
Ms Ps claim. 
Amtrusts technician said when they attended Ms Ps property in November 2018, Ms P had 
pointed out new stains on the sofa. Amtrust did initially say these wouldnt be covered but a 
few days after they did arrange for these be cleaned. 
I appreciate Ms P was unhappy with the company Amtrust used for the cleaning and Ive 
noted the comments shes made about this. But Ive not seen anything to suggest theyve 
done anything incorrect or that the work they carried out was done unprofessionally. I can 
also see from the job sheets Amtrust sent a different technician in December 2018, so I think 
they did try to take her comments into consideration.
Overall, I dont think Amtrust treated Ms P unfairly. They visited Ms P on several occasions, 
and they also agreed to cover all the stains on the sofa. As she was unhappy with the 
original technician, they sent a different one in December 2018. 
And as Ive set out above Im satisfied they did what was set out in the policy and I think they 
were fair to apply the exclusion in declining part of claim for the staining on the media unit. 
So I wont be asking them to do anything else.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman