DRN-3406941
The complaint
Mr C complains about Wilson Tarquin Limited (WTL) and the fees they have charged that 
related to a successful claim for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr C received a PPI refund of almost £3,000 from Lender L in November 2019, following a 
claim for mis-sold PPI. Mr C says he dealt with Lender L directly during the claim process, 
and it was his work that led to the refund he received.
But after Mr C had received the refund, he received an invoice for £895.60 from WTL. Mr C 
was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr C was unhappy with the invoice WTL had issued, and the way they had chased him for 
payment. He explained he hadnt instructed WTL and had pursued the successful claim with 
Lender L directly. So, he wanted WTL to waive the invoice and cease any further contact.
WTL responded and didnt agree. They thought Mr C had instructed them to pursue the 
claim on his behalf through a social media website in August 2019. And they provided the 
personal information that was included in this instruction. So, they thought they had authority 
to pursue the claim. And, as the claim had been successful and Lender L had informed them 
of this, they thought they were fair to charge their fee. So, they didnt offer to do anything 
more and explained the invoice remained payable. Mr C remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They recognised Mr C disputed the 
signature on the documents he was sent by WTL. But they explained were unable to 
comment on the validity of a signature. Despite this, they explained they had received no 
evidence from WTL to show they had authority to pursue the claim or that they had 
submitted a claim to Lender L on Mr Cs behalf. So, without this evidence, our investigator 
didnt think they could be satisfied that WTLs decision to issue Mr C with an invoice for their 
fee was fair. So, our investigator recommended that WTL cancel the outstanding invoice, 
cease any further collection activity, and pay Mr C £100 to compensate him for the upset 
hed been caused. 
Mr C accepted this view. But WTL didnt respond. And while our investigator chased WTL for 
a response, it became apparent that liquidators had been appointed. Our investigator sent 
their view enclosing their recommendation to the liquidators acting on WTLs behalf. No 
response was received and because of this, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
It's important to note that WTL, or the liquidators appointed to act on their behalf, have failed 
to provide any evidence despite several requests. Because of this, Ive reached my decision 
based solely on the information available to me, making reasonable assumptions on what I 
think is most likely to have happened.
Mr C has said he pursued the claim with Lender L directly. And Ive seen Lender L sent their 
final decision letter detailing his PPI refund to him directly, with no reference of WTL within 
the correspondence Ive seen. So, Im satisfied Mr C had direct communication with Lender 
L.
But I do recognise lenders such as Lender L can contact a customer directly, even if a 
customer has instructed a company such as WTL to act on their behalf. In WTLs final 
response to Mr Cs complaint, they say they also received a copy of this letter. And they 
stated Mr C did authorise them to pursue the claim via a social media website, providing 
personal information of Mr Cs.
I dont dispute this information correlates with the information we hold for Mr C on the 
system. So, I think WTL did have Mr Cs information on file and I can appreciate why they 
would use this to justify the fee they have invoiced Mr C for. But, crucially, I dont think this 
information is enough to satisfy me WTL did have authority to act for Mr C. Or, that the work 
they completed led to the refund he received.
For me to be satisfied of this, Id need to see a copy of the Letter of Authority Mr C signed. 
And Id need to see a copy of the claim WTL submitted, as well as correspondence from 
Lender L confirming the claim had been upheld due to this submission. 
WTL have failed to provide our service with any of this information. So, without this, Ive 
relied on the Mr Cs testimony, and the copy of the final decision letter Lender L sent to him 
directly.
And having done so, I think its reasonable for me to assume that Mr C did pursue the claim 
with Lender L directly. And this is why he has disputed the invoice hes received from WTL. 
As Im unable to say WTL had authority over Mr Cs claim, or submitted it to Lender L on his 
behalf, I dont think they have acted fairly when invoicing Mr C for a fee that relates directly 
to this claim. As I dont think WTL have acted fairly, Ive then thought about what I think WTL 
should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Any director or award I make is intended to place Mr C back in the position he wouldve been 
in, had WTL acted fairly in the first instance.
In this situation, had WTL acted fairly, they wouldnt have invoiced Mr C for their fee. So, I 
think this fee should be waived and no further collection activity undertaken.
And had WTL not issued an invoice, Mr C wouldnt have felt the upset and shock I think he 
wouldve when he received the invoice. Nor would he have been inconvenienced by WTLs 
chasing for payment, which ultimately led to him raising a complaint to both WTL and our 
service. So, I think WTL should pay Mr C £100 to compensate him for the upset hes been 
caused.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint about Wilson Tarquin Limited and 
direct them to take the following action:
Waive Mr Cs outstanding fee and cease any further collection activity; and
Pay Mr C £100 to compensate him for the upset hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman