DRN-4337046
The complaint
Mr G complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) lent him a loan when it shouldnt have. 
Mr G says he didnt understand the product he was being lent. To put things right, Mr G 
wants the loan written off or at least the interest and charges removed.
What happened
L2G lent Mr G a loan in May 2022, the loan was for £1,500 repayable in 24 monthly 
instalments of £202. Mr G hasnt kept up with the repayment of his loan and the loan is still 
active.
L2G didnt think it was wrong to lend so it didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint but offered to 
reduce the interest on the balance of his loan by 15%. Mr G didnt accept the offer and 
asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to look into his complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked at what both parties said and thought L2G should have done 
more before lending to Mr G and had it carried out reasonable checks in the circumstances, 
it would likely have found Mr G wasnt in a financially sustainable position to afford the loan.
L2G disagreed with the adjudicator, it said there were no concerns raised from its checks 
that should have prompted it to take its checks further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high-cost lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
L2G needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out reasonable checks to make sure Mr G could repay 
the loan without borrowing further or suffering adverse financial consequence. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure.  
From the information provided, L2G asked Mr G about his income, monthly living costs and 
credit commitments. It also searched Mr Gs credit file. L2G says although Mr G declared his 
monthly income as £3,600, its checks found that his income was around £2,535.98 and his 
living expenses including credit commitments were around £1,973.83, although Mr G had 
declared these as £650.
In my opinion, there is a significant difference between what Mr G declared as his monthly 
income and expenses, and what L2G says it found through its credit reference agency 
checks. I think it would have been reasonable for further verification of Mr Gs financial 
circumstances at the time.
For instance, Mr G declared his monthly credit commitments to be £250 but the results of the 
credit search showed Mr G was paying more than that. The credit search also shows Mr G 
had borrowed almost every month before this loan. Mr G borrowed a loan in January 2022, 
another in February 2022 and two loans in March 2022. I think there should have been some 
curiosity on the part of L2G about why Mr G appeared to be borrowing consecutively and the 
disparity between the figures he declared and what L2G could see.
So, given these concerns, it would have been reasonable for L2G to have taken its checks 
further to get a clearer picture of Mr Gs circumstances. To help understand his 
circumstances at the time, Mr G has provided copies of his bank statements and from what 
I can see, Mr G was gambling more than £1,300 monthly, he was also borrowing from 
several lenders and was reliant on credit. 
Had L2G carried what I consider to be proportionate and reasonable checks in the 
circumstances of this case, it would likely have found Mr G was reliant on borrowing and his 
finances werent in a sustainable place for further borrowing. I think it has lent to Mr G when 
it shouldnt have and it needs to put things right.
Putting things right  what L2G needs to do
Remove all interest, fees and charges added to the loan.
Treat all payments Mr G has made as payments towards the capital loan amount of 
£1,500.
Theres likely to be an outstanding balance, L2G should work with Mr G to agree a 
suitable repayment plan.
Remove any negative information about loans from Mr Gs credit file once the capital 
has been repaid.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman