DRN-3031732
The complaint
Mr W says Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) failed to inform 
him about a change to its policy which saw the withdrawal of a Guaranteed Annuity Rate 
(GAR) on increases in payments he made to his personal pension plan after 1994. He says 
this has caused him financial detriment.
What happened
Mr W told us he took out a personal pension plan with Royal London (formerly Scottish Life) 
in 1990. His plan was due to run until April 2020  when he turned 55. 
Mr Ws plan had a GAR which was the main reason he selected it. A GAR is a fixed rate that 
was offered with some pension policies in the 1980s and 1990s. The annuity rate was set 
within the pension policy and it wouldnt vary with changing investment conditions.     
On 16 December 1994, Royal London wrote to members informing them about certain 
changes that were being made to their pension plans. This included the GAR provisions. Its 
letter said:
The Policy Conditions of your Plan contain guaranteed minimum annuity rates. These set a
minimum rate at which qualifying cash funds at retirement can be converted into pension.
These rates were withdrawn for new policies with effect from 1 February 1992 and so with 
effect from 1 January 1995, the terms for increases to existing policies are being brought into 
line with those for new policies.
As a result, the guaranteed rates will continue to apply to all funds secured to date and to 
those secured in the future by the current level of regular contributions to the Plan, if any, but 
will not apply to future single contributions (including transfer payments) or increases in 
regular contributions effected after 31 December 1994.
I understand that around 2014 Mr W was made redundant. He requested a six-month 
payment holiday for his pension plan from Royal London, which he was told was possible 
without impacting on the GAR provision. However, he was later informed that a break of 
payments for more than a two-month period would result in loss of his GAR. 
Royal London acknowledged the problem wasnt of Mr Ws making and in a letter to him on 
9 December 2014 it said:
I can confirm that after investigating your policy the GAR (for contributions going forwards) 
initially appear to have been lost due to an administration error in August 2010. At this 
point the automatic increases on your plan were not paid in full
Under the policies terms and conditions we can remove the benefit of GAR (on 
contributions going forwards) if you do not maintain the contractual premium. In this 
instance it would appear that you have tried to maintain the premium level in good faith 
and therefore I can confirm we are able to reinstate your accrual rate up to when you took 
a premium holiday.
Furthermore, there is an allowed maximum number of contributions which can be missed 
without loss of GAR. This is equivalent to 2 months premiums. As discussed in order to 
resolve this matter I can confirm we will offer full reinstatement of your GAR entitlement for 
all contributions going forwards if you are willing to pay 4 months contributions and reduce 
your premium holiday form 6 months to 2 months.
Mr W agreed to the arrangement and paid around £3,400 to regularise his position. In June 
2015 he received a letter acknowledging payment with the following statement (bolding is my 
emphasis):
Thank you for forwarding your chequeI appreciate some time has elapsed since this date 
and apologise for the delay but I can now confirm the Guaranteed Annuity status on 
your plan has been updated to Full.
Mr W says that at the end of January 2020 he received paperwork from Royal London 
regarding the maturing of his pension plan and setting out his options. When he read the 
paperwork it was highlighted that a significant part of his pension pot (over 40%) did not 
qualify for a GAR. 
Mr W had several concerns about what had happened. He says the pack he received from 
Royal London in January 2020 was the first time in almost 30 years hed been made aware 
that his whole fund wouldnt benefit from a GAR. By this time it was too late for him to do 
anything. 
Mr W says he doesnt think he received the 1994 letter from Royal London setting out 
changes to the GAR provisions in his plan. He thinks its unfair for this Service to assume it 
was sent given the absence of a copy. He says if he had known he wouldve either 
increased his payments before the new rules came into effect or not made any
increases at all. He said his financial adviser believes he couldve achieved the same or 
better returns through a different pension provider.
Mr W says the letter of 12 June 2015 from Royal London - when it was trying to put his plan 
back on track after his payment holiday - was misleading because it indicated he had his full 
GAR restored on the entire value of his plan. Mr W noted that for around 25 years, Royal 
London had failed to inform him about the different provisions that applied to different 
elements of his fund.
Royal London said it was allowed to take a commercial decision about the terms attached to 
its pension plans for the future. It had done so for GARs given the prevailing market 
conditions. And it had informed its members about these changes in 1994, including Mr W. 
Royal London acknowledged that the letter it sent to Mr W in 2015 had been poorly worded. 
It shouldve said that the payments hed agreed to make to effectively reduce the payment 
holiday hed taken to the permitted two months without a penalty to his GAR would restore 
his GAR eligibility, not provide full GAR for his whole plan. But this single poorly drafted letter 
didnt mean he should be entitled to benefits that werent contracted for or available to other 
customers.
Royal London noted that it was for Mr W to seek advice about his pension provision, that 
wasnt a role it performed when he applied to increase his pension contributions. It says it 
wasnt required to provide a breakdown of his contributions between those that attracted a 
GAR and those that didnt. Although from around 2016 it did point this out, in keeping with 
regulatory requirements.The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. As he disagreed his case has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities,
whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties have provided information and argument about the events complained about.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised. Thats deliberate; ours is an
informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers.
While Ive considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on what I think is 
relevant and at the heart of this complaint. 
Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same reasons. It follows
that Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I recognise this will be disappointing and frustrating 
for him. Ill explain why Ive arrived at my decision.
Was Royal London permitted to make changes to the GAR?
Mr W took out his plan in 1991 and he told us one of the main reasons for choosing it was 
the fact that it came with a GAR. This has proved a valuable feature of such plans, as 
annuity rates have fallen significantly over time. One of the reasons that providers began to 
move away from GARs is that they were unsustainable.
Im satisfied that Royal London was allowed to make changes to the GAR provisions on his 
pension in relation to the future increased contributions. But thats not really at the heart of 
Mr Ws complaint  what hes concerned about is that he says he wasnt told for 25 years or 
so this was the case. And that had he been informed he wouldve acted differently.
Did Royal London notify policyholders of the change to the GAR in 1994?
Ive already set out extracts from a letter Royal London says it sent to members in 1994, 
including Mr W. This outlined changes it was making to its plans which would mean that for 
policyholders who made increased contributions, this element of their payments wouldnt 
attract a GAR. But it couldnt provide a copy of the letter addressed to Mr W.
When responding to the investigators last view Mr W said: 
In 1994 Scottish Life say they sent me a letter stating that if I increased my monthly 
contribution by more than the 10%, the extra amount would not be subject to GARs. I never 
received the letter and Royal London cannot supply a copy of the letter with my name and 
address on. I find this strange, as this correspondence is an extremely important piece of 
information and is fundamental to my policy overall. Although you state that they dont have 
to keep correspondence that far back, I would say that a document like this that notifies a 
customer of a significant fundamental change to their plan, is a document they should be 
keeping.
  
I think Mr W has dealt with this Service in good faith. Hes acknowledged previously that he 
couldnt be 100% certain about all the letters hes received. And I have no reason to doubt 
his view that any important correspondence he got concerning his pension would be in his 
records. Faced with conflicting accounts of what happened I must make a finding based on what I 
think was more likely than not to have happened at the time. Its not a matter of taking sides, 
its about considering the evidence available and weighing this.
Both parties have confirmed the address Mr W was living at in 1994. Mr W has also 
confirmed that he received other correspondence about his pension to that address. He 
hasnt indicated that he had any problems with the postal service.  
On balance, I find that its more likely than not Royal London wrote to Mr W to inform him
about changes to the GAR provisions on his pension plan in 1994. Even if he doesnt 
recollect receiving the letter from his pension provider at that time or didnt appreciate how 
this would affect his pension if he chose to increase his contributions in the future.
Theres no requirement on product providers to keep copies of letters sent to customers
indefinitely. So, I cant reasonably say that because Royal London cant provide a copy of
the actual letter sent to Mr W this means it didnt send it to him.
The misleading letter from Royal London of 12 June 2015
The purpose of the letter Royal London sent to Mr W in June 2015 was to inform him that the 
money he had paid to bring his pension plan back within the terms of the agreement, 
following a payment holiday hed taken, meant that his GAR entitlement remained in place. 
I agree that the wording in the letter, where it mentions the GAR status had been restored to 
full, is misleading. It was a little different from explanation in the earlier letter Royal London 
sent him about the same issue in December 2014, where it talked about his GAR 
entitlement. 
Theres an argument here that if Mr W was relying on the precise wording about his GAR, 
the difference between this correspondence and the ambiguous language used couldve led 
him to enquire about the precise meaning, or to have sought input from his financial adviser.
Actually, as per Royal Londons letter from 1994, the GAR continued to apply on existing 
regular contributions but not increases in contributions after 31 December 1994. I dont think 
it would be reasonable for me to require it to make payments to Mr W which he wasnt 
entitled to, which would also be unfair to other customers.
Should annual statements have shown what portion of Mr Ws fund would benefit from the
GAR?
Mr W feels Royal London shouldve provided better information to him about how the GAR 
applied to his pension contributions. I think he makes a reasonable point. It wouldve been 
helpful to him to have seen on his annual statement which part of his pension pot would 
benefit from the GAR and which part wouldnt. Unfortunately, there was no regulatory 
requirement for Royal London to do so. So, I cant reasonably say that it acted incorrectly in 
failing to provide such a breakdown in his annual statements. 
As the investigator noted, in 2016 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), consulted on 
introducing a requirement for businesses to provide better information to consumers on the 
GAR and non-guaranteed elements of their pension pot. Feedback from stakeholders was 
this would be difficult to implement quickly and so the requirement wasnt introduced until 
April 2017.I accept Mr W didnt appreciate that the GAR wouldnt apply on any increases to his 
contributions until he received the information pack from Royal London in 2020 setting out 
his options for taking benefits from his plan. And the fact that Ive seen earlier 
correspondence from 2017 which he received and which arguably shouldve raised his 
awareness of the matter is somewhat academic to the complaint brought. 
I dont think Royal London did anything wrong in the way it communicated with Mr W about 
the GAR before 2017. It provided him with annual statements setting out the
value of his pension pot and detailing the pension contributions hed made. 
There was no regulatory requirement for Royal London to remind Mr W on a yearly, or 
regular basis that any increases in his contributions wouldnt benefit from the GAR. And he 
was free to seek advice before deciding whether to increase his contributions to his
Royal London pension.
Would Mr W have increased his contributions to his Royal London pension if he had been
aware of the changes to the GAR?
Mr W says he wouldnt have increased his contributions to his Royal London pension plan if 
hed been told that the GAR didnt apply to any increases in his contribution post 1994. Hes 
also told us its possible hed have invested in different funds with different providers. 
I appreciate Mr Ws position, but I must also take into account that whether a pension
contribution benefitted from a GAR would only be one factor in deciding whether to increase
pension savings. Mr W will have received tax relief at his marginal rate on his pension
contributions and his fund has grown in a tax efficient environment.
Mr W told us his financial adviser believes he couldve achieved the same or better returns 
through a different pension provider. Leaving aside the lack of analysis with this assertion 
and the problem of hindsight, I agree with the investigator when he says its difficult to 
conclude Mr W wouldve done anything different. He wasnt making regular contributions in 
the early years of his plan, he was a first-time investor and had said the GAR was important 
to him. Im not persuaded he wouldve opted to pay into a higher risk fund or a fund without 
GAR.
Taking all these matters together, Im not going to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Im satisfied 
that, on balance, its likely that Royal London did everything it needed to do under the rules 
at the time to let Mr W know about changes to the way the GAR applied to contributions. 
And even if he had known about the withdrawal of the GAR at the time, given the tax 
efficiencies of pension contributions, I cant conclude he wouldve done anything different.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr W was hoping for. There is some merit in the 
arguments he has made. But I dont think, based on an assessment of the information 
available, that it would be reasonable for me to direct Royal London to make a payment to 
him that wasnt part of the contract he had.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman