DRN-2924288
The complaint
Mr P complained that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream acted irresponsibly when 
it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr P took out two Lending Stream loans as follows:
Loan Date Taken Loan status Instalments AmountHighest repayment
1 01/02/2011 debt sold 6 £240.00 £120.00
2 11/05/2011 debt sold 5 £120.00 £142.80
*including combined repayments when loans overlap
Mr P mainly said that Lending Stream had failed to carry out proper affordability checks 
before lending to him. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr P and Lending Stream told us about these loans.  
Overall, she thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ps 
circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
Lending Stream to ask Mr P for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. Our adjudicator didnt think Lending Stream had any information which 
shouldve prompted it to check what Mr P had said in his loan applications. Or that the 
number of loans Mr P had taken out, the amounts hed borrowed or the length of time hed 
been borrowing from Lending Stream shouldve alerted Lending Stream to think he was 
having money problems. So she didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Mr P disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. He firmly believed that Lending Stream did not carry out proper checks before 
lending and he told us that he is aware other people have received refunds due to Lending 
Stream not doing proper checks. 
The complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website and Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Lending Stream provided Mr P with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr P before providing it. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
I've taken carefully into account everything that Mr P has told us, including what hes said in 
response to the adjudicators view. I do appreciate that Mr P feels strongly that Lending 
Stream shouldve realised he couldnt afford further loans. But having carefully thought about 
everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. Heres why I say 
this. 
Lending Stream agreed to Mr Ps applications after carrying out affordability checks and it 
relied on information Mr P provided about his monthly income and expenditure and the 
results of credit checks it carried out.  
Keeping in mind everything that Mr P and Lending Stream have said, I've looked at each 
loan in turn. 
loan 1
As this was his first loan with Lending Stream I think Lending Stream was broadly entitled to 
rely on the information Mr P provided. From what I can see, Mr P declared his income as 
£960 and told Lending Stream that his regular monthly expenses were around 313. So it 
looked like Mr P should have had around £646 disposable income  which meant the 
monthly repayments of £120 for this loan looked comfortably affordable for him. 
At this early stage, Mr P didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Lending Stream to any underlying money problems. And Ive seen a summary of Lending 
Streams credit checks for this loan which dont appear to show anything particularly adverse 
that shouldve prompted it either to ask Mr P more searching questions about his financial 
situation or check the information hed provided. 
So I havent seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ps complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Ive taken into account that Mr P took out loan 2 before hed repaid loan 1 - but I dont think 
Lending Stream wouldve had any reason to think that this loan wasnt likely to be 
sustainably affordable for Mr P.
I cant fairly say that, at that stage, Mr P had shown any signs that hed found it hard to pay 
for loan 1. 
And the figures hed declared when he applied for this loan, and the information Lending 
Stream had collected, seem to support Lending Streams lending decision. He declared a 
higher income this time  around £1,060. This alone was more than enough to offset the £22 increase in the amount he would be paying for both loans as Mr P appears to have told 
Lending Stream that his expenses for the month were still the same. 
I dont think there was anything in the information that Lending Stream had recorded for 
Mr P, or anything else that it shouldve been aware of, which wouldve made Lending Stream 
think this loan wasnt affordable for Mr P when he took it out  even allowing for the fact that 
his payments for both loans overlapped. 
So thats why Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about loan 2.
Looked at overall, based on all the information it seems Mr P told Lending Stream and the 
information it recorded for him on each application, it wouldve looked like Mr P had sufficient 
money left after paying his other monthly outgoings to sustainably repay these loans.
I think that Lending Stream gave Mr P fair opportunity to provide relevant information about 
his spending  and if he didnt tell Lending Stream about other spending or the fact that he 
was struggling financially at the time I dont think its reasonable to expect Lending Stream to 
have known this. 
The credit checks it carried out didnt reveal anything that shouldve prompted Lending 
Stream to probe more deeply into Mr Ps reasons for borrowing or take steps to verify what 
he was saying. 
And its lending decisions dont seem unreasonable to me looking at the information Lending 
Stream relied on when deciding whether to provide these loans  which I think it was entitled 
to do in these particular circumstances.  
I think Mr P was aware he was taking high cost loans on terms he seemed happy to agree to 
at the time  details are reasonably clearly set out in the loan agreements, including the 
interest rates and the cost of the credit. 
Im very sorry that Mr P found repaying this borrowing difficult. And I accept that in reality 
Mr Ps financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided, 
or the other information Lending Stream obtained. But, in order to uphold this complaint 
I have to be able to say a lender acted unfairly or unreasonably. And, in this case, I havent 
seen enough to make me think that Lending Stream did anything wrong when it decided to 
lend these loans to Mr P. 
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account what Mr P said about what happened on 
other cases. But each complaint we receive is looked at on its own merits  no two cases 
are likely to be identical in every way and the outcome of each complaint will depend on its 
own facts. Ive looked at the circumstances that apply in this particular case and what 
happened on other cases doesnt change my conclusion here.  
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr P but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
And if Mr P would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman