DRN-4390200
The complaint
Mr S complaint is about a claim he made on his Pinnacle Insurance Plc pet insurance 
policy, which was declined.
Mr S says the position Pinnacle has taken is unfair. He wants Pinnacle to pay his claim.
Mr S complaint is brought by a representative, but I shall refer to all submissions as his own 
for ease of reference.
What happened
Mr S took out his Pinnacle pet insurance policy in March 2022. In February 2023 Mr S dog 
was diagnosed with chronic heart failure. He claimed on the policy for the vet fees hes 
incurred to date in respect of that.
Pinnacle declined the claim. They said that it was clear from the dogs medical notes that the 
symptoms began and were ongoing during the policys exclusion period - namely the first 14 
days. 
Mr S vet provided evidence to say that whilst the dog was diagnosed with a mild heart 
murmur in March 2022, this wasnt necessarily a sign or symptom of heart failure and there 
were no clinical signs that this was present at the time.
Our investigator considered Mr S complaint and upheld it. She said Pinnacle hadnt done 
enough to demonstrate the heart murmur was related to the later diagnosis of heart failure. 
As such she said Pinnacle needed to settle Mr S claim and pay him £150 in compensation 
for the stress and inconvenience caused as a result of their declining it.
Pinnacle doesnt agree. They rely on the evidence of their own vet who they say supports 
the heart murmur was a clinical sign of the subsequent heart failure. Because Pinnacle 
havent agreed with the investigators view, the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr S complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They say:
What we will not pay for
The cost of any treatment for any illness which occurs or shows symptoms within 14 days 
of the start date.
So, the issue I need to determine is whether the heart murmur Mr S dog was initially 
diagnosed with was a symptom of the heart failure eventually experienced. To decide this, 
Ive had regard to the evidence of both vets. Mr S vet who saw the dog describes the heart 
murmur as mild. He also says there was no indication at that stage of any functional heart 
problems and definitely no suggestion of heart failure to any degree. He says that heart 
murmurs are frequently detected in young dogs, most of which either disappear or are never 
associated with heart dysfunction throughout a dogs life. He advised Mr S to monitor his dog 
for any signs of weakness in this regard such as poor growth, exercise intolerance or 
respiratory problems but none of these were observed. It wasnt until 9 September 2022 that 
there was any indication that a heart function problem might be present at all. 
On the other hand, Pinnacles vet says that a heart murmur is an indicator of underlying 
structural change to the heart and a dog with a hear murmur and structural change is more 
likely to develop chronic heart failure. She also says that if the dog had had an echo 
performed at the time, its likely that it would have been diagnosed with heart disease. Just 
because it wasnt, it doesnt mean the condition wasnt present. 
In response to that evidence our investigator asked Pinnacles vet for further details- namely 
whether a heart murmur is a clinical sign or symptom of heart failure, what the clinical signs 
of heart failure are and where these signs are recorded in Mr S vets notes. Pinnacles vet 
responded. She said that a murmur is not necessarily a clinical sign of heart failure, but it is 
an indication for investigation as it can be that a dog has a structural heart abnormality and 
is at risk of chronic heart failure. 
She also noted that whilst Mr S vet said that heart murmurs are frequently detected in young 
dogs, Mr S dog was not a puppy when the murmur was noted on its clinical notes- rather it 
was 2 and a half years old. This together with the murmur being noted on multiple visits- in 
March and December 2022 suggests the murmur was likely structural rather than functional 
and therefore an indicator of heart abnormality.
Ive considered the evidence in this case, but Im not satisfied that Pinnacle have proved the 
illness Mr S dog was eventually diagnosed with, showed symptoms within 14 days of the 
start of the policy. Whilst I appreciate what their vet says, I dont think the fact that the heart 
murmur appeared on two entries of the dogs notes means it was a definite sign of heart 
failure. And whilst Pinnacles vet says the dog wasnt a puppy, she was still young at 2 and a 
half years old. Indeed, Mr S own vet refers to the dog as a pup at that time. As such, Im 
persuaded that the evidence Mr S own vet has given about the commonality of murmurs in 
young dogs is likely to be applicable in this case. 
Further, I dont accept that the absence of further testing meant the murmur was a sign or 
symptom of chronic heart failure. There were after all no other clinical signs that were 
suggestive of functional heart problems at the time and given the evidence is that heart 
murmurs are common in young dogs, I dont think it was unusual that further testing wasnt 
conducted. I cant surmise what might have been the outcome if it had been but theres no 
conclusive evidence to connect the heart murmur with the heart failure other than the benefit 
of hindsight, so I dont think its fair for Pinnacle to rely on this. Because of this, I direct them 
to put things right in the way in the way Ive set out below.
Putting things right
Pinnacle should now pay Mr S claim in line with the policy terms, as well as 8% interest per 
year simple on any payments Mr S has already made to his vet from the time that payment 
was made, until its reimbursed.
Pinnacle should also pay Mr S £150 for the stress and inconvenience their failure to pay his 
claim has caused. I understand the stress and worry of how Mr S was going to afford the ongoing treatment to his dog for the remainder of her life, as well as the vets fees already 
incurred caused him a lot of distress. Hes talked about feeling unwell as a result and having 
to take a few days off work. In the circumstances I consider the award Ive directed here is 
appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr S complaint and direct Pinnacle Insurance Plc to 
put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman