DRN-2267221
The complaint
Through a claims management company (CMC), Mr and Mrs C have complained that a 
mortgage was mis-sold by a representative of Legal & General Partnership Services Limited 
(L&G). They are asking L&G to compensate them for the losses incurred by taking out this 
mortgage.
What happened
In December 2004 Mr and Mrs C were given mortgage advice by L&G. At the time of the 
application, Mr and Mrs C were paying £403.80 for their existing mortgage at a rate of 6.75% 
and approx. £305 for their credit cards, on which they owed about £13,300.  They also had a 
loan they had just taken out on which they owed approx. £3,000, with a monthly payment of 
£85.
Their gross annual salary was £23,275, giving a net monthly income of approx. £1,700 
(including tax credits). Mr and Mrs C explained they were using their overdraft, although 
were within the limit set by their bank. 
They borrowed £56,100 from a mainstream lender over a ten-year term on a capital 
repayment basis. The first two years of the mortgage were on a discounted rate of 4.84%, 
giving a monthly repayment of approx. £600, after which the mortgage reverted to the 
lenders standard variable rate (SVR), giving a payment (assuming SVR was at the rate 
shown in the mortgage offer) of approx. £640. 
After paying off their existing mortgage of about £35,000, debts of about £13,300 and the 
expenses incurred for the transaction, a balance of about £2,000 was paid to Mr and Mrs C.  
In 2019, through the CMC, they complained that the advice was unsuitable. In summary, Mr 
and Mrs C say:
L&G used undue influence to sell this mortgage, which wasnt necessary as Mr and 
Mrs C didnt need to reduce their outgoings or consolidate credit card debt;
the mortgage wasnt the cheapest option;
L&G didnt consider which options were available through Mr and Mrs Cs existing 
lender;
a Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) policy was also mis-sold;
a Legal Administration fee (LAF) paid to L&G was inappropriate;
L&G received undisclosed commission from solicitors.
L&G didnt agree that the mortgage had been mis-sold. L&G did, however, agree to refund 
the £50 commission paid by the solicitors to L&G. Assuming Mr and Mrs C had not 
remortgaged from the lender recommended by L&G, the payment was calculated as follows:
Commission £  50.00
Mortgage interest paid on that £50 £  15.23
Gross simple interest @ 8% p.a to 16 January 2020 £  25.88
Less tax @ 20% basic rate £    5.18 £  20.70
Compensation for trouble and upset £100.00
Total £185.93
The CMC didnt accept this and brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. The investigator 
noted that Mr and Mrs C had said they felt undervalued by their existing lender and didnt 
want to stay with the same business. 
He was satisfied that consolidation of the credit card debt was appropriate, given the likely 
interest rate on those accounts and the level of repayment - £305 per month. He noted the 
CMC had put forward the argument that Mr and Mrs C could have cut back on their 
discretionary lifestyle spending, but the information gathered at the time shows that Mr and 
Mrs C wanted to free up the money they were spending on their credit cards, and the only 
way this could be done was by consolidating those debts into the new borrowing.
The investigator was also satisfied that L&G had explained that the mortgage had been 
sourced from a panel, rather than the whole of the market, and that the mortgage 
recommended was the least expensive of those it was able to source. The investigator also 
noted that the implications of consolidation had been explained. Overall the investigator 
didnt think the mortgage had been mis-sold.
In relation to the LAF, the investigator didnt think this should be refunded as he was 
satisfied Mr and Mrs C had agreed to pay this for administrative work carried out on behalf f 
the solicitors. He noted L&G had agreed to refund the commission paid by the solicitors to 
L&G in relation to this fee, as well as interest and compensation. He thought this was fair 
and that L&G didnt need to do anything more.
The CMC disagreed with the investigators findings. In summary, the CMC says that the 
consolidation of the smaller credit card debt was inappropriate as it would have been repaid 
within a relatively short period of time. The CMC considered the comments about Mr and 
Mrs C feeling undervalued by their previous lender to be evidence of undue influence in 
order to justify taking advantage of financially unsophisticated consumers to sell them an 
unsuitable mortgage.
The CMC says that Mr and Mrs C werent struggling financially and had a considerable 
amount of disposable income, so there was no need for them to take out this mortgage. The 
CMC also says that the adviser failed to provide an illustration giving a comparison of what 
Mr and Mrs C would pay if they didnt remortgage as against the cost of the new 
arrangements.
As the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the PPI complaint is being dealt with separately so I will make no further comment on 
that here.
The CMC says that Mr and Mrs C didnt need to remortgage but that L&G should have 
recommended that they use their existing lender to do so. L&G explained in writing that it sourced lending from a panel rather than whole of market, so this fact wasnt hidden and Im 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs C werent misled about it. In any event, whichever firm L&G 
recommended they use, it would still have charged for its advice. L&G confirmed to Mr and 
Mrs C that the recommendation was for the cheapest option from the lenders it used. Im 
satisfied that this met L&Gs regulatory obligations.
I also cant ignore that Mr and Mrs C said they werent happy with their existing lender. The 
CMC says this is evidence of manipulation and undue influence, but I note that in 2004/5, 
their existing lender was 35th in a table of 35 lenders with regard to competitive interest 
rates. That lender was a specialist lender rather than a High Street lender and so Im not 
persuaded Mr and Mrs C would have been better off looking for a new deal with that lender 
even if they had said they would have been happy to stay with that business  which they 
did not say.
I think the debt consolidation was suitable too. While based on their existing mortgage 
Mr and Mrs C werent in any financial difficulty, the fact find records they did want to reduce 
their outgoings if possible. Theyd just taken out a £3,000 loan and they had two credit cards 
on one of which (with the £11,500 debt) they were making minimum repayment and on the 
other (£1,800) they were paying only £10 over minimum payment. They were paying almost 
as much each month on their unsecured debt than to their old mortgage. 
I dont agree with the CMC that consolidating made the debts significantly more expensive. 
The mortgage they took was for 10 years at an initial discounted rate below 5%. They 
consolidated credit card debts which would have been at significantly higher interest rates 
and where, for the most part, only minimum payment was being made. Given this, I dont 
think there was a significant additional cost through consolidation and, in my view, what cost 
there was, was outweighed by the benefits of reducing outgoings to free up more disposable 
income.
There was no regulatory obligation on L&G to provide a comparison table of the cost of 
repaying Mr and Mrs Cs various debts with other lenders as against the cost of the new 
mortgage. L&G explained that consolidation could increase the debt  and showed the cost 
of the mortgage over the term.  In any event, consolidating the credit card debts into a ten-
year repayment mortgage at a much lower interest rate was, in my opinion, a cheaper and 
quicker option of repaying those debts than continuing to make minimum payment on the 
credit cards over the same ten-year period, particularly if the cards continued to be used.
The CMC says that without this mortgage, if theyd needed to reduce their expenditure, 
Mr and Mrs C could have cut back on their discretionary spending. But the information 
recorded on the fact find shows that their bank account was in overdraft, and theyd also just 
taken out a £3,000 loan. The available evidence is persuasive that Mr and Mrs C wanted to 
increase their disposable income rather than keep paying out the same amount each month 
on their credit cards and on their SVR mortgage with their previous lender.
Overall Im satisfied the recommendation was suitable. Ive seen no evidence to persuade 
me any undue influence was exercised over Mr and Mrs C which led them to take out this 
borrowing. The available evidence shows that the adviser fully considered Mr and Mrs Cs 
existing circumstances and financial position and that he explained the recommendation 
clearly in writing. The recommendation allowed Mr and Mrs C to pay off their debts, reduce 
their monthly outgoings and repay their mortgage within a ten-year term, in accordance with 
their stated wishes at the time. 
The CMC says that some of the costs in respect of the legal work were charged by L&G 
rather than the solicitor in the form of the LAF. I dont find anything inherently unreasonable 
in the LAF itself: there are a number of administrative procedures that need not have been carried out by a solicitor. If the solicitor had carried out those administrative procedures 
rather than L&G, Mr and Mrs C would still have had to pay for them. Given this, Im satisfied 
passing on the cost of the LAF for the administrative work done by L&G to Mr and Mrs C is 
reasonable.
The CMC has also raised concerns that L&G received commission for recommending the 
firm of solicitors used for the conveyancing work. But while the complaints been with us, 
L&G has made an offer to resolve that aspect of the complaint. The offer is as set out above 
a total of £185.93. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold the complaints that the mortgage was mis-sold 
or that the LAF should not have been charged. Insofar as the commission for the LAF is 
concerned, Legal & General Partnership Services Limited has made an offer of 
compensation which I am satisfied  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I 
therefore make no other order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman