DRN-4423360
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd have been pursuing her for a debt which 
she thinks was written off.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a credit card account which was opened in 2013, defaulted in 
2019, and then was sold to Hoist shortly afterwards. Lowell then bought Hoist and took on 
responsibility for the account.
Mrs H says that Hoist told her she didnt have to worry about the debt, and she thought that 
either they or the original lender had written it off. She also complained about the way the 
original lender treated her, noting they said theyd reduce the balance by £125.
Lowell says the debt was never written off and is still outstanding. They reduced the balance 
by £125 to account for what the original lender had said, and offered Mrs H a further £75 
compensation for the lack of updates shed received from Hoist.
Our investigator looked into things independently and found Lowells offer was fair. Mrs H 
asked for her case to be looked at afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To clarify, in this complaint about Lowell, I can only hold Lowell responsible for their own 
actions and the actions of Hoist, which they bought out. While I understand that Mrs H is 
most unhappy with the original lender, they are very much a separate business from Lowell, 
and I cannot hold Lowell responsible for things the original lender did.
Turning to the status of the account, I have gone through Lowell, Hoist, and the original 
lenders records, which detail everything that happened with this account. There is no record 
of it ever being written off, nor of a write-off even being considered. Mrs H says she got a 
letter confirming the write off, but shes been unable to provide a copy, and theres also no 
record of such a letter ever being sent to her. And I cant see that any of the businesses 
involved were given sufficient reason to need to write off the debt.
So none of the parties involved have any evidence which substantiates that this account was 
written off. On the other hand, the accounts records set out clearly that the debt is still active 
and owed. And I have to base my decision on what the evidence shows. So I find that Mrs H 
still owes the outstanding balance to Lowell.
I do note that Hoist put the account on hold for some time, while the original lender dealt with 
a complaint about the default and a balance reduction. It may be that Mrs H mistook this 
hold for a write off, and I could understand where such a misconception might come from. 
But to clarify: this was just a temporary hold, even if it lasted for a while. It was not a write 
off. As far as I can see, this debt was not written off, and is still outstanding.
Lowell have offered Mrs H £75 compensation, to recognise that Hoists delays in updating 
her may have caused some confusion and frustration. I find that offer to be fair.
Mrs H mentioned that she was going through a tough time more generally, and Im grateful 
to her for being open and candid about this. I should explain that Lowell were not required to 
write off this account in light of her mental health situation, not least as from what shed told 
them, she was still able to deal with the account. But I can see they did pass her account to 
a specialist support team, which was a reasonable response in this case.
Lowell also reduced the balance by £125, as the original lender had said they would, and 
I find that to be fair and reasonable too.
I hope I can assure Mrs H that shell only be expected to make repayments based on what 
she can actually afford  and I can see thats what Lowell have asked for. Mrs H may want to 
get back in touch with Lowell to see what assistance they can give her in repaying the 
money she owes. I can see theyve also sent her the details for charities who can give her 
free, impartial advice about dealing with debt. And Mrs H can get back in touch with our 
service in future for a separate case, if she later feels that Lowell arent taking account of 
what she can afford when working out a payment plan.
But as things stand now, I find that Lowell have already dealt with this complaint reasonably, 
and I think its fair for them to contact Mrs H and ask her for repayment of the money she 
owes them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I find that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd have already dealt with this 
matter fairly. I make no further award.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman