DRN-3755532
The complaint
Miss C complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted loans to her. Had it done so, Morses 
wouldve discovered she couldnt afford to repay these loans. 
What happened
Miss C took five loans from Morses between March 2017 and April 2018. A summary of her 
borrowing can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment 
per loan
1 £400.00 24/03/2017 12/10/2017 33 £20.00
2 £400.00 07/07/2017 04/12/2017 33 £20.00
3 £400.00 12/10/2017 24/04/2018 33 £20.00
4 £200.00 03/03/2018 sold 33 £10.00
5 £400.00 24/04/2018 sold 33 £20.00
Miss C had some problems repaying her final two loans, and Morses has shown that it sold 
the outstanding debts to a third-party collection agency in December 2018.  
Following Miss Cs complaint, Morses considered it and didnt uphold it. Unhappy with this 
response, Miss Cs representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She thought given the results of the credit 
check Morses carried out along with the income and expenditure information it was 
reasonable of Morses to have provided loans 1  4. 
However, she thought by loan 5, Morses ought to have carried further checks. But as a copy 
of Miss Cs bank statements hadnt been provided the adjudicator wasnt able to say what 
Morses may have seen had further checks been carried out. 
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
Miss Cs representative didnt agree and asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss C could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss 
Cs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss C. These factors include:
Miss C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss C.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss C could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss C was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Cs complaint.
Loan 1
Before the loan was approved, Morses took details of Miss Cs income and expenditure. She 
declared a weekly income of £319 with declared weekly outgoings of £150. Leaving around 
£168 per week in which to make her repayments of £20. This loan looked affordable to 
Morses based on the information Miss C declared.  
In addition, before this loan was granted (and only this loan) Morses carried out a credit 
search and it has provided a copy of the results to the Financial Ombudsman.  
It is worth saying here that although Morses carried out a credit search there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely 
possible that the information Morses received may not entirely reflect the information Miss C 
may be able to view in her own credit report. There could be for a number of reasons for this, 
such as Morses only asking for certain pieces of information. But what Morses cant do is 
carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it received  if necessary.  Having looked at the credit check results, there is some adverse information. Morses was 
aware of a County Court Judgement (CCJ) for £4,610 but this had been reported some 27 
months before this loan was approved. The CCJ on its own wouldnt be enough, in my view 
to uphold the complaint because this CCJs showed some time ago that Miss C had some 
quite significant repayment problems.  
Morses also saw that Miss C had defaulted on two credit accounts, but again the most 
recent of those accounts was defaulted 55 months before the loan was approved, which is 
too long ago for Morses to have been concerned about Miss Cs current financial position. 
Finally, Morses was aware of six active credit accounts with Miss C owing just over £5,000. 
The information Morses was told about Miss C following its credit check wasnt sufficient to 
either have prompted it to carry out further checks or to have declined 
Miss Cs credit application. 
Given it was early in the lending relationship I think it was reasonable for Morses to have 
relied on the information Miss C gave it and what it discovered from the credit check. These 
checks showed the loan was affordable, so I think a reasonable decision was made to 
provide it. 
Loans 2  4
Some of these loans ran concurrently  for example loans 2 and 3 were running at the same 
time, increasing Miss Cs weekly commitment to Morses to £40 per week. There were also 
times when loans were taken in a consecutive manner, for example, loan 3 was taken on the 
same day that loan 1 was repaid. 
But in saying that, Morses carried out the same types of checks for these loans as it did for 
loan 1. It asked Miss C for details of her income and expenditure and based on what Miss C 
provided, Morses wouldve seen that she had enough disposable income each week to be 
able to afford the loan repayments. 
There also wasnt anything else that I can see that wouldve led Morses to have concluded 
that either the loans werent affordable for Miss C or there was some other reason that may 
have led it to conclude the lending was no longer sustainable  such as previous repayment 
problems.  
Considering a number of factors such as the time in debt, how these loans were repaid as 
well as the income and expenditure information Ive concluded Morses carried out 
propionate checks which showed it these loans were affordable. 
Loan 5
When Miss C returned for her fifth loan, she had been indebted to Morses for just over a 
year and was further extending her indebtedness for another 33 weeks. Her borrowing had 
also increased for this loan compared to loan 4 and was now back up to the level it was 
when her previous loans were granted. 
So while, the income and expenditure information suggested that Miss C had £75 per week 
in disposable income to afford the repayment due for this loan of £20 I do think, given the 
factors that Ive highlighted above that Morses checks needed to go further. 
Thinking about everything above, I do think Morses needed to have done further checks 
before the loan was approved. By now, it ought to have been verifying the information Miss C had provided. Morses couldve done this several ways such as asking for a copy of her full 
credit report, copies of bills to show outgoings or to have reviewed her bank statements. 
However, that is not the end of the matter, for me to be able to uphold this loan, Id have to 
be able to conclude that had Morses carried out further checks it wouldve likely discovered 
the loan was unaffordable. 
Neither Miss C or her representative have provided copies of her bank statements for the 
relevant period (or any other documentation that couldve been used to build a picture of her 
financial position). Without these documents or copy bank statements Im not able to 
conclude that had Morses carried out the types of check I think are appropriate at this point 
in time, it wouldve concluded the loan shouldnt have been granted. 
There also wasnt anything else in the information Miss C provided that wouldve led Morses 
to have upheld the complaint because the loans were in some way unsustainable for her. 
Nor were there any signs that Miss C was having, or likely having financial difficulties  for 
example, all the loans appear to have been paid on time at the point loan 5 was granted. 
I accept it look longer for loan 4 to be repaid, but these repayment problems only became 
apparent after loan 5 was granted, so they arent something Morses couldve considered at 
the time. 
Overall, at the time loan 5 was granted, Morses ought to have done further checks but I cant 
say what it wouldve seen so Im not upholding this loan or her complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman