DRN-2118594
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very is holding him 
responsible for borrowing which he didnt take out.
What happened
Mr S says that someone else took out borrowing in his name at a number of financial 
businesses. But Shop Direct here wont accept he was the victim of identity fraud on his 
very account. He says he didnt order any items and that he wasnt aware of this borrowing.
Shop Direct didnt agree. It said that it called Mr S on 30 January 2019 about this account. 
Mr S then accepted that he was aware of it and confirmed that he consented to his niece 
using his details to take out an account and make purchases. So, he was responsible for it 
even if that person had taken out fraudulent accounts for other businesses that he wasnt 
aware of. It said that it had sent statements to the address registered.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he agreed that 
Mr S had confirmed in the call that he had given consent for someone else to use his details 
and the account. Mr S says that that person had bought more goods that he expected but 
that would be a matter between him and the other person who had apparent authority.
Mr S didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its not 
enough for it just to be authenticated. Where credit is involved, as is the case here on a 
running credit account, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies, and it states that a consumer 
wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to someone else 
using the facility.
Im afraid that the call that Shop Direct had here with Mr S a few days after it was opened is 
key. Ive listened carefully to a recording of it. Mr S confirms he is aware of the very 
account, and of the address where deliveries of items had been made. He says he had 
allowed his niece to use his details and so this account. He is told about the purchases that 
had been made a few days earlier and the balance of the account was by then over £1,400. 
He did say thats more than it was supposed to be and not for items he expected. Mr S said 
at the time that he wasnt aware of a different account with a different brand name.
No further transactions were allowed on the very account and Mr S was told to get into 
contact with the person who had been using the account.
Mr S hasnt explained what other contact he has had with this person but that he has been 
the victim of wider fraud. Im only looking here at what happened with this specific account. 
Unfortunately, I do think both that the application for and use of the account were both 
authenticated with his correct details. And that he consented to his account being used. I 
cant know exactly what arrangements he came to with the person using the account. But I 
consider that Shop Direct could reasonably consider that the payments that were made were 
authorised by him and he is responsible for them. He would as has been said need to take 
up a specific dispute about the nature of those payments with the person who made them.
Shop Direct had shown that it sent statements to the account registered. I understand that 
this wasnt to Mr Ss home address but to the third partys address. But Im satisfied that this 
was done with his effective consent as he allowed that person to access the account. 
Payments werent made as required and the account defaulted. I find that he was 
reasonably aware of this borrowing and it was his responsibility to ensure that payments 
were made to Shop Direct.
I fully understand Mr Ss position in this complaint, and which is that he was taken advantage 
of and has significant debts to pay especially given his personal circumstances and finances. 
And because this borrowing is part of a wider series of identity thefts which he has reported 
to police. Unfortunately, I dont agree that this account was opened and operated without his 
authorisation and so I wont be asking Shop Direct to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman