DRN-3836461
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that National Westminster Bank Plc is applying a large early 
repayment charge (ERC) for ending their mortgage a couple of weeks early. Mr and Mrs W 
feel this is unfair, and that they were wrongly advised by NatWest. 
What happened
Mrs W told our service that she spoke to NatWest at the start of May about their mortgage, 
because she was concerned about increasing interest rates. She said NatWest told her two 
things  one was that she and Mr W were still tied into their current mortgage until 
November, and the other was that they couldnt have an appointment with a mortgage 
advisor until the start of June. Mrs W said she anticipated another interest rate rise in this 
time, so she spoke to a different lender, and got a mortgage offer which lasted six months, 
until 14th November. But she said she then discovered the ERC on their mortgage with 
NatWest would be payable until 30 November. 
Mrs W said it wasnt good enough for NatWest not to offer an appointment for a whole 
month, and she said because NatWest hadnt given her an exact date when her ERC 
expired, she and Mr W were left having to make a difficult decision. 
Mrs W said when she complained, NatWest told her shed been given the end date for her 
mortgage ERC in March. Mrs W said she didnt remember that. She told us about the 
distressing family circumstances shes experienced since then. She said she couldnt be on 
top of everything during a time like this. And she didnt think it was fair for NatWest to be 
charging £1,600 for the sake of leaving 14 days early. She wanted NatWest to refund the 
ERC.
NatWest said that Mr and Mrs W had taken additional borrowing on their mortgage, and it 
showed our service that the bulk of their lending is on a fixed term which ended on 30 
November 2022. It said the documents they had signed for their mortgage were clear. 
NatWest showed our service two complaint response letters it had sent to Mrs W. The first 
was dated 21 March 2022, and dealt with Mrs Ws complaint that NatWest wouldnt waive 
the ERC on her mortgage. It set out the ERC was payable until the end of the fixed interest 
period, on 30 November 2022. And it explained how an ERC works  that its not designed 
to be a penalty for the borrower, its designed to cover the costs a lender incurs if its 
borrowers end their lending early. 
NatWests second letter was dated 29 September, and it accepts that Mrs W wasnt told the 
precise date her ERC would cease to be payable when she spoke to NatWest in early May. 
NatWest said that it had only referred to the month, but Mrs W hadnt asked for the exact 
date either. NatWest said it had also listened to a call it had with Mrs W in mid-March, when 
she gave the date when the ERC stopped being payable, 30 November. And this was also 
set out in NatWests earlier complaint response letter. 
NatWest said it would still ask Mr and Mrs W to pay an ERC if they repaid their mortgage 
before this date. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said NatWest had properly 
notified Mr and Mrs W of their ERC when they varied their mortgage agreement in 2017. He 
explained the purpose of the ERC  that it would cover the cost to NatWest of the mortgage 
settling early. He said he appreciated that Mr and Mrs W had been through a very difficult 
time, and he sympathised. But he said it wouldnt be fair for him to ask NatWest to waive the 
charge (and to bear the resulting costs itself) unless it had made a mistake. And he said he 
was satisfied that it hadnt.
Mrs W didnt agree. She wanted us to reconsider the letter which was sent in March, 
because she said it doesnt specifically say an ERC would be charged if she redeemed 
before the 30th November. She said thats why she rang in May to get the information. And 
what she was told then made her think shed be free to change at any point in that month. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He thought the letter was clear. The first bullet point 
says that sub one is a five year fixed until 30 November 2022. And then the third bullet 
point says If you repay all or part of your mortgage on or before the end of the fixed rate 
term, you will have to pay an ERC.
Our investigator said that if Mrs W had been unclear about the exact date on the May phone 
call she had with NatWest, she could have asked. And he said he couldnt consider the May 
phone call in isolation. He still thought NatWest had given Mrs W enough information to 
make her aware of when the ERC was payable.
Mrs W didnt agree. She still felt that pieces of information were being put together to prove 
her wrong, and things werent being seen from her point of view. She said the call in May 
wasnt clear, and she still didnt think the letter was clear. And she said we hadnt considered 
that NatWest had no mortgage advisors available to speak to her for over a month.
Mrs W still didnt think it was fair that she and Mr W should have to pay the full amount of the 
ERC. She was prepared to compromise by paying half. 
Our investigator still didnt change his mind. He explained again that he felt the letter was 
clear. The first bullet point says the date the fixed term ends. The second bullet point says 
that the loan can be settled early but there are terms that need to be considered. It then 
points to the mortgage illustration and the ERC section. And the third bullet point starts with 
Early Repayment Charges in bold letters. It then explained that if Mr and Mrs W repay their 
mortgage before the end of the fixed term, they would have to pay an ERC.
Our investigator said he understood there was a long wait for a mortgage appointment, but 
he said Mrs W had suggested things would be different if the call had been clearer. And hed 
set out why he disagreed.
Mr and Mrs W wanted their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it came to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. Mrs W discussed her mortgage with NatWest in March, when I understand she was aware of 
the end date for the fixed interest rate on the main part of her borrowing. She was unhappy 
then that she would have to pay an ERC if she moved the mortgage before the end of the 
fixed rate period. NatWest wrote to her then, and set out the date the ERC ended, as well as 
explaining its purpose. Like our investigator, I do think this letter was clear. 
Mrs W said she then spoke to NatWest again in May, and was only given the month that her 
ERC would cease to be payable. At the time, she was hoping to speak to a NatWest 
mortgage advisor. She wasnt able to end her fixed rate deal early, and take a new offer with 
NatWest, without doing that. 
I dont think thats an unreasonable thing for NatWest to say, that it wants people to take 
advice if they are thinking of making a change to their mortgage which involves ending a 
fixed interest rate deal early, as that wont be suitable for everyone. 
Mrs W was also told she couldnt have an appointment to discuss this until May, around a 
month later. I realise this was a long time to wait, but as Mrs W said, every news, financial 
adviser and TV programme at the time was telling people to speak to their bank. And lots of 
people did take that advice. So banks were under a lot of pressure to provide mortgage 
advice at this time, and unfortunately the wait for appointments could sometimes be much 
longer than those banks would like. I dont think this makes it unfair for NatWest to charge an 
ERC, if Mr and Mrs W decided instead to move their mortgage elsewhere. 
Mrs W has told us about the distressing family circumstances she has experienced after the 
March call with NatWest. Im very sorry to hear about this. I understand thats why she thinks 
we should look particularly at what happened in May, because she felt she needed more 
support at that point. But, like our investigator, I do think I have to set this call in context, and 
overall, I think NatWest had made the end date for the fixed interest rate period on Mr and 
Mrs Ws mortgage, clear, and had made clear that an ERC would be payable until then. And 
I would also say, like our investigator, that if Mrs W was looking for more detail on this May 
call, she could always have asked for the exact date the ERC would cease to be due. 
I realise that Mr and Mrs W were left in a difficult position, of either paying to come out of 
their existing mortgage early, or of missing out on an advantageous mortgage offer that they 
couldnt then get again. I understand what an uncomfortable position this placed them in, 
and Im sorry thats happened to them. But I just dont think that what has happened here is 
NatWests fault. I know that Mrs W will be terribly disappointed by my decision, but I dont 
think that the circumstances of this case are such that it would be fair and reasonable for me 
to ask NatWest to bear these costs. So I wont uphold this complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman