DRN-3474267
The complaint
A company, which I will refer to as E complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly 
increased their motor insurance premium when they changed a van mid-term in their policy. 
And that it has not given a reasonable or fair reason for this.
Mr E who is a director of E, brings the complaint on Es behalf. References to Mr E or E, will 
include the other.
What happened
Es motor insurance policy with Aviva covered two vans. One of the vans was substituted 
mid-term for a newer van of the same make and model. One of the directors of E contacted 
Aviva to update the details of the van substitution and paid an additional premium for this 
change.
When Mr E received the renewal price for Es policy in 2021, he noticed there was a 
significant reduction in premium in comparison to the previous year. He thought the increase 
in premium when the mid-term substitution of van was made in 2020 seemed to be incorrect. 
He contacted Aviva and asked it to investigate if it had made error.
During the investigation to check the calculation of Mr Es policy premium Aviva identified 
that when the mid-term change was made in 2020 the caller was found to be Mr Es son. 
And he had pretended to be his father who is the named person on the policy. He did this 
because despite being a director of E and a named driver on the policy, he was not 
authorised at Aviva to make changes to it.
Aviva looked into Mr Es concern about his premiums and said it had not made a mistake. It 
confirmed the premium charged at the time of the change of van was correct and explained 
it used an automated system to generate premiums. It said due to the significant difference 
in premium its pricing experts had checked this manually. And it concluded that the premium 
was calculated correctly and in line with its pricing method at the time of change. 
Aviva also manually reviewed the pricing for the current years policy. It concluded that it 
should have been a little higher. 
As Mr E was not happy with Aviva, he brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said they did 
not agree Aviva had made an error when calculating the premium following an amendment 
to the policy and therefore did not require it to take any further action.
As Mr E is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E said he has been a customer of Aviva for many years and said that he usually deals 
with insurance for E. Mr E explained he had to delegate the change of van on the insurance 
policy to his son as he had family commitments that took priority. He acknowledged his son 
pretended to be him, without him knowing. I have seen that Aviva have now recorded Mr E is 
comfortable that his son can give instruction in relation to the policy. 
During this call Aviva confirmed the premium increase, admin fee and all key information. 
Mr Es son questioned the additional premium and asked if it was correct or if a reduction 
could be made. He mentioned the substitute van was the same as the old one, just newer. 
The price was checked by the Aviva representative but was found to be correct, so the policy 
amendment was made, and the additional premium was paid.
I looked in detail at the underwriting criteria provided by Aviva. As this is confidential, 
business sensitive information, Im unable to share it. After checking it Im satisfied the price 
increase following the amendment on the policy was calculated correctly and all of Avivas 
customers in the same position wouldve been charged a similar premium.
It is important to understand that were not the industry regulator. That means I dont have 
the power to tell an insurer or broker how much it can charge for its policies. Neither is it my 
role to tell an insurer what factors it should take into account when assessing risk.
When calculating what premium to charge individual policyholders, Aviva will take numerous 
different factors into account  these are likely to include, but are not limited to, the 
policyholders postcode, the age of the drivers, the value of the vehicles, the number of fault 
claims and non-fault claims etc. And different insurers assess risk differently. What is high 
risk to one may not be to another. Individual insurers may also use different data when 
assessing the risk posed. But thats not unusual or unfair. 
We cannot tell Aviva (or any insurer) that it should use, or discount, specific data. Thats 
because the risk is Avivas to take on so it will decide how to assess it and will price the 
policies it offers accordingly. Prices can go up or down, depending on what it thinks the risks 
are that year for all of its customers.
Providing they treat people fairly, insurers and brokers are entitled to charge what they feel 
they need to in order to cover a risk. So although I cannot tell Aviva how much to charge E, I 
can look at whether it treated them fairly throughout the time they held their van insurance.
I can understand why Mr E may think there had been a mistake in calculation of his 
premiums because there was a significant increase in 2020 and then a similar decrease in 
2021. He maintains that Aviva have still not given a reasonable or fair reason for the price 
increase. 
Mr E has said the replacement van was newer (seven years) and therefore it is reasonable 
to assume it would be of higher value than the previous van. When I looked at the 
underwriting calculations, I saw that the increase in price when the mid-term change was 
made was mainly due to an increase in vehicle value and length of ownership. I think this 
explains the increase in premium.
As previously stated, we are unable to insist how an insurer calculates its premiums and 
Aviva does not have to share its methodology. I can only reassure Mr E that E has been 
treated the same way as all other customers.I agree that Aviva took a long time to investigate Mr Es concerns about the increase in 
premium. And that it didnt always meet the deadlines it had set. I have seen that Aviva 
offered £75 in compensation for the time taken for it to complete its investigations and I feel 
this is fair in the circumstances. 
After looking in detail at this case and all the information provided, I dont believe Aviva was 
unfair in its calculation of price for Es van insurance policy at either the mid-term adjustment 
or the annual renewal. And I dont think it has treated E any differently to its other customers. 
Therefore, I dont uphold Es complaint that they have been treated unfairly by Aviva and do 
not require Aviva to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E on behalf of 
E to accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman