DRN-3843606
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank plc disclosed private and confidential information about 
her bank account which caused her considerable distress.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 19 October 2022. This is what I said:
What happened
Lloyds made an error and sent an email about Mrs Ss personal bank account to her 
husbands business email address. Although the email didnt contain any amounts, it 
informed him that his wife had an account which was overdrawn and that her credit card 
required urgent payment in full.
Mrs S considered this error to be a serious breach of her privacy, causing a severe impact 
on her marital relationship. This is because the disclosure led to questions about her 
financial affairs and caused her to have to disclose information about credit cards and debt 
which she had wanted to remain private and confidential. Mrs S feels that this has caused 
her humiliation, distress and turmoil. She describes the damage as being immeasurable. 
She also feels this has created a trust issue, put significant strain on her marriage and left 
her feeling bereft and isolated.
Mrs S complained to Lloyds Bank and, although they could not see that they made an error, 
due to the impact upon her personal circumstances they paid her £250 compensation. They 
also sent Mrs S flowers. 
Mrs S then had a further conversation with Lloyds. Mrs S claims that the representative 
admitted the error and made a personal comment about her husband which downplayed the 
impact. Mrs S felt this was audacious and was further offended when Lloyds Bank 
commented on how Mr S would react to the release of information.
Mrs S complained to this service and, after we became involved, Lloyds Bank realised that 
they had, after all, made an error and should not have sent the email to Mrs S s husband.
The investigator recommended Lloyds Bank offer Mrs S £750 compensation. Lloyds Bank 
accepted this view, however Mrs S remains dissatisfied with the amount of compensation. 
Her position is that £5,000 would be a fairer reflection of the trouble and upset caused.  
This case has now been referred to me to look at.
My findings / What Ive provisionally decided 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As Lloyds accept they made an error, whats left for me to decide is what is fair and 
reasonable to put this right. Having done so, for the following reasons, I have come to the 
view that the compensation award should be increased to £1,500. I appreciate Mrs S will still 
be disappointed, as I understand she feels the severe upset and distress caused by the error 
warrants a higher amount of compensation. But Ill explain what Ive considered when 
coming to this figure.
Although there hasnt been a financial loss here, it is clear that Lloyds made an error which 
had a very serious impact on Mrs S. Mrs S wished to keep her financial affairs private and 
confidential, which she was entitled to. On one hand, no amounts or balances were given 
out, so I can see why Lloyds might think that the impact in sharing limited information with a 
spouse wouldnt usually have such a serious impact. But in the individual circumstances of 
this complaint, Im satisfied that the impact of this error is significant. 
In considering what Mrs S has said about this impact, Im persuaded by her testimony 
around just how significant this was. Mrs S says that she had made a commitment to her 
husband not to have any debt, or credit cards. How Mrs S managed her finances in this 
regard was a matter for her to decide. But Im satisfied that she was trying to keep elements 
of her finances confidential and private and that Lloyds error put her in a very difficult 
position, having to explain to her husband that she had a credit card and that it required 
urgent payment in full. 
This was information she just didnt want to share, as she had made a commitment not to 
have a credit card or debt. But through no fault of her own, Lloyds disclosed this to her 
husband and this led to a very difficult situation between her and her husband, which 
wouldnt have been likely to have arisen in this way were it not for Lloyds error.
Mrs S has explained the extent that the sharing of this information put significant strain on 
her marriage and left her feeling bereft, isolated and in turmoil. Shes also explained how the 
impact of this error is still being felt now. Ive also taken account of the fact that, although it 
appears to have been inadvertent, Lloyds were slow to accept responsibility and were 
insensitive in their communications, which would have added to the emotional impact. For 
these reasons I am also persuaded that Lloyds should offer Mrs S further compensation, 
beyond that which it initially offered and what our investigator suggested too. 
So, having considered all of the information from both sides here, I think £1,500 is an 
amount which more fairly reflects the significant impact this had and continues to have on 
Mrs S here. In saying this, Ive had regard for all Mrs S has said and her comments on the 
examples of awards of this nature we publish on our website. But, I hope shell appreciate 
that our website can only act as a general guide and my role is to look at each case on its 
individual merits. Having done so, I feel that the amount I intend to award here is fair and 
reasonable.
My provisional decision 
For the reasons given above, I plan to uphold this complaint and award £1,500. 
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 16 November 
2022. Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set 
out above.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence before the deadline. 
Lloyds said that, having considered the latest points raised, theyre in agreement with the 
recommendation. Mrs S responded to say she didnt have anything to add other than 
disappointment. Mrs S says her relationship has deteriorated because of the error, which 
she described as horrendous, and added that no price can compensate for the damage 
caused.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Thinking about everything again and in light of Mrs Ss recent comments I still think £1,500 is 
an amount which fairly reflects the significant impact this had and continues to have on Mrs 
S. So, its that amount that Ill be telling Lloyds to pay in total here. Its my understanding that 
Lloyds has already paid Mrs S £250 here and so Lloyds would be entitled to deduct that from 
the overall amount it now has to pay Mrs S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank Plc, to pay Mrs S 
£1,500 in total for the distress and inconvenience caused here, less any amounts that have 
already been paid in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman