DRN-3754997
The complaint
Mr H complained because Phoenix Life Limited removed the guaranteed annuity rate 
(GAR) from his pension without his agreement. This led to the amount it quoted him for his 
pension being less than the amount he expected to receive.
What happened
In late 2008 Phoenix wrote to policyholders to outline a proposal to remove the GAR from 
their policy in return for an immediate increase in the policy value. The letters (an initial letter 
and reminders) asked policyholders for their thoughts on whether or not the idea was a good 
one. They also said that if there was enough interest to proceed Phoenix would write to 
policyholders with further details. The letters enclosed booklets and illustrations to explain 
the changes in more detail.
In mid 2009 Phoenix wrote to policyholders to outline details of a formal vote on the 
proposal. The options available to policyholders were to vote for the proposal, against the 
proposal, or to opt out of it. The letter explained that if a policyholder wanted to keep their 
existing GAR they could opt out of the proposal.
Mr H didnt respond to any of the above letters.
The majority of policyholders (who voted) voted for the change and in December 2009 the 
High Court approved it with a Scheme of Arrangement. On 1 January 2010 all policies 
(including Mr Hs) where the policyholder hadnt opted out were changed  the GAR was 
removed and the fund value was increased.
In January 2010 Phoenix wrote to Mr H to confirm the change to his policy. 
During 2021 Phoenix sent retirement quotes to Mr H which included a GAR. In February 
2022 it sent Mr H a further retirement quote which didnt have the GAR.
Mr H complained to Phoenix. He said he wasnt aware of the proposal and he didnt agree, 
and wouldnt have agreed, to the GAR being removed. Phoenix said Mr H didnt respond to 
any of its letters so his policy was changed as outlined above. It didnt uphold this part of the 
complaint. It nevertheless offered Mr H:
£500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the loss of expectation due to 
two letters in 2021 containing incorrect retirement quotes
and £200 for the trouble and upset caused by it failing to respond to his complaint 
promptly.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt Phoenix 
acted fairly in removing the GAR as it most likely sent Mr H the letters inviting him to vote 
and/or opt out of the proposal. He also felt the compensation offered for the subsequent 
errors was in line with what he would have recommended.
Mr H disagreed with our investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsman to review 
things. He thought it was wrong for Phoenix to automatically remove the GAR for those 
consumers who didnt reply, knowing that the change would benefit Phoenix and be in its 
interest. He said Phoenix doesnt have copies of the actual letters it sent (it only has copies 
of template letters) and that he didnt receive anything from it about the proposed change. 
He also commented on the process Phoenix followed eg not using recorded delivery, not 
trying an alternative method of communication if a consumer doesnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to make it clear first of all that I dont have the power to overturn the High Courts 
decision to approve the proposed change. I can however look at the process followed and 
decide whether Phoenix treated Mr H fairly.
The general process
It doesnt strike me as being fair (or potentially enforceable) for Phoenix to unilaterally 
remove the GAR from the pension contracts. To make it fair and reasonable, I think it 
needed to explain the proposed changes and options to policyholders.
There isnt any requirement for businesses to send an explanation of this sort of proposal via 
recorded delivery or for them to try another method (such as phone or email) if no response 
was received. In my view, using standard post is fine. However, I would expect more than 
one letter to be sent. This is because its possible that one letter goes astray or undelivered; 
but its far less likely that two or more letters would be undelivered.
As Mr H has pointed out, Phoenix no longer has copies of the actual letters it says it sent to 
him. Ive nevertheless seen:
a template of the initial letter and the reminders that were sent explaining the proposal
a booklet which explained the proposed change
a sample illustration of how the changes would affect the policy
a template of the letter that explains the vote and available options.
I think its most likely that the templated letters Ive seen contain the same information that 
was in the actual letters that were sent to Mr H. In my view the initial letters combined with 
the other documents clearly outlined what was being proposed, why it was being proposed, 
what effect it would have on the pension and what the benefits and risks were. The initial 
letter also outlined what would happen going forward ie if enough policyholders voted in 
favour of the change and the High Court approved it the changes would be made to every 
policy. And the final letter outlined the voting process and options available.
Im therefore satisfied that Phoenix acted fairly in respect of the general process it followed 
and the information it sent to policyholders.
Mr Hs specific case
Irrespective of the general process, the main issue here is Mr Hs argument that he didnt 
receive anything from Phoenix.
In my view, the important mailings were the ones sent once the actual vote was going 
ahead. Thats because up to that point the proposal was simply an idea and a possibility  and Phoenix was only canvassing opinion on whether it was a good idea and how 
policyholders might vote if a formal vote was held.
As this was such an important change I think in order to treat Mr H fairly Phoenix needed to 
do more than simply send the initial details of the vote. I think it also needed to send at least 
one reminder or a confirmation of the position following the vote. As Ive said above, Ive 
seen a template of the letter Phoenix sent that explained the vote and the available options. 
Im satisfied this set things out clearly. Ive also seen a template of the letter Phoenix sent in 
January 2010 following the change to the policy.
Its impossible for me to know whether Mr H received any of the mailings. Phoenix has 
provided details of its records which Im satisfied shows that it sent them to the correct 
address. As Ive alluded to above, its always possible that one letter goes astray or isnt 
delivered. But here Im satisfied that four letters were sent  two of which were after the vote 
became formal. I think its extremely unlikely that four correctly addressed letters werent 
delivered to the correct address. So, while Im mindful of what Mr H has said, I conclude that 
the letters were correctly sent and were most likely received.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that Phoenix sent Mr H the required information as per the general 
process it followed. And as Mr H didnt opt out, I conclude that Phoenix acted fairly when it 
removed the GAR from his pension.
Phoenixs compensation offer
The remaining issues relate to the compensation Phoenix has offered. I dont think I need to 
determine whether or not Phoenix has done anything wrong as its already accepted that it 
sent out incorrect retirement quotes and took too long to consider the complaint. What I need 
to determine is whether the compensation offered is fair.
I think much of the distress and inconvenience Mr H suffered by the length of time Phoenix 
took to investigate and answer his complaint was alleviated by the fact that he was being 
professionally represented. Nevertheless Mr H was no doubt anxious to find out what was 
happening with his pension and specifically whether or not the GAR would apply.
I also think Mr H would have been distressed and confused by the differing pension amounts 
he was being quoted. He was also most likely inconvenienced by having to chase this to find 
out what the true position was.
However, Im satisfied that the total amount Phoenix offered is fair in the circumstances for 
what Mr H has suffered.
Accordingly, I conclude that Phoenixs offer was fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2023.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman