DRN-4260202
The complaint
Ms M complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) handling of her 
claim under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms M made a claim to RSA following an escape of water incident at her home which caused 
damage to her study. RSA sourced replacement flooring for the study but Ms M raised a 
concern as it wasnt an exact match of the existing flooring. Then, while carrying out 
removals, RSAs contractor caused damage to Ms Ms living room flooring. RSA then offered 
to repair this, but Ms M felt this should also be replaced to match the flooring in the study. 
RSA felt this disagreement meant they couldnt complete the repairs and offered to cash 
settle the claim. Ms M then complained about RSAs decision to cash settle, repair the living 
room flooring and about delay in progressing the claim. 
RSA responded and agreed there had been periods of delay but felt these werent 
attributable to RSA. They said theyre aware there were occasions where their appointed 
contractors were unable to keep to their appointments due to their workers personal 
circumstances. RSA said this was beyond their control. 
RSA said, in relation to the flooring in the study, while they accept the replacement isnt an 
identical match to Ms Ms previous study flooring, it classifies as a like for like replacement 
on a quality of product basis. They said a cash settlement alternative was offered to Ms M to 
allow her to source her own replacement, but she declined this. RSA said they understand 
Ms M has had her study designed to match her living room flooring so she believes the 
replacement being offered by RSA doesnt meet their obligation to restore her home. RSA 
said Ms Ms policy confirms they wont replace undamaged parts of her home, even if they 
share a design or are part of a set or suite if the damage is restricted to a clearly defined 
area. RSA said, despite the study and living room flooring sharing the same style, the 
damage caused by the escape of water was restricted only to Ms Ms study. They said, as 
the study and living room are separated by a connecting door and doorbar, they count as 
two clearly defined separate areas. 
In relation to the damage to the living room flooring, RSA said they agreed to deal with this 
damage as a goodwill gesture as the indentation to the flooring is suspected to have been 
caused by gravel and stones from Ms Ms driveway being picked up by their contractors 
workboots. They said, this means the damage to the living room is unrelated to the damage 
to the study, so the living room isnt included under the claim. They agreed with the decision 
to offer a repair for the damage and said theyd appointed a flooring expert who was of the 
opinion a repair was possible. 
RSA said the flooring expert attended Ms Ms home, but she wouldnt allow them to carry out 
the repair as she was concerned about how long the repair would last. RSA said the 
company were experts in this area and the repair works would also be covered by the 
policys standard guarantee against poor workmanship, which lasts for 12 months. RSA said, 
as theyve confirmed theyre able to complete a repair, they wouldnt increase their limit of 
liability to include a replacement of the living room flooring. RSA said, regardless of whether 
or not the living room flooring was included in the claim rather than as a goodwill gesture, the 
limit of their liability would still be limited to the repair. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms M. He thought RSAs decision to offer a cash 
settlement and to repair the damage to the living room flooring was unreasonable. He 
recommended RSA complete the repairs to Ms Ms home and they should replace the living 
room flooring. He also recommended they pay £300 compensation. Ms M agreed but RSA 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. Theres no dispute theres an insured event here in relation to the repairs to 
the study. Theres also no dispute that the damage to the living room flooring was likely 
caused by RSAs contractors. The main areas of dispute here relate to RSAs decision to 
offer a cash settlement and their decision to repair the living room flooring. Ms M doesnt 
want to accept a cash settlement due to the stress involved in finding her own contractor and 
the significant impact it would have on her health condition. Ms M also doesnt feel its fair for 
RSA to only repair her living room flooring particularly as her flooring wont then match the 
study room flooring and she feels the repair will only provide a short-term solution. 
The first point Ive considered is RSAs offer of a cash settlement. Once an insurer has 
commenced repairs, we consider that theyve entered into a repair contract with the 
policyholder  in essence, an agreement has been reached where the claim will be settled 
by repairing the damage. Thats important because if things go wrong or if something 
unexpected arises  for example, the repair is much more complicated and/or much more 
expensive than the insurer first realised  we generally say the insurer cant turn back the 
clock and seek to settle the claim on another basis e.g. by paying cash. In this case, RSA 
have started carrying out repairs. But I dont think it would always be unreasonable, even in 
these circumstances, for an insurer to still step back and refuse to carry out repairs. There 
might be circumstances where a customer might be acting unreasonably to the point the 
relationship between the insurer and policyholder has broken down. 
  
I can see RSA feel the claim has reached an impasse here. They say Ms M isnt agreeing to 
choose replacement flooring for the study on the basis it wont match the flooring in the living 
room. RSA say they cant therefore progress the claim as their limit of liability only extends to 
repairing the existing flooring in the living room. So, despite RSA already starting the repair 
works, Ive looked at whether its fair, in these circumstances, for RSA to cash settle the 
claim.  
RSA refer to the policy terms and conditions which say they wont pay for replacing or 
changing undamaged parts of the buildings which belong to a set or suite or which have a 
common design or use when the damage is restricted to a clearly defined area. RSA say the 
damage caused by the escape of water was restricted to Ms Ms study and, as this is 
separated from the living room by a connecting door and doorbar, they count as two clearly 
defined separate areas under the terms of the policy. RSA also say, whenever damage is 
sustained to a policyholders building, they review the damage to check whether its more economically viable to repair or replace the item. They say their contractor appointed an 
expert in wood repair who was of the opinion that a repair was possible. RSA say Ms M 
didnt allow the expert to carry out repairs as she was concerned about how long the repair 
would last. RSA refer to the policy terms and conditions which say the most theyll pay for 
any one claim is the amount it will cost them to repair the damage. RSA say, as theyve 
confirmed theyre able to complete a repair, they wont increase their limit of liability to 
include a replacement of the living room flooring. 
Having considered all of the evidence, I dont think Ms M is being unreasonable in declining 
RSAs proposal to repair her living room flooring. I have taken into account what RSA say, 
but I dont believe the damage to the living room flooring falls within the policy terms and 
conditions. This damage hasnt been caused by an insured event, instead it was caused by 
RSAs contractors error. And, RSA appear to accept this as they say in their complaint 
response that theyve treated this damage as a goodwill gesture which is why the living 
room isnt included under Ms Ms claim. So, while I do acknowledge what the terms and 
conditions say, I dont think theyre applicable to the damage to the living room flooring. 
Where an insured event occurs, an insurer will settle the claim in line with the policy terms 
and conditions. And, where a claim involves damage to flooring in a clearly defined area, its 
generally not unreasonable for an insurer to decline to pay for replacement flooring to any 
other unaffected rooms  this is particularly the case where the policy terms and conditions 
set out the same wording it does in this case. I acknowledge it will be frustrating for a 
customer to then be left with flooring which may not be an identical match in each room, but 
its a reasonable compromise as, generally, the insured event wont have been the insurers 
fault so its not unfair for them to replace only the damaged flooring to the clearly defined 
room which forms part of the claim. 
In this case though, I dont think its fair in the circumstances for Ms M to have to make that 
compromise. Theres no dispute that the damage to the living room flooring was likely 
caused by RSAs contractors. This damage doesnt fall within the claim, so the policy terms 
and conditions dont apply. So, Ive thought carefully about what I think would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances here. I can see the contractors expert is of the view the 
flooring in the living room can be repaired. I dont doubt this, but RSA refer to the policy 
terms and conditions which say all repairs carried out by RSAs preferred suppliers are 
guaranteed for 12 months in respect of quality of workmanship. RSA also say the chosen 
company are experts in their area and have completed many repairs to a very high standard. 
I acknowledge theres a guarantee offered as part of the policy terms and conditions, but as 
mentioned above, this isnt a claim against the policy  so I dont think its fair to apply the 
terms and conditions. 
I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances for any resolution here to be lasting and 
effective  and outside of the policy terms, I dont think a 12-month guarantee offers Ms M 
with a reasonable level of confidence that this specific repair would be lasting and effective. 
So, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances for RSA to replace the flooring in the 
living room. Replacing the living room flooring would also resolve Ms Ms concern about the 
flooring in the study not matching the living room flooring. I acknowledge that might well 
have been the case in any event had RSAs contractor not damaged the living room flooring, 
but the fact is they have  and RSA must put this right. 
So, in the circumstances of this case, I think replacing the living room flooring is a fair and 
reasonable way to put Ms M back in the position she was in had the issue not occurred. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think Ms M has been unreasonable in her request for the 
living room flooring to be replaced. So, in light of this, and the fact that RSA have started the 
repairs, I dont think its fair in the circumstances for RSA to resolve the claim by cash settlement. And RSA should settle the claim by completing the repairs  which includes the 
replacement flooring in the living room.      
Ive looked at the claim notes provided by RSA and its clear Ms M was very upset and 
frustrated about the delays caused in the claim. I acknowledge RSA say the delays were 
outside of their control, but it was their contractors who were rearranging appointments, so 
RSA are responsible for any delays caused by this. In addition to this, I can see Ms M 
reported the incident to RSA on 30 March 2022 but the drying out works dont actually start 
until four months later. Between this time, theres an occasion where the contractor confirms 
theyll be carrying out strip out works but are waiting for the storage company to arrange 
removals. Ms M explains she doesnt want certain items to be removed from her home and 
asks for them to be stored in her living room. Things again are progressing slowly around 
this point. The claim notes also show theres a few occasions where Ms M calls RSA to say 
she hasnt heard from the contractor and to raise concerns about how long things are taking.
Theres also further upset and frustration caused to Ms M in relation to the repairs not being 
completed sooner. I acknowledge RSA say the claim reached an impasse but, given what 
Ive said about RSAs offer to repair the living room flooring being unfair, I think RSA are 
responsible for the work not being completed. Ms M was looking for a resolution which 
involved her living room flooring being replaced  but this wasnt offered by RSA. Taking into 
account the impact of these errors on Ms M, I think RSA should pay Ms M £300 
compensation. I acknowledge the claim notes show RSA agreed to waive Ms Ms excess of 
£350 but I cant see this was specifically in relation to all the points Ive identified here. So, I 
think its fair and reasonable for RSA to pay £300 compensation. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that RSA have acted unfairly in not offering to replace the living room 
flooring and looking to cash settle the claim instead of completing the repairs. So, RSA 
should complete the repairs  which includes replacing the living room flooring. RSA should 
also pay Ms M £300 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman