DRN-4067334
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr O complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax failed to set up their 
joint account correctly. 
What happened
Mrs K and Mr O visited Halifax in July 2022 to open a joint account as they wanted to save 
for a new home. The account was opened, but only Mr Os name was showing. They were 
told it was a technical fault and that it would be resolved. Following this, Mr O received a 
card for the account and was able to log into the app, however no card arrived for Mrs K. 
In December 2022 Mrs K and Mr O complained as they still hadnt received Mrs Ks card. 
They were told the issue had been resolved and they were paid £25 in compensation. 
However, the issue hadnt been resolved as Mrs K still didnt have access to the account. In 
January 2023 Halifax sent Mrs K a card and PIN and offered an additional £70 to resolve the 
complaint. As it had taken five months to resolve the issue, our service was asked to look 
into things to see if we felt the offer was fair. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that while Halifax had admitted error and offered 
compensation, the amount should be higher. He asked them to pay an additional £75, 
bringing the total compensation to £165. 
Halifax agreed, however Mrs K and Mr O remained unhappy. They said they felt as though 
they were being profiled both economically and socially and they were offended by the 
piecemeal offers Halifax had been making. They said they felt as though Halifax had placed 
them in a certain class which is the reason why they treated the complaint with laxity. 
Our investigator passed on Mrs K and Mr Os concerns to Halifax and asked for their 
comments. Halifax explained that the account could not be opened in joint names initially 
due to a genuine system error. A human error then followed as the member of branch staff 
failed to add Mrs K to the account. The mistake was eventually corrected when the 
complaint was raised. 
Our investigator explained this to Mrs K and Mr O, and said he remained of the view the 
account wasnt set up properly due to human error rather than anything else. After reviewing 
the file again with Mrs K and Mr Os further comments in mind, he did not see any indication 
of profiling, and reiterated that the compensation amount of £165 already offered was fair. 
Mrs K and Mr O disagreed and asked for their complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything, I agree with the investigator for the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
Its not in dispute that Halifax made an error here and took some time to resolve the issue. 
They have explained that the errors made were both system and human related, and they 
accept it took too long for Mrs K to receive her card and for the account to also show in her 
name. 
So what I need to decide is whether or not the compensation of £165 that our investigator 
recommended is fair. 
I would also like to say that we take any allegation of profiling very seriously. And I must 
explain that while we cannot make a finding on whether a business actions were a sign of 
any type of discrimination (the Equality Act makes clear that this is exclusively a matter for 
the courts), as part of our investigation we do take the law, best practice, and industry 
guidance into account and so we can make a finding on whether we think a customer has 
been treated fairly and reasonably.
Having looked through everything, Halifax have been consistent in their communication 
when explaining that the first error was caused by a technical fault. I can see they also told 
Mrs K and Mr O this at the time they wanted to open the account. Halifax have explained the 
second error was a human one, where multiple blank profiles had been linked to the account 
in error. These were removed, and they were able to add Mrs K to the account and send out 
her card. 
Given the explanation provided by Halifax, it appears that the errors were most likely down 
to a technical fault and a human mistake. 
Mrs K and Mr O have explained they want to be compensated for lost time and for being 
derailed from their savings plans. While I completely agree the service they received was 
unsatisfactory, and that it led to them being without the joint account for around six months, I 
do recognise that while they applied for the account in July 2022, they didnt notify Halifax 
that Mrs Ks card hadnt arrived until December 2022. It then took until January 2023 to 
resolve the issue. Given the circumstances, I do believe the amount of compensation 
recommended by the investigator is fair and is along the lines of what I would have asked 
Halifax to pay, had they not offered anything at all. 
Because of this, I wont be asking Halifax to award any further compensation. I know this 
isnt the outcome Mrs K and Mr O were hoping for, but I hope I have explained why I feel it is 
fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
should pay Mrs K and Mr O a total of £165 in compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman