DRN-2846262
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how Great Lakes Insurance SE proposes to settle a claim he made on 
his commercial property insurance.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I dont intend to detail them 
again in full here. Instead I will focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr R holds a commercial insurance policy to cover his rental property. That policy 
makes it clear Great Lakes liability only extends to reinstating the damaged portion 
of the property. In this instance, this means a very small area of tiling in one of the 
bedrooms which was broken to allow a leak to be traced and repaired.
 
As the exact tiles cant be matched, and to recognise Mr R will suffer a loss of match 
Great Lakes have offered to replace all of the tiles in the bedroom. They propose to 
either cut the tiles at the doorway and install a door bar, or work with the tiles that are 
in place already to gain a finished edge. 
Mr R has said the floor continues throughout the property and therefore he expects 
the whole flooring of the property to be retiled. This would put him in the position he 
would have been had the leak not happened. By not doing this, he suggests Great 
Lakes isnt treating him fairly. 
Where there is a loss of match, we would normally expect an insurer to provide a 
contribution of 50% towards of the cost of the undamaged tiles. 
While I do agree Mr R has continuous flooring in his property, in this instance I think 
Great Lakes proposal is reasonable. Given the very small area of tiling that was 
affected, I dont think it is reasonable to expect an insurer to retile a whole property. 
Great Lakes has argued that while the flooring continues there is a solid door at the 
entrance to the bedroom, it argues this forms a natural break in the property. In the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes proposal to retile the whole of the 
bedroom, is fair and reasonable and goes beyond what it needs to do as per the 
policy terms. 
I realise Mr R will potentially suffer some loss of match to the remaining tiles, 
however I dont intend to interfere with how Great Lakes proposes to settle this claim.
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman