DRN-3704465
The complaint
Ms O complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
affordability checks before it granted loans which she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Ms O took two home collected loans from Morses between November 2016 and 
February 2017. A summary of her borrowing can be found below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 09/11/2016 02/02/2017 20 £15.00
2 £300.00 02/02/2017 sold 20 £22.50
Ms O had some problems repaying her final loan and Morses statement of account shows it 
was sold to a third party on 10 October 2017 with an outstanding balance of around £305. 
Morses considered Ms Os complaint and issued its final response letter. Morses concluded 
it hadnt made an error when it approved these loans. Unhappy with this response, Ms Os 
representative referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. He concluded Morses made a reasonable 
decision to lend these loans - he, therefore didnt uphold the complaint. 
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
Ms Os representative didnt agree with the outcome, explaining (verbatim):
Our client has said they dont agree with this decision and wont (sic) accept this and 
would like it referred to the ombudsman for final decision.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms O could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morsess checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Ms Os income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms O. These factors include:
Ms O having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms O having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms O coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms O.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms O could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms O was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Os complaint.
There were some initial indications from Ms Os representative which suggested Ms O may 
have had further loans. However, having double checked with both Morses and 
Ms Os representative only the loans in the table at the start of this decision are being 
considered here. 
Before loan one was approved, Morses took details of Ms Os income and expenditure. 
Morses recorded Ms Os income as being £378 per week with weekly outgoings of £135. 
Morses was therefore aware that she had around £243 per week in which to make the 
weekly loan payment of £15. 
Similar income and expenditure details were collected before loan two was granted. Ms O 
declared a weekly income of £378, outgoings of £158 leaving £220 per week in disposable 
income to afford the loan repayment of £22.50. 
Based solely on the declared income and expenditure information Morses couldve 
reasonably concluded Ms O would be in a position to afford the weekly repayments she had 
committed to. 
In addition to the above, before loan one only, Morses also carried out a credit search and it 
has provided a copy of the results. 
It is worth saying here that although Morses carried out a credit search there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Morses cant do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the information it received  if 
necessary.  
Having reviewed these results, there is some adverse information such as Morses being 
aware of a total of four defaults  two of which had been settled. However, the most recent 
default was recorded 15 months before loan one was approved. Which in my view, is too far 
away from her loan application to have made Morses think Ms O was likely having current 
financial difficulties. 
So, I dont think the credit checks  on its own wouldve alerted Morses to either have 
declined the loan applications or to have prompted it to make further enquiries with her. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Morses to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Ms O had provided. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Morses to have 
relied on the information Ms O provided along with the income and expenditure figures to 
show she had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments she was committed to 
making. 
Im therefore not upholding Ms Os complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Ms Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman