DRN-1700221
The complaint
Mr E complains that Guarantee Protection Insurance Ltd (GPI) hasnt fairly settled a claim he 
made for repairs to his sash windows.
What happened
On 17 November 2009 Mr E had sash windows fitted at his property by a company, which Ill 
refer to here as P.
After P had installed Mr Es windows it issued him with a manufacturers warranty, which 
covered the window profiles for 10 years and sealed double glazed units for 5 years. This 
guarantee also covered the window components, i.e.: handles, hinges and locksfor 1 
year.
While the manufacturers guarantee was provided to Mr E by P, the policy was underwritten 
by GPI. So, in the event a manufacturer wasnt able to honour the warranty terms, due to it 
ceasing to trader for example, GPI would indemnify the policyholder instead.
In around June 2019 Mr E said he noticed the spring balances (or sliders) were no longer 
supporting his sash windows. He decided to make a claim under his warranty. But P was no 
longer trading at this time. So, he contacted GPI to initiate a claim and provided two 
estimates to show the cost of repairing his windows.
GPI repudiated Mr Es claim as it said it wasnt liable for any defect that wouldnt have been 
covered under the warranty P had provided him with. It said the spring balance mechanisms 
that had failed were window components. And so, theyd have only been covered under the 
warranty for a year following installation of the windows. 
Mr E didnt agree with how GPI was intending to settle his claim. He said hed contacted the 
former director of P whod told him that spring balances should be covered for 10 years. He 
therefore disputed that the failed mechanism was a component and believed it should be 
covered as part of his 10 year warranty, which he was still within. So, he brought a claim to 
our service, which was considered by one of our investigators. 
Our investigator initially recommended upholding Mr Es complaint on the basis that the 
warranty hadnt specified that spring balance mechanisms were a component. Mr E 
accepted our investigators initial view. But GPI didnt. It stated the failed mechanism should 
be classed as a component and thus covered for only a year. 
When our investigator reconsidered this complaint having reflected on GPIs comments they 
accepted what it had said and withdrew their recommendation that it settle Mr Es claim. 
Overall, they said they were satisfied GPI had dealt with his claim in line with the warranty 
terms. So, they told Mr E they wouldnt be upholding his complaint. But he didnt agree and 
asked an ombudsman to decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, P issued the window warranty to Mr E in 
November 2009. However, its ceased trading, which means GPI has a duty to settle a 
successful claim brought by the warranty holder. I think its important to make clear that GPI 
is only liable for a defect that would have been covered under the warranty held by Mr E.
Its not in dispute that several spring balance mechanisms on Mr Es sash windows have 
failed and that this occurred in around June 2019. The warranty he holds covers the window 
profiles for 10 years, sealed double glazed units for 5 years and handles, hinges and locks 
for a year. 
The crux of Mr Es complaint is whether GPI has acted unfairly in classing the failed 
mechanism as components and therefore limiting the warranty to only 12 months from the 
date his windows were installed  namely November 2010.
Our investigator, in line with GPI, explained to Mr E that they felt a spring balance is part of a 
hinge system and, as such, ought to be considered to be a component. Its clear that Mr E 
disagrees with that opinion as he believes the mechanism isnt a lock, handle or hinge. Hes 
also said the terms of his warranty with P only specified that handles, hinges and locks were 
components. So, the 12 month warranty limitation shouldnt be applied to spring balances.
Our investigator thought the warranty was poorly worded and I agree. But thats not GPIs 
fault  it didnt draft the warranty. It was provided by P. And my decision has to be fair to 
both Mr E and GPI. 
In thinking about whether the spring balance mechanism should be classed as a component 
Ive taken on board everything Mr E told our investigator. But I think GPI has presented more 
persuasive evidence to show that spring balances are components. Ill explain why.
GPI obtained an opinion from a remedial company on whether it would consider a spring 
balance mechanism to be a component. This company explained that, if it had installed Mr 
Es windows, it would only have offered a 12 month warranty on spring balances because 
theyd be classified as hardware or component items in line with industry standards. 
GPI also provided our investigator with a definition of the term window profile from the 
fenestration industry. This said:
Both aluminium and PVC-U windows and doors are manufactured from a series of profiles 
(typically 5 or 6 metres in length) that are cut and crimped or welded together, such as the 
outer frame, sash, transom and beads. Together, the profiles make up a basic frame, and 
the companies who design and manufacture them are known as extrusion or system 
companies. To this frame, mechanical moving parts, such as handles, hinges and locking 
mechanisms are added, a glazed unit or panel is then fitted to complete a window or door.
Its clear from the above definition that a spring balance isnt part of the window profile. So, 
the 10 year warranty period cant be applied to it. Im also not satisfied that the defective 
mechanism forms part of the sealed double glazed unit. Even if it did though this would only 
attract a 5 year warranty period. And this would mean Mr E would have had until November 
2014 to bring a claim under his warranty.
I recognise that spring balances arent specifically defined as a component in Mr Es 
warranty. But I think the failed mechanism would have to be a component because if it 
wasnt it wouldnt be covered by any part of Mr Es warranty.Ive carefully considered the evidence from the former director of P, Mr P, who provided an 
opinion as to whether he thought the failed mechanism ought to be classed as a component. 
I understand that Mr E disputed our investigators interpretation of his telephone discussion 
with Mr P. Ive therefore listened to the call recording to hear what was said. And Im 
satisfied that, during that conversation, Mr P said he thought the failed mechanism was part 
of the hinge system. 
I asked our investigator to also seek an opinion from a representative of the company that 
manufactured Mr Es windows, who stated the spring balance mechanism is a component of 
the window as its a moving part. They further explained that a window profile is only the 
PVC frame, which would be guaranteed against warping for 10 years. But they said the 
components and moving parts would only be guaranteed for 12 months.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr E but I think the evidence provided by P and the window 
manufacturer supports the view GPI took that the defective part was a component and, thus, 
subject to a 12 month warranty period.
Whilst I sympathise with Mr E and recognise his strength of feeling about this complaint, I 
cant say GPI has done anything wrong in the approach its taken here. Im persuaded it 
acted in line with the terms of Mr Es warranty and been fair in how it approached and dealt 
with his claim. Im therefore not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman