DRN-3910428
The complaint
Mr C complains TM Advances Limited irresponsibly lent to him. He says TM Advances did 
not give him sufficient information prior to the loan being agreed, and that TM Advances 
interest charges are excessive. He also complains about other customer service issues. 
What happened
Mr C took out a £1,500 loan with TM Advances in March 2021. The term of the loan was 30 
months with repayments of approximately £160.
Mr C complains TM Advances did not give him the necessary information prior to agreeing to 
take the loan out. He says he was not informed of the interest applicable to the loan. He also 
complains the loan was irresponsibly lent, and there have been customer service failings by 
TM Advances.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint be upheld. In summary he said:
TM Advances had given Mr C the necessary information regarding the level of 
interest applicable to loan before it was taken out;
TM Advances had acted fairly when providing the loan. This was because our 
investigator was satisfied it had completed reasonable and proportionate checks , 
and these showed the loan was likely affordable to Mr C; and
TM Advances had handled the customer service elements of Mr Cs complaint fairly 
when considering how it handled Mr Cs interest calculations and the collection of his 
repayments.
Mr C was unhappy with the outcome our investigator reached. He feels TM Advances have 
acted unfairly and wants it to accept a proposed settlement to resolve the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint. 
Our investigator set out a detailed initial assessment into Mr Cs complaint which explained 
our approach to complaints about irresponsible lending. As such I wont repeat them here, 
but for clarity Ive considered if TM Advances completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks before lending to Mr C. Ive then considered if it made a fair decision to lend. 
In addition to the irresponsible lending aspect of Mr Cs complaint Ive also considered the 
other aspects of his complaint, namely if TM Advances provided sufficient information 
regarding the applicable interest, and the customer service elements he is unhappy with.
After doing so Im not recommending this complaint be upheld. This is for broadly the same 
reasons that our investigator set out to Mr C. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment 
to him, but Ill deal with each aspect in turn.
Irresponsible Lending 
Mr C says TM Advances irresponsibly lent him the £1,500. TM Advances disagrees and 
says that it completed reasonable and proportionate checks prior to agreeing the loan with 
Mr C. It says Mr C was taking out the loan to consolidate some of his existing credit 
commitments. 
TM Advances says that it completed an affordability assessment with Mr C which included 
getting an understanding of his income and expenditure. Mr C declared he earnt 
approximately £2,800 each month and had calculated monthly outgoings of approximately 
£1,115. 
TM Advances also gathered information into Mr Cs credit commitments. This showed that 
Mr C had a number of existing unsecured loans from multiple providers, buy to own 
agreements, and an existing credit card. The total active credit was relatively low amounting 
to around £4,000. The credit search also showed Mr C had two defaulted accounts which 
had been registered in September 2015 and April 2016 respectively. The total defaulted 
balance was around £1,700. 
TM Advances says it verified this information using Open Banking. This enabled it to get an 
insight into Mr Cs bank statements and account activity, and verify the amounts he was 
spending on his credit and non-credit commitments.
Ive carefully considered TM Advances argument and in this instance I agree with it. That is 
to say Im satisfied it completed reasonable and proportionate checks in this instance. The 
checks it completed enabled it to have a good understanding of Mr Cs finances, as well as 
having a decent understanding of his credit and non-credit commitments. And this was 
proportionate to the amount being advanced.
Even though TM Advances completed reasonable and proportionate checks; it still needed 
to consider this information carefully and make a fair decision to lend.
 
In this instance the Open Banking check that TM Advances completed showed Mr Cs 
income fluctuated. It used a lower figure of £2,500 based off of this information and worked 
out his remaining credit and non-credit commitments to be around £2,000. This meant Mr C 
would have approximately £500 disposable income per month, which wouldve been 
sufficient to cover the cost of the loan repayment of £160. TM Advances says the loan was 
therefore affordable to Mr C.
Having considered the information provided by TM Advances and Mr C, Im satisfied it made 
a fair decision to lend.
Whilst I note that Mr C did have existing credit commitments, the amounts repayable each 
month were seemingly affordable. The Open Banking information suggest that he was 
maintaining his payments well, including meeting his existing credit commitments as well as 
reducing his historic defaults. The affordability assessment TM Advances completed 
considered Mr Cs necessary outgoings such as childcare and utilities and the information it gathered supported these calculations. The information supported the affordability 
assessment and suggest that Mr C had the sufficient income to meet the increased 
repayments sustainably. Therefore Im satisfied TM Advances acted reasonably when 
approving this loan.
Pre-contract information and concerns over the interest
Mr C also complains that TM Advances did not provide sufficient information regarding the 
amount of interest which was applicable to the loan. Mr C says that TM Advances website 
did not provide the necessary information to him. Mr C is also unhappy TM Advances 
interest is front load.
TM Advances says it provided Mr C with the relevant information including the pre-contract 
information. TM Advances says this document sets out the applicable interest, and Mr C 
wouldve had to agree to this before taking out the loan.
Ive reviewed the information which was sent to Mr C prior to him proceeding with the loan; 
and Im satisfied it is sufficiently clear in explaining what the interest is and how it will be 
applied to his loan. Whilst Im not sure what information Mr C may or may not have seen on 
TM Advances website in March 2021; Im satisfied the pre-contract information which was 
sent sufficiently covers the necessary information. 
Ive no reason to doubt Mr C received this information, and Im therefore satisfied that TM 
Advances acted fairly in relation to this aspect of his complaint.
In relation to the way TM Advances calculates its interest, Ive seen no evidence that it acted 
unfairly in this manner. Whilst I understand the point Mr C is making, ultimately TM 
Advances is allowed to structure its loans this way. So, it follows that by doing so, Im 
satisfied it is acting fairly. Ive explained above Im satisfied that TM Advances provided Mr C 
with the necessary information in regard to the interest in relation to this loan. So again, Im 
satisfied TM Advances has acted fairly in relation to this aspect too.
Customer service issues
Mr C had issues when arranging to make repayments towards his loan. He initially set up a 
direct debit mandate but this failed. Mr C wanted to set the direct debit up for the last Friday 
of the calendar month but TM Advances confirmed it could only accept payments by direct 
debit between the 1st and 28th of each month and this had to be a fixed date.
Ive considered TM Advances response to this aspect of Mr Cs complaint and again Im 
satisfied that it has acted fairly in relation to it. Whilst I can understand Mr C had a preferred 
date to make his payments, TM Advances could not accept a direct debit on a date outside 
of the 28th of each month as this would cause payment issues on months where a date was 
not applicable. I dont find this position unreasonable and therefore I cant say it was unfair 
for TM Advances to suggest Mr C use other payments options if he did not want to complete 
a direct debit mandate within the available date range.
Mr C has also raised concerns over the reporting TM Advances have made on his credit file. 
Mr C has not met the repayments of this loan, and whilst TM Advances have confirmed that 
the account is on hold whilst Mr Cs complaint is with us, it still needs to report information on 
the account. 
Mr C has provided information to our service from different credit reference agencies. And 
whilst I can see there are negative markers on Mr Cs account I dont find that unreasonable 
considering the account is not currently up to date. Different credit reference agencies report the information differently; and Ive not been provided information which demonstrates TM 
Advances is reporting information which ultimately isnt correct. So Im not persuaded it 
needs to do anything further in relation to this aspect of his complaint.
Finally, Mr C has made a proposal to settle his loan. Our service is not in a position to act as 
an intermediatory to loan settlements, and as such I wont comment further on this proposal. 
However, I would remind TM Advances of its ongoing requirement to treat Mr C with 
forbearance should it apply, and to follow any further relevant rules and regulations which 
apply to this loan going forward. 
I appreciate this outcome will come as a disappointment to Mr C but I can assure him Ive 
carefully considered all of the information that he and TM Advances have provided.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman