DRN-2280751
The complaint
Ms M complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited applied interest to her account 
and has refused to refund it. Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trades under the very 
brand.   
What happened
Ms M has a very account, which is a running credit account that allows her to make 
purchases on credit through the very website. The account offers a range of payment 
options, depending on the goods purchased. Those options include Buy Now Pay Later, 
which allows customers to buy goods and delay paying for them for up to 12 months. 
Interest accrues in that time but, as long as payment is made before the end of the deferred 
payment period, it is not applied.
In July 2018 Ms M bought an item costing £629.99 on BNPL terms. She made an identical 
payment the same day. 
Interest was applied on the purchase from July 2019  that is, 12 months after Ms M bought 
the item and when the BNPL period came to an end. Ms M said however that she had paid 
for the item at the point of purchase, so no interest should have been charged. Very noted 
that, while it had received the payment on £629.99 in July 2018, Ms M had not said that she 
wanted it applied against the purchase she had made on the same day. It had therefore 
been applied against the rest of Ms Ms account balance. 
Ms M thought that very should adjust her account, since it was clear that she had intended 
the payment to be applied against the BNPL balance. Very said it could not do that because 
of the time that had passed. Ms M referred the matter to this service, and one of 
investigators considered it. He did not believe that Ms M had been unfairly treated. She had 
not specified how the payment should be allocated. He noted too that it would have been 
apparent from the reductions in Ms Ms minimum payments (from around £65 to £5 a month) 
that the payment had been applied against the balance of Ms Ms account. 
Ms M did not accept the investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Ms M intended her payment made in July 2018 to pay for the purchase she had 
made the same day. Its unlikely that she would have made a payment for the exact amount 
of the purchase if she had intended simply to reduce her overall balance. 
I do not believe however that Ms M followed the correct procedure to ensure that the 
payment was applied as she intended. The section of website conditions that dealt with 
BNPL purchases included:
You can avoid paying any interest on your BNPL transaction by paying off the full cost 
of the transaction before the end of the delayed payment period.
If you want to make payment to a BNPL transaction, you must allocate your payment to
that specific BNPL transaction. You can do this online in My Account, by finding the
specific BNPL transaction and making payment to it, or by phoning us and telling our
advisor which BNPL transaction you wish to make your payment to. 
Since that did not happen, the payment was applied against the overall balance. The result 
was that the BNPL balance was not repaid within the 12-month deferral period, and interest 
on the purchase price for that period was added in July 2019. That was in line with the 
agreement Ms M had with very. 
Very says that it was unable to make adjustments to the account because of the time that 
had passed. I think by that it means that it is unwilling to make those adjustments, although it 
might have done so if the error had been identified sooner. I can see why Ms M thinks it 
should do so as a gesture of goodwill. 
What I must decide however is whether I should require very to make any adjustments. I do 
not believe I should. It may be that Ms M made an unfortunate error, and she has my 
sympathy, but I think the steps she needed to take in order to take full advantage of the 
BNPL option were clearly set out. In my view, it would not be fair to require very to treat her 
as if she had taken those steps.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to do anything 
more to resolve Ms Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman