DRN-2445557
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. He isnt happy that it 
turned down a claim under his commercial motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr D made a claim under his commercial motor insurance policy. His vehicle lost power and 
a fire was subsequently identified from the engine area. Admiral investigated the claim and 
initially looked to settle it.
At a later stage Admiral got an engineer to look at the vehicle and it decided to decline the 
claim. It said that it wouldnt pay the claim as it thought Mr D had acted fraudulently. 
Admirals engineer suggested that the fire was started deliberately by an external source. As 
Mr D wasnt happy about this and felt that he hadnt done anything wrong in simply reporting 
his claim he complained to this service.
Our investigators looked into this complaint for Mr D and both upheld it. They looked at the 
finer detail of the case but felt that as Mr D had appointed an engineer who supported his 
position equally they didnt think there was sufficient evidence to say that Mr D had acted 
fraudulently. They suggested that Admiral should settle the claim (plus 8% simple interest) 
and look to put Mr D back in the position he ought to have been and pay him £350 in 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused.
Admiral didnt agree, it said that its engineer was more qualified than Mr Ds and so it felt it 
acted reasonably. 
So, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I can understand Admirals point, it just doesnt have sufficient 
evidence to support its position, so I think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. Ill explain 
why. 
As both sides are fully aware of the circumstances surrounding this complaint I dont 
propose to go over the finer detail of the case. Ill simply focus on the key issue, whether 
Admiral has sufficient evidence to turn down Mr Ds claim as hed acted fraudulently and put 
a fraud marker against his name. And as our investigators both explained its evidence isnt 
strong enough - in effect both sides have one expert opinion that counter acts the other. 
I dont think Admiral acted unreasonably in turning down Mr Ds claim initially. I say this as its 
independent expert cast doubt on the genuineness of Mr Ds claim. And so I have some 
sympathy for its position. But once Mr D produced his independent report supporting his 
version of events I would have expected it to reconsider its position. And even if it didnt look 
to pay the claim at that time I wouldve expected it to look at removing any reference to fraud 
as clearly its position was undermined.
However, I think Mr Ds report goes further than this as his engineer has put forward a clear 
rationale about how the damage could have been caused just as Mr D described when he 
claimed. Mr Ds qualified expert opinion is detailed and provides a plausible explanation as 
to how the fire damage was caused. I accept that Admirals expert doubts this position and 
maintains that an external source was the cause of the fire, but I dont think it has sufficient 
evidence to say that its expert is more credible than Mr Ds  as Ive already suggested the 
two reports, in effect, just cancel each other out. And an important piece of evidence (the 
battery cover which Admirals expert heavily relied on in forming their view) has gone 
missing which meant Mr D and his expert havent been able to fully consider this.
So, although Admiral feels its expert engineer is more qualified than Mr Ds I think he was 
clearly qualified enough to express a clear and detailed opinion. And that opinion, which 
Mr D paid £1,500 for, has clearly supported Mr Ds position and his engineer feels that 
Admirals assertion, that Mr D caused the fire damage himself, is incorrect. 
But for Admiral to allege fraud Id expect its position to be stronger. One of our investigators 
spoke to their engineer and although they clearly have doubts about Mr Ds engineers 
evidence he couldnt be stronger than that. And Admiral and its engineer would need to be if 
its allegation was to hold up.
My role is to judge the evidence before me. And as I find each independent expert report 
equally persuasive I cant say that Admiral has acted fairly in citing fraud and declining Mr 
Ds claim. As such, the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this 
case is for Admiral to settle Mr Ds claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy adding 8% simple interest for the time hes been without the money. It should also 
pay his expert opinions costs; remove any fraud or voidance markers from any internal or 
external databases and provide a letter of explanation so Mr D can approach his new insurer 
and ensure hes paying the correct premium; to refund Mr D a pro-rata refund if it wouldve 
allowed his new vehicle to have been placed on cover; and pay Mr D £350 compensation.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons outlined above, that I dont uphold this complaint. I require Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to;
settle Mr Ds claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
paying 8% simple interest per annum from the date of claim until the date of 
settlement,
reimburse Mr Ds expert opinions costs paying 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement, 
remove any fraud or voidance markers from all internal and external databases and 
provide a letter of explanation setting out the correct settlement details,
establish if it would have allowed Mr D to place his new vehicle on cover and if it 
would to pay Mr D a pro-rata refund of premium, and
pay Mr D £350 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman