DRN-3304689
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi 
Capital (UK) Plc trading as Hitachi Personal Finance was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 17 January 2018, Miss T was supplied with a used car through a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Hitachi. The agreement was for £12,145 over 60 months; with 59 monthly 
repayments of £239.36 and a final payment of £240.36. At the time the car was almost two 
years old and had done 16,752 miles.
In August 2020, the car broke down because of an engine failure. Miss T complained to 
Hitachi about the quality of the car, as she didnt think it was fit for purpose. But Hitachi didnt 
agree, and they said there was no evidence the car was faulty when it car was supplied to 
Miss T. Miss T wasnt happy with Hitachis response, and she referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said it was clear there was a fault with the car. But this didnt mean the fault 
was present when the car was supplied to Miss T. And, as Miss T had driven the car for 
around 37,000 miles over around 30 months before the fault occurred, in the absence of any 
other evidence to the contrary he thought that it was more likely than not that the fault wasnt 
present when the car was supplied. So, he didnt think Hitachi needed to do anything more.
Miss T didnt agree with the investigator. She said that not all cases require solid evidence 
yet your decision is based on physical evidence. She explained that shed lost thousands of 
pounds as a result of the car breaking down, that Hitachi were rude to her and refused her a 
payment holiday, and this added to the emotional issues she suffered.
Miss R also said that wed not considered the additional costs shed incurred  phone calls, 
storage, hire cars etc.  or that the car has reduced in value and Hitachi refused to take it 
back once it had failed. So, shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Miss T has raised her complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. One 
effect of section 75 is that (subject to certain limitations), a person who pays a supplier for 
goods or services with their credit card can claim against the card issuer if the supplier 
doesnt keep to the agreement or misrepresents it.
My role isnt to decide whether or not section 75 applies here. Rather, Im required to decide 
what, if anything, Hitachi should do to resolve Miss Ts complaint. In doing that, I must 
decide what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other things) any 
relevant law. Relevant law includes section 75 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Hitachi are responsible. Whats 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the vehicles 
history.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Hitachi can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, its for Miss T to show that it was present when the car was supplied. So, 
if I thought the car was faulty when Miss T took possession of it, and this made the car not of 
a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Hitachi to put this right.
The car was supplied to Miss T on 17 January 2018, and it broke down on 4 August 2020. At 
the time of the breakdown the car had been in Miss Ts possession for around two and a half 
years, during which time itd done 38,973 miles.
Ive seen a copy of a report, done for Miss Ts insurance company, dated 19 August 2020. 
This report says there was a hole in the front of the engine block which resulted in a 
catastrophic engine failure. Miss T has said that this was caused by a broken degas pipe, 
but the report doesnt say what caused the damage to the engine. Or, more importantly for 
the purposes of this complaint, whether it was caused by an issue that was present or 
developing at the time the car was supplied.
Because of the amount of time between the car being supplied to Miss T and it breaking 
down, the CRA implies that its for her to prove the fault that caused the breakdown was 
present or developing at the time of supply. The report done for the insurance company 
doesnt show this, and I havent seen any other evidence showing this either.
Miss T has said that not all cases require solid evidence, and Ive also considered whats 
more likely than not to have happened. Ive seen the car passed an MOT on 30 August 
2019, when itd done 43,333 miles, with no advisories. 
Im satisfied the hole in the engine wouldnt have been present at point of sale, otherwise the 
car wouldnt have been able to be driven for 30 months and 38,973 miles. Its also likely that 
a hole in the engine wouldve been identified through a regular service or MOT. And if there 
was a fault with the car in January 2018 that resulted in the engine failing then, given the 
time and mileage since supply, I think its more likely than not that this failure wouldve 
happened sooner. So, Im satisfied that car was of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And 
Hitachi arent responsible for the engine failure, so they dont need to take any further action.
I appreciate this was a difficult and stressful time for Miss T. And the engine failure left her 
without transportation, which she needed for her employment, and facing additional costs 
she hadnt expected to pay. Whats more, she had to get a replacement car, which shes 
said cost her £300 a month, while still paying Hitachi. And Hitachi had told her that she 
wasnt eligible for a payment holiday (providing her with different options for customers who 
were suffering financial difficulties instead).However, Id only look to compensate Miss T for this if I felt Hitachi were responsible for the 
engine failure, and if all the additional costs she incurred were as a direct result of the engine 
failure. While Im satisfied the additional costs were incurred because of the engine failure, 
for the reasons stated above, Im satisfied that Hitachi arent responsible for what happened 
to the car. And, as a result, I wont be asking then to compensate Miss T for these costs.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint about Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc 
trading as Hitachi Personal Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman