DRN-2677443
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to prevent his loss when he 
sent money to one of its customers as a result of a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview of some key events here. 
In April 2019 Mr S received an email invoice in relation to a payment he was expecting to 
make to his decorators. Later the same day he made an online payment of £4,300 from his 
account to the account details provided in the email. Mr S was unaware at the time the email 
from his decorator had been intercepted and the account details changed. The funds 
credited an unknown third-party account, rather than his decorators account as hed 
intended. Mr Ss account is with Barclays and the account that received his money was also 
with Barclays.
The following day, when Mr Ss decorator contacted him to say he had not received the 
payment he realised something was wrong. He says at the time whilst he was aware and 
cautious about emails from scam accounts, he was unaware that scammers could alter an 
email from a genuine account. When he realised what had happened, he informed Barclays 
in an attempt to recover the funds from the beneficiary account. But by the time this 
happened, almost all of Mr Ss funds had already been transferred out of the account. 
Mr S asked Barclays to refund him the full £4,300 hed lost, saying it had failed in its duty of 
care to him as a customer. He didnt think it had done enough to warn or protect him. 
Barclays investigated Mr Ss complaint but didnt agree to refund his loss. It said it does its 
best to provide scam warnings through branch interactions, post, media campaigns and 
through its own website, and that it followed all its usual procedures. It upon notification of 
possible authorised push payment (APP) fraud, placed a block on the beneficiary account 
but unfortunately, Mr Ss funds had been withdrawn and it was unable to recover his money. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. His complaint about Barclays acts and omissions 
as his bank  specifically in relation to arranging, making and recovery of the payment was 
considered and decided here under a separate reference. The outcome of which was that 
Barclays were not responsible for the loss of the whole fraud amount of £4,300. It couldve 
saved some of Mr Ss loss had it acted sooner on the notification of APP fraud. So, it should 
pay £50 to Mr S in respect of the scam payment (with 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement); and an additional £200 for his upset and inconvenience. 
In addition to the above, Mr S had in his referral to our service, raised concerns about 
Barclays not doing enough to verify the identity of customers opening and operating 
accounts with it. He didnt think that it was fair he bears the loss as he acted in good faith 
sending the payment and it was Barclays that allowed somebody committing or at least 
connected to such frauds to use its services. Our investigator explained as Barclays havent 
had the opportunity to address these concerns this aspect of Mr Ss complaint would need to 
be considered separately.  
I think its important to note, before 31 January 2019, generally a sender could only complain 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service about their own bank in alleged APP cases. I 
appreciate in these circumstances Barclays were both the sending and receiving bank, but 
Mr Ss right to complain to our service about the acts or omissions Barclays carried out as 
the receiving/beneficiary bank comes about following changes made by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to our jurisdiction rules - which now allow, in limited 
circumstances, eligible complainants to refer complaints about the bank that received their 
funds.
Barclays agreed to us looking into this aspect of Mr Ss complaint. As such it didnt issue a 
final response letter and provided its evidence directly to us. It told us that it had no concerns 
when opening the account. Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it 
should be upheld. In summary, he couldnt fairly say that Barclays had done anything wrong. 
Mr S disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like Barclays are required to 
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) 
and to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing 
of terrorism requirements.
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through 
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship 
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the 
relationship).       
And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as 
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had 
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or 
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October 
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  
Code of Practice). Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations 
where a customer might unknowingly be at risk of financial harm as a result of fraud or a 
victim of financial abuse, but also situations where the customer might be complicit and is 
the perpetrator of fraud and/or a money mule.
There is no doubt that Mr S has been the victim of a cruel scam which has resulted in the 
loss of a large sum of money. I accept that he was tricked into transferring the money into an 
unknown third-party account and has acted in good faith throughout. I have great sympathy 
for individuals affected by such scams. But it remains that I cant reasonably ask Barclays to 
reimburse losses that resulted from the criminal actions of a third party. I have to decide 
whether or not Barclays reasonably did enough to prevent, or respond to, the alleged APP 
fraud. And if it did not whether its acts or omissions fairly resulted in Mr Ss loss.    
I appreciate Mr S has said Barclays are not doing enough to verify the identity of customers 
opening and operating accounts with it, but in the circumstances of this complaint, Im 
satisfied that Barclays carried out checks to verify the identity of the named account holder 
and did its due diligence when opening the beneficiary account. There wasnt anything at the 
time that I think reasonably couldve alerted Barclays that the account it was opening would 
later be used fraudulently. So Im satisfied it didnt miss an opportunity to prevent Mr Ss loss 
when opening the account.
As Ive noted above, in addition to checks carried out at account opening, banks such as 
Barclays do have ongoing obligations to monitor their business relationships and this 
includes giving consideration to unusual and out of character transactions. But, those 
arrangements do need to accommodate that spending habits can alter and from time to time 
needs can arise for slightly larger than usual payments. It would not be practical nor 
reasonable to expect a bank to stop and check every payment made to and from an 
account. There is a balance, albeit often difficult to be achieved between allowing its 
customers to make the genuine payments they wish to make and stopping and checking 
potentially fraudulent payments. 
With this in mind Ive carefully considered whether Barclays ought to have had concerns 
about the operation of the beneficiary account meaning that it ought to have intervened. Ive 
thought about what Barclays knew about its customer and have looked at all the activity on 
the account since opening. Having done so, Im satisfied the account had been operating in 
the manner of what might be expected for an account of that type. And there wasnt any 
account activity that I think would reasonably have alerted Barclays to the possibility of fraud 
or given rise to a reason for it to act outside its mandate - which is to make the payments 
authorised by its customer. So in these circumstances I dont think Barclays reasonably 
couldve done more to prevent Mr Ss loss.
And in what way Barclays responded when it was notified of APP fraud by Mr S has been 
dealt with under a separate complaint, so I wont be commenting on it here. But for 
completeness I note that Barclays have evidenced that the notification they got from Mr S 
was the first report of fraud in relation to the beneficiary account. And as there had not been 
any prior notifications or warnings the beneficiary account was being used to misappropriate 
funds, that Barclays shouldve acted on, it cant fairly be said that Barclays missed an 
opportunity to prevent Mr Ss loss in that way. 
In conclusion, I dont think Barclays couldve done anything more as the beneficiary bank to 
have prevented the loss of Mr Ss money. So, it follows that I dont think they need to 
reimburse his loss. My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman