DRN-3976915
The complaint
Miss O complains Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) closed her account and reported a fraud 
prevention marker against her. 
What happened
On 4 May 2022 Miss Os account received a payment of £10,000. All the money was 
immediately transferred to third parties. Monzos internal system flagged these transactions 
and after a review, on the same day, it decided to close her account. It informed her of this 
and reopened the account for two months notice period to allow her access it. Monzo later 
received information and that led it to record a fraud prevention marker with CIFAS.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Miss O complained that this was applied 
unfairly. Monzo looked at Miss Os complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss O remained 
dissatisfied, she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Os concerns. He didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss O unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss O didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain my reasons. 
There are two aspects to the complaint here, the initial decision to close the account and the 
later decision to record a fraud marker.
closure of the account
The terms and conditions on the account permitted Monzo to close an account with two 
months notice. And without notice where it believes a customer has broken the law or 
attempted to break the law or the terms of the agreement.
On 4 May 2022 Monzo decided to close the account and gave Miss O the required two 
months notice. 
The records Monzo have sent us show it spoke to Miss O on the day to get more information 
on one of the payments she attempted. And, from the email Miss O sent on 28 September 
2022, Im satisfied shed received that closure notice email from Monzo and was aware of 
the position. From everything Ive seen Monzo acted within the terms and conditions on the 
account. So, I cant say they did anything wrong here and I wont be upholding this part of 
the complaint.  
CIFAS potential fraud marker
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss O is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. Our 
investigator has set out the relevant guidance so I wont repeat that here 
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss Os account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss O was deliberately dishonest 
in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
This can include Miss O allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Os complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Os account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. 
Miss O says she was complete unaware of activity on her account as shed lost her phone 
and card in August 2021. She didnt report it at the time as she thought the bag was 
misplaced. And she hadnt accessed the account since then.
But Im afraid that Miss Os version of events simply isnt plausible. I say this for a number of 
reasons.
Miss O should have been aware that not reporting the loss to Monzo at the time, in 
August 2021, was in breach of the terms which say When you add your Monzo card 
to your device you're creating a new payment instrument you can use in the same 
way as your physical Monzo card. You're responsible for making sure that nobody 
else has access to any device which you've added your Monzo card to. You're also 
responsible for keeping your Monzo card details safe and not sharing them with 
anyone else.
I find it odd Miss O didnt report the loss until after the CIFAS marker was recorded in 
September 2022. This was a number of months after shed had the emails from 
Monzo informing her of its earlier and separate decision to close the account. And 
their discussion on 4 May 2022 with her about an attempted payment that day.
After the card and phone loss in August 2021 the account continued to receive 
payments from third parties. Those individuals had also paid into the account before 
Miss O lost her phone and card. Whilst this in itself might not be unusual I also find it 
odd that the payments were always on the same day as expenditure and covered the 
expenditure from that day for a similar amount. 
There were also cash deposits into the account after August 2021.
The device registered by Miss O with Monzo to access this account was active from 
November 2020. Whilst Miss O says didnt access the account after the loss of her 
phone in August 2021, Monzos records show a change of device used to access the 
account on 1 October 2021. And on the following day the device used reverted back 
to the same one that was registered in November 2020. Monzo told us each time a 
new device is used to access a Monzo account there is an identity challenge which 
requires a selfie video. This is compared with the video provided by the customer on 
opening the account. Thats done to ensure the ID and voice used to change device 
match the video supplied at sign up. Theres nothing to explain how this could have 
taken place without Miss Os involvement.Finally, theres a direct credit to the account on 5 November 2021 described as 
payroll. On the same day a payment out of approximately two thirds of the amount 
is made to an account in Miss Os name. Based on what shes told us I find it had to 
understand why she didnt contact the bank at the point she received this payment 
from her Monzo account - which she thought was inactive since August 2021- to 
report the loss and concerns about unauthorized activity on the account. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Monzo did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss Os account. And it was also 
reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss O was complicit in 
this. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Monzo to record a fraud prevention 
marker in the circumstances that it did. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss O. But even taking into account the 
impact she says the marker is having on her, I cant ignore the fact that the available 
evidence appears to indicate that its more likely than not she was complicit in fraudulent 
activity. Overall, for the reasons Ive given, I dont think Monzo need to take any further 
action here so Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman