DRN-3485027
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about a mortgage application he made to Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax (BoS) in 2021. He is unhappy that BoS wouldnt allow him to have the same amount 
of the new mortgage on an interest-only basis as he had on his existing mortgage.
What happened
In 2009 Mr F took out a mortgage with BoS on an interest-only basis and proposed to use 
his personal pension tax-free lump sum as the repayment vehicle. The mortgage term was 
set to coincide with his retirement. While the mortgage was on an interest-only basis, that 
didnt require any capital repayments to be made, Mr F made overpayments to reduce the 
mortgage balance.
At the end of 2020 Mr F was looking into moving home and taking a new mortgage with BoS. 
His plan was to take a new mortgage with the same amount on an interest-only basis as the 
existing mortgage (around £63,000) and use the existing pension to support it. The 
additional borrowing would be on a repayment basis.
Mr F asked a broker and a member of BoS branch staff about being able to do this. He 
complained to BoS as he was told that he would have to take any new mortgage on a 
repayment basis. 
BoS responded to Mr Fs concerns in its final response letter of 1 February 2021. It 
apologised for the poor service it had provided him with and paid £50 compensation. This 
was because Mr F had been told by a member of its branch staff that he would have to take 
any new mortgage on a repayment basis. It said that this was wrong, and it would consider 
letting Mr F have part of a new mortgage on an interest-only basis if the pension was 
sufficient to support that amount required. BoS said that any application he made would be 
subject to the then current lending criteria.  
Mr F put in an application via a broker for a mortgage in the middle of 2021. He asked for a 
mortgage of slightly over £86,000.  He wanted approximately £62,500 to be on an interest-
only basis over 16 years to match the existing mortgage and just under £24,000 on a 
repayment basis over a term of 18 years. 
BoS considered the application and confirmed that the main qualifying criteria regarding 
Mr Fs circumstances and the suitability of the property were met. However, when it had 
assessed Mr Fs pension to ensure that it would be an adequate repayment vehicle for the 
interest-only part of the mortgage, it found that it was not. The amount of tax-free cash that 
was likely to be available from the pension fell short of the interest-only amount requested in 
the application. In addition, the retirement date the broker had confirmed for Mr F was after 
the interest-only part of the mortgage would be due to be repaid. BoS was only willing to 
lend Mr F £15,150 on an interest-only basis if it was to be supported by the pension. Mr Fs 
broker was informed and asked to confirm what Mr F wanted to do.
Mr F made another complaint. He was unhappy that BoS had valued the house and incurred 
the valuation fee, when it had rejected the application. 
BoS issued a further final response letter on 9 July 2021 addressing Mr Fs complaint about 
the valuation fee. It said that the valuation had been done and so the fee was payable. 
However, if it was confirmed that the application wasnt going to proceed, BoS said it would 
consider whether to refund the fee as a gesture of good will. 
Mr Fs broker confirmed the application was to be cancelled on 19 July 2021. 
Mr F wasnt happy with BoS responses and referred his complaint to this service. When he 
did, he explained that he couldnt afford the mortgage on the basis BoS had proposed whilst 
also maintaining the payments to his personal pension. He said he believed that BoS was 
disadvantaging him and trapping him in his mortgage and home. He also said that hed told 
BoS not to have the valuation on the property done until the mortgage had been agreed in 
principle, so the valuation fee should be refunded.  
One of our investigators considered Mr Fs complaint and proposed to uphold it. He 
concluded that BoS should allow Mr F to have the mortgage arrangement he wanted, with 
the interest-only arrangement effectively ported over from the existing mortgage without an 
assessment under current lending criteria or an assessment of the repayment vehicle. BoS 
could, however, complete an assessment of the additional borrowing amount against current 
lending criteria. In addition, the investigator considered that the valuation fee should be 
refunded as the mortgage application had been assessed unfairly. A further £300 was 
recommended to compensate Mr F for the upset and inconvenience BoS handling of the 
matter had caused.
BoS didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It set out why, under the regulators rules, it 
was right to assess the application in the way it had. When our investigator didnt change his 
conclusions after reviewing BoS submissions, it asked that the complaint be passed to an 
ombudsman for consideration. 
Mr F also asked that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman for consideration. He said 
from the outset of his house moving journey hed been met with a lack of honesty, 
transparency and openness from BoS, and it had also been obstructive. He said that he 
wanted to be compensated for the loss of the property hed wanted to buy, the 
disappointment hed suffered, the stress experienced and the hard work that hed had to put 
into the process. Subsequently, Mr F said that he would accept the £300 the investigator had 
recommended. However, he highlighted that he hadnt been given an explanation as to why 
BoS had behaved the way it had or given an assurance that it wouldnt behave that way 
again in the future if he wanted to move again. 
I issued a provisional decision on 3 May 2022, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
I would initially explain that a lender doesnt have to lend money. A mortgage application will 
be assessed, and that assessment will take into account various factors, including 
affordability, the suitability of the property and the suitability of any repayment vehicles. If 
there is something about the application that places it outside of the risk (formulated as 
lending criteria) the lender is willing to accept, it can reject the application. 
Over time the requirements for assessing a mortgage application have changed. The 
regulator has over time heightened the requirements applied throughout the industry to 
ensure that consumers were provided with a greater level of protection. Most relevant to this 
complaint is that the assessment of suitability and affordability for interest-only mortgages. It 
is generally no longer considered appropriate for the sale of a property to be the repayment 
strategy for the mortgage, as to do so would effectively make the borrower homeless. As such, a repayment vehicle needs to be put in place to repay the capital balance and that 
vehicle has to have a realistic chance of fulfilling that function. 
However, as the regulator recognised that this would place consumers who already had an 
interest-only mortgage in a difficult position, provision was made for them in some situations. 
In the circumstances where a consumer has an interest-only mortgage taken out before 
2014 and they want to move, if they ask for a mortgage of the same amount or less and 
have maintained the existing mortgage as they should, a lender can grant the new mortgage 
without applying current affordability criteria or requirements regarding repayment vehicles. 
That said, an application would still not be guaranteed to be accepted, as the lender would 
be allowed to assess whether the property was suitable security for the mortgage. If it 
werent, the lender would still be allowed to decline the application. 
If a consumer with an existing interest-only mortgage wants to move home and borrow more 
money, they wouldnt fall for consideration under the provisions detailed above. The lender 
would be expected to complete its usual assessments of the application and property. Mr Fs 
application falls into this category. So Santander was right to assess the application under its 
current lending criteria and that included assessing Mr Fs repayment vehicle. 
It doesnt appear that BoS had any concerns about the information given about Mr F or the 
property. However, his repayment vehicle didnt support the amount of interest-only 
borrowing he wanted. I note that Mr F believes that the pension will be worth more than 
enough to clear the mortgage. Having looked at the limited information available about the 
pension, it appears that it was anticipated to have a value at Mr Fs retirement of over 
£100,000. However, a pension is assessed as a repayment vehicle based not on its full 
projected value, but on the amount that can be taken from it as a tax-free lump sum. That is 
a maximum of 25% of the fund value and lenders will take a smaller proportion into account 
when lending because there is no guarantee that the policy will be worth the projected 
amount at the end of the term. 
It wasnt unreasonable for BoS to complete the assessment of the pension as a repayment 
vehicle. The outcome of the assessment was that Mr Fs pension could only reasonably 
support interest-only borrowing of just over £15,000. BoS informed Mr Fs broker about its 
conclusions and asked what Mr F wanted to do. It didnt decline the application and Mr F had 
the option of changing it to take a lower amount on an interest-only basis. Mr F chose not to 
change his application and didnt proceed with it. 
I can understand that Mr F was disappointed with BoS assessment of his pension, but I 
dont consider BoS did anything wrong when it made that assessment and acted upon its 
findings. As such, I wont be asking BoS to do anything or compensate Mr F for the upset he 
experienced by not being able to buy the property he wanted.
Mr F has asked that the valuation fee be refunded as the application didnt go ahead. As 
BoS pointed out, the fee isnt refundable, and a valuation was done at an appropriate point in 
the assessment of his application. As such I cant require BoS to refund the valuation fee. 
That said, BoS said that when it received confirmation that the application wasnt 
progressing, it would consider whether to refund the valuation fee as a gesture of goodwill. It 
isnt clear whether this has been done, but if it has not, it would be appropriate for BoS to do 
so now.
BoS accepted my provisional decision. It also confirmed that it had considered refunding the 
valuation fee, but had decided that as the valuation had been completed it wouldnt be 
appropriate to do so. Mr F didnt accept my conclusions. He said that his broker had told him that the valuation 
would only be done after the mortgage was in place, as the application was considered 
non-standard. He confirmed that the fee hadnt been refunded to him. Mr M also said that he 
considered that as his mortgage had been agreed in 2009, he didnt have to accept the 
changes to the lending criteria in place after 2014. He thinks it is unfair that new criteria were 
being applied to him and he was being forced to take a full repayment mortgage alongside 
his pension (the premium of which increases each year) or he will have to stay in his existing 
home forever. Mr F highlighted that I hadnt commented on affordability of the new mortgage 
arrangement or how the FCAs treating customers fairly policies were applicable to the 
ongoing matter of his mortgage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly clarify that when Mr F applied for a new mortgage in 2021, he was applying for 
just that - a completely new mortgage. It was not a transfer of the existing mortgage to a 
different property. As such, BoS is required to assess the application to ensure that it is, 
among other things, affordable and is in a consumers best interests based on the regulatory 
framework in place at the time. The requirement to treat a customer fairly doesnt mean that 
a customer is entitled to whatever they request. Having a mortgage that is unaffordable, 
whether on a monthly basis or at the end of the term when it needs to be repaid, isnt 
considered to be in a consumers best interests. As a responsible lender, BoS was right to 
assess the proposed repayment vehicle to ensure that it would be able to pay the mortgage 
off at the end of the term. 
BoS determined that Mr Fs repayment vehicle wasnt sufficient to support as much of the 
mortgage as he wanted on an interest-only basis. It was entirely appropriate for BoS to 
complete that assessment and inform Mr F of the outcome. It didnt decline the application at 
this point nor did it say that he had to have the whole of the mortgage on a repayment basis. 
Rather it explained how much the pension would support and gave Mr F and his broker the 
opportunity to review the basis on which he wanted his mortgage. Mr F independently 
concluded that, while maintaining his pension premiums, he couldnt afford to have more of 
his mortgage on a repayment basis than hed applied for. In other words, Mr F decided the 
mortgage (ensuring that it was paid off at the end of the term) wasnt affordable. BoS cant 
be held responsible for that conclusion or Mr Fs decision not to progress with the mortgage 
and property purchase. 
BoS has reviewed the matter of the refund of the valuation fee and concluded that it 
shouldnt be refunded. As the valuation was undertaken, that isnt unreasonable, and Mr F 
would have been made aware at the time of the application the fee was not refundable. That 
said, it would be normal that a general assessment of the applicant would be undertaken 
before the valuation was done. As I said in my provisional decision, it appears that BoS 
completed that assessment and it had no concerns, at which point the valuation would 
reasonably be commissioned. I cant comment here on what Mr F was told by his broker, as 
BoS isnt responsible for that information.
I know that Mr F wont be happy with my conclusions, but I dont consider that BoS acted 
inappropriately when it assessed his mortgage application in the way it did. Nor do I think it 
treated him unfairly.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 
6 July 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman