DRN-2642377
The complaint
 Miss B and Mr R complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) hasnt dealt with
their claim for damage caused to their home by a storm fairly. 
What happened
 I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January. In summary, this is what the 
decision said:
In February 2020 Miss B and Mr R were told by a friend doing some work in their loft 
that one of the roof beams was split.
Fairmead took over three months to tell Miss B and Mr R that it wasnt going to meet 
the claim as it hadnt been shown conclusively that this was storm damage. It said it 
would pay Miss B and Mr R £200 to make up for the delay.
I said I intended to uphold the complaint. I thought that Miss B and Mr R had shown there 
was a valid reason for their claim as there had been winds of a high enough speed to fit 
Fairmeads description of storm in their policy.
I explained that if Fairmead wanted to rely on an exclusion in the policy to say it need not 
meet the claim, then the onus was on it to show the exclusion could be fairly relied on. I 
didnt think Fairmead had done enough to show that it wasnt storm damage. Its own 
structural engineer said high wind speeds were a potential cause of the damage, and it didnt 
look as though it was wear and tear, as the damage was new. In those circumstances I 
thought Fairmead should have either investigated further  or met the claim by paying for or 
carrying out the recommended repairs.
I concluded that as it would by now be too late to ascertain the true cause of damage it 
would be fair for Fairmead to meet the claim  to the extent that it should pay for the repairs 
recommended by its surveyor. I didnt think Fairmead need do more than that, as Miss B and 
Mr R hadnt made any arrangements to do the repairs or prevent the problem getting worse.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairmead says that it still doesnt think it need meet the claim. It says thats for two reasons. 
First, it says that the wind speeds werent high enough to damage a well maintained roof in 
the way this one was. Im not persuaded by that argument. The windspeeds were high 
enough to trigger the storm clause in the policy, so this a valid claim. And it remains that 
Fairmeads structural engineer suggested high wind could cause the damage, not Miss B 
and Mr R. Fairmead had an opportunity to revisit that report at the time the claim was made 
but didnt choose to do so.
Fairmead also says that the fact that similar damage was caused to the house next door 
suggests theres a latent fault in both properties. It says that even though the (different) 
surveyor who looked at that property also said high winds could have caused the damage. I 
havent seen any evidence to support this suggestion of pre-existing faults, so I dont give it 
much weight.
Neither of Fairmeads points persuade me I should change my provisional conclusions.
Miss R and Mr B havent made any comments that affect the decision. Theyve commented 
on the likely cost of repairs, but Ill cover that point below.
Neither party commented on the amount of compensation I recommended, so I see no 
reason to change this.
Putting things right
Miss R and Mr B say theyve been told the only way to repair the broken roof beam is to 
remove the whole roof, do the repairs and then replace the roof. They say this will cost about 
£20,000. I dont know how much the repairs will cost, but I see Fairmeads contractor has 
suggested between £3,000 and £8,000. Theres clearly a large difference here. As I said in 
my provisional decision, Fairmead is only responsible for the repairs suggested by the 
surveyor. But if the only way to achieve those repairs is as Miss R and Mr Bs builder 
suggests, then Fairmead will have to meet this cost. 
Both parties want to cash settle the claim. Normally when a customer asks for a cash 
settlement an insurer only need pay the amount it would have paid to do the work. Thats 
often less than a customer can get the same work done for. Miss R and Mr B say theyve 
lost faith in Fairmead, and I can understand this, given the way their claim was handled. So I 
dont think Fairmead can fairly settle the claim by estimating how much it might have paid to 
do the work  it will have to base the settlement on the cost to Miss R and Mr B. It would 
however be reasonable for Fairmead to ask for more than one quote for the work before 
agreeing payment.
Fairmead should also pay Miss R and Mr B £400 compensation. It can deduct from that any 
compensation its already paid. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I now require Fairmead Insurance Limited to 
settle the claim as described above and pay any outstanding compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman