DRN-3801355
The complaint
Mr M, a sole trader, complains about the decision of Hiscox Insurance Company Limited to 
decline his claim for business interruption relating to the first COVID-19 lockdown period 
starting in March 2020.
What happened
The following is intended merely as a brief summary. Mr M operates as a information 
technology and photography business. I understand this primarily relates to providing photo 
and website services to car retailers. His insured business premises are his residential 
address, although much of his work requires him to visit car dealerships, etc. 
Mr M held a commercial insurance policy with Hiscox. The policy renewed annually in 
September. In February 2021, he contacted Hiscox to register business interruption claims. 
The claims he registered were those relating to the second and third lockdown periods 
(starting in November 2020 and January 2021) that were introduced by the Government as a 
result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr M is unhappy with how these claims were handled, but 
the issues connected with these claims are now being considered separately by the 
Ombudsman Service. 
In the course of dealing with the above claims, Hiscox also registered a claim for Mr M 
relating to the first lockdown starting in March 2020. This claim relates to the policy Mr M 
held with Hiscox from September 2019 to September 2020. As this is a separate policy, I 
have considered the claim relating to this policy separately from those relating to the policy 
running from September 2020 onwards. 
Hiscox declined Mr Ms claim for the first lockdown. It said that Mr Ms policy provided cover 
where there was an:
inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public authority 
during the period of insurance following:

b. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an outbreak 
of which must be notified to the local authority
But that Mr M had not been unable to use the premises he had insured. Mr M was unhappy 
with this, and when Hiscox did not alter its stance he pursued his complaint with the 
Ombudsman Service. 
However, our Investigator considered that Hiscox had applied the terms of the policy 
appropriately and so did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. As he remains unsatisfied, his 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Mr M, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why
Mr M has made detailed submissions, all of which I have read. However, as an informal 
service, I am not going to respond to each of the points he has made  rather I am going to 
focus on what I consider to be the key issue; the decline of the claim. Additionally, as noted 
above, the current complaint is limited purely to looking at the claim for the first lockdown. 
When Mr M spoke to Hiscox in February 2021, he was specific that he was registering a 
claim for the second and third lockdowns. Mr M has a copy of the recording of this call, and 
at around eight minutes he confirms which periods he was registering a claim for. As such, 
any messaging he was given in this call around the validity of a claim would not apply to the 
claim for the first lockdown. I will though also note that it is the terms of the policy and the 
circumstances of the claim, rather than whatever might be said when a claim is being 
registered, that will generally determine if that claim is covered. 
The type of cover Mr M is looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There 
are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. 
For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others 
provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. 
Whether or not an interruption to business is covered by a policy will be determined by the 
nature of the risks covered and the circumstances of the claim. It is not enough that the 
business be interrupted  the cause of that interruption must be something that is covered. 
So, the starting point is to consider the specific policy Mr M took out.
I have considered the whole of this policy, and there are a number of clauses which might 
potentially provide cover for a claim similar to Mr Ms but do not in his circumstances. Whilst 
I have considered each of these, I will focus my decision on the clause referred to above as 
this has been the focus of the complaint. 
The clause is a composite one and requires each of the elements to have happened in order 
for a claim to be covered. There needs to have been the outbreak of a relevant disease, 
which has led to a public authority imposing restrictions, that have then led to an inability to 
use the insured premises. 
It isnt disputed that COVID-19 was a relevant disease for the purposes of the policy, nor that 
the Government is a public authority which imposed restrictions. However, the restrictions 
imposed were not those that meant Mr M was unable to use the insured premises. 
Mr Ms insured premises are those detailed on his policy schedule. These are his home 
address. It is the ability to use these for the business purpose carried out there, rather than 
for his residential purpose, that needs to have prevented. However, the premises of the 
customers Mr M may have normally visited are not Mr Ms insured premises. So, whilst I 
appreciate Mr M may not have been able to operate as he normally would, this was not due 
to any inability to use his insured premises. 
Mr M would have been able to use his insured premises, largely, as he normally would have. 
It is possible certain activities he normally carries out (potentially including having customers 
visit him if this is part of his normal operation) may have been made more difficult. But it is 
an inability, rather than a hindrance, of use of the insured premises that is required. The fact 
that Mr Ms customers were not operating, and so he likely suffered a loss of business as a 
result, is not something the policy provides cover for in the circumstances. I also note Mr Ms own health concerns and that he was advised by the Government to 
shield. But this would have been a restriction that was imposed him personally, rather than 
on his business. And, regardless, this shielding would not have meant Mr M was unable to 
use his premises.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Hiscox should have met Mr Ms claim relating to the first lockdown. I know 
this decision will be disappointing for Mr M, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough 
explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman