DRN-3669218
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C have complained that Elderbridge Limited didnt notify them about missed 
payments on their mortgage between 2018 and 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month, the findings of which said:
Mrs C has said that shed agreed with Mr C that he would make the payments to this 
secured loan, but the evidence we have doesnt show that Elderbridge was aware of that. 
Having reviewed the contact notes it is recorded that Mrs C and Mr C split up in 2012, 
and that Mrs C was paying this loan from a bank account in her sole name. The notes 
indicate that in September 2017 Mrs C called to set up a new direct debit as she had a 
new bank account.
The letter from Mrs C to Elderbridge in February 2018 was in response to a letter it sent 
her stating the direct debit had been cancelled and the account was in arrears of over 
£15,000. 
In that letter Mrs C said that she enclosed a completed direct debit mandate and asked 
for a reduced payment arrangement for six months due to her ill health. Shed completed 
a new direct debit mandate with the payments to be taken from an account in her sole 
name. 
Theres nothing after that to indicate Elderbridge was made aware that Mr C would be 
paying rather than Mrs C, and Mrs Cs letter in February 2018 said she would still be 
paying (albeit she wanted a reduced payment arrangement).
Elderbridge has acknowledged it missed an opportunity at that time when it didnt 
respond to Mrs Cs letter and for that it has said it will put the account on a 0% interest 
rate, backdated to February 2018. Having considered everything I think that is a fair and 
reasonable offer for Elderbridge to have made. It should have done more in February 
2018, and by removing the interest charged since then I think it has done enough to put 
that failing right.
That leaves the payment of compensation that our investigator recommended. Ive 
considered this issue very carefully but Im not persuaded any compensation is due. Ill 
explain.
Mrs C has said that she wasnt told by Elderbridge that no payments were being made, 
but she would have been aware that shed asked for a new direct debit to be set up and 
reduced payments of £125 a month to be collected from her sole-named bank account. 
She also would have been aware those payments hadnt been collected from her bank 
account.
I agree that Elderbridge could have done more to notify Mrs C and Mr C of the lack of 
payments over the years, but equally Im satisfied Mrs C and/or Mr C  and I must keep in 
mind this is a complaint that has been brought by both of them jointly  would have been 
aware that payments hadnt been made.
Most of the contact over the years had been with Mrs C, and the last contact before the 
payments ceased was Mrs C wanting to set up a direct debit from her sole-named bank 
account, indicating she was intending to make the payments going forward.
At the time the payments ceased in February 2018 the account had already been in 
arrears for six years, with the arrears balance standing at around £15,700. Elderbridge 
has said it will remove all the interest charged since February 2018 and having 
considered everything very carefully Im satisfied that offer goes far enough and that no 
further payment of compensation is due.
Both sides confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and had no further submissions to 
make. Having considered the whole file afresh I see no reason to depart from the findings in 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, but Im satisfied the offer made by Elderbridge Limited to move this 
secured loan to a 0% interest rate (backdated to February 2018) is fair and reasonable. I 
make no further order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman