DRN-4308161
The complaint
This complaint is about a series of mortgage accounts Mr M holds with UCB Home Loans 
Corporation Ltd (UCB). There are two broad components to the complaint; briefly: 
that for about ten years prior to 2018, UCB failed to inform Mr M he might be eligible for 
access to new rates on his mortgages, and on occasions told him no alternative rates 
were available. This left him paying rates that he generally considered too high and not 
in line with those from competitors (the 2018 complaint); and
during the same ten-year period, the rates UCB charged were actually higher than the 
mortgage contracts allowed it to charge (the 2020 complaint).
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr M and UCB; theyve been set 
out in correspondence between both parties. Im also aware that the investigator issued a 
detailed response to the complaint which has been shared with all parties, and so I dont 
need to repeat all of the details here. 
Instead, Ill provide a brief summary of the key points, in my own words and then focus on 
the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. 
Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Both mortgages were taken out before mortgage regulation was introduced in October 2004. 
Both have been the subject of further advances, and so there are six sub-accounts in all 
across the two mortgages. Both mortgages are secured on properties that are not Mr Ms 
main residence. Each sub-account had interest rate products attached to it from time to time, 
but on varying dates (the most recent being in 2011) each reverted to a standard variable 
rate (SVR) on which they remained until 2018. Following the 2018 complaint, UCB has 
allowed Mr M access to new interest rate products. 
The thrust of Mr Ms complaint is about what happened during the period he was being 
charged interest at SVR. He believes firstly that he was unfairly denied access to better 
rates, and secondly that the variable rate(s) UCB charged were higher than the mortgage 
contracts allowed.
In May 2022, I issued a jurisdiction decision which explained why we could only consider the 
2020 complaint  i.e. whether the rates UCB charged were actually higher than the 
mortgage contracts allowed it to charge  and that our remit to do so, was confined to 
interest-charging events since 4 July 2014. 
There was another proviso to this, which was that if we found that an interest-charging event 
that occurred before 4 July 2014 contributed to an interest-charging event rate after that date 
that was not permitted under the contract, and therefore unfair, our remit allowed us to 
consider the potential impact of the earlier interest-charging event on UCBs treatment of 
Mr M from 4 July 2014 onwards.
The case was then looked into by one of our investigators, who wasnt persuaded UCB had 
treated Mr M unfairly. Mr M has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At a general level, interest variation clauses such as those that applied to Mr Ms mortgages 
have a legitimate purpose and are common in financial services consumer contracts, 
particularly those of long or indeterminate duration, such as mortgage agreements. 
A fair variation term can benefit both consumers and lenders, by providing flexibility and a 
wider choice to consumers and enabling firms to provide competitively priced products, 
knowing they can vary the interest rates they charge to reflect changes in circumstances, 
particularly in their own cost of funding. A reversion rate also permits lenders to provide for 
future changes that justify increases in the rate, and a lenders own costs of funds are by 
nature difficult to foresee.
The time period Im looking at (2014 to 2018) followed on from a time of significant change in 
the wider market as a result of the financial crisis in 2008/09. This had impacted on the 
funding costs of businesses and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest 
rates charged across the market at the time. 
Im also mindful that the FCA has noted the adverse impact the financial crisis had on 
lenders costs during that period, and that it hasnt seen that SVR variation terms have 
generally been relied on unfairly to cause widespread detriment to consumers (see for 
example the May 2018 Guidance Consultation GC18/2 Fairness of Variation terms in 
financial services consumer contracts under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 paragraphs 2.8 
to 2.10).
UCB has provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with detailed information about the 
reasons why it varied its SVR in the way that it did. The information UCB has given us is 
commercially sensitive, so can be treated as confidential. The information has been 
reviewed in line with UCBs mortgage documentation, relevant law and regulations. 
Ive considered whether UCB acted fairly overall. Having done so, Im satisfied UCB varied 
the SVR in line with the mortgage terms and conditions and that UCB exercised those terms 
fairly. This means that Im satisfied UCB has not overcharged interest on Mr Ms mortgage 
accounts since 4 July 2014. 
Whilst the base rate had reduced significantly during this period, the costs to lenders of 
funding their businesses changed, as did their prudential requirements. These are made up 
of several factors that are not directly linked to base rate. There was a substantial increase 
in risk to all lenders during that period, and that led to them having to mitigate that risk in different ways. So there are objectively justifiable reasons why UCB did not reduce the 
applicable rate at the same level as the reduction in Bank of England base rate. 
Overall I am not persuaded there is any basis to say that the variations UCB made to its 
SVR resulted in Mr M being charged an unfairly high rate of interest on his mortgages during 
the period I can consider. Nor does the evidence lead me to conclude that the interest rate 
applied during that period was unfair for any other reason. 
Lastly, there was no early repayment charge applicable to Mr Ms mortgage accounts at the 
various points they reverted to SVR. So, if UCB had exercised its rights as set by the 
variation terms, and Mr M was unhappy with the decisions it made, he was free under the 
contract to seek a re-mortgage with another lender. In saying that, I am aware that Mr Ms 
properties were the subject of negative equity, which will have impacted on his ability to 
re-mortgage to another lender. But that was not a barrier imposed by UCB.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman