DRN-2879670
The complaint
Mr H has complained HSBC UK Bank plc wont refund money for two payments he didnt 
authorise.
What happened
On 21 April 2020 Mr H got a call from HSBC asking him whether hed just made a payment 
of £2,000. Aware that this call could just as easily come from a fraudster, Mr H said he 
wasnt sure. He then went to check his account online. As he could see two payments of 
£600 and £4,000 had been made that hed not authorised, he quickly called HSBC. As hed 
been unsure about the payment for £2,000 on the earlier call, theyd stopped this payment. 
They said theyd look into the other two and get back to him.
The following day HSBC told Mr H they wouldnt be refunding him. His physical secure key 
was used to set up two new payees and make three payments (even though HSBC had 
blocked the last payment). Mr H wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint 
to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided by HSBC. This showed the same device for 
all logons and transactions on 21 April 2020 used the same IP address as Mr Hs previous 
online use. This coupled with the use of the physical secure key meant she felt only Mr H 
could have made these transactions. She told him she wasnt going to ask HSBC to refund 
him.
Mr H strenuously denied hed made these transactions. He believed his account must have 
been hacked and had provided evidence that this had happened to others. He specifically 
questioned the device print which he couldnt see had occurred before so felt this must have 
been a device being used elsewhere. He was also concerned that HSBCs initial 
investigation only amounted to a tickbox exercise and never properly considered alternatives 
to him having authorised the payments.
Mr Hs complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than Mr H and HSBC. 
Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all 
the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer was grossly negligent in looking after their card and PIN or other 
security information or keys  but nothing thats had a marked impact on the decision Im 
making here. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones 
fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund them.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make without undue delay, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by HSBC and Mr H. 
Ive also noted the detail in our investigators view of 1 December 2020. I wont be repeating 
all that was stated there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which drive the decision Im 
making.
Firstly the evidence HSBC has provided has shown a number of things. These include 
details of the device print, the IP address and network provider for the transactions on 
21 April (including Mr Hs own logon to check the status of his account). They have also 
confirmed that Mr Hs secure key  which he keeps in a drawer in his room  was used to 
make all the disputed transactions.  
I appreciate Mr H finds this evidence to be unconvincing. I do not.  
This shows the same device print was used all day for all of the logons, transfer of funds 
from Mr Hs savings account, set up of new beneficiaries and the making of three payments. 
The device print is identical whether it was the supposed fraudsters accessing Mr Hs 
account or Mr H himself checking the status of his account before calling HSBC back that 
afternoon.
I think weve led Mr H down a bit of a rabbit hole with information about the device print. This 
doesnt mean that a different device is used every time the device print changes. Otherwise 
this would indicate that genuine logons on 17 March, 6 and 17 April all took place on 
different devices. This isnt the case. As Mr H very clearly has stated he uses his laptop for 
his online banking. The device print may change but the one thing I am sure of is that if it 
stays the same  as it did throughout 21 April  then that presents pretty compelling 
evidence that the same device was used.
This is why our investigator  and I similarly  was so sure that Mr H must have made the 
transactions himself as only one device was used for all logons on 21 April.Im very aware that Mr H is adamant he didnt make these transactions. He has pointed out it 
was out of character of his normal account usage. I dont disagree. He has also wondered 
why anyone would be logging on so many times within such a short period. I agree thats not 
completely usual for him either.  
But I think it is what Id expect to see when someone is awaiting some money to come into 
the account at the time payments are being made. I say this because during our 
investigation we discovered where the initial payments of £600 and £4,000 went. The 
beneficiary bank told us of similar payments to the same account that were also disputed. 
What has been cited is that individuals were scammed believing they were making payments 
for investment. I suspect therefore that whoever was making these payments  and I do 
think that was Mr H  was checking to see what credits he was getting back. This is more 
than likely why Mr H was more than happy HSBC blocked the latter transaction.
I appreciate Mr H has vehemently denied this. Partly I suspect as hes ashamed of being 
caught in a scam and spending some of his savings.  
I know Mr H has been disturbed by what he sees as HSBCs lacklustre investigation into 
what happened. I think the reason HSBC was able to respond so quickly is that Mr Hs own 
secure key was used. One of the reasons HSBC use this particular type of two-factor 
authentication for account use is that the same device  allied to a specific customer  has 
to be used for setting up new beneficiaries and payments. I cant explain how Mr Hs key 
which he says remains in his drawer could have been used unless it was him. I can see why 
Mr H is sceptical about some of HSBCs evidence. I know he was given incorrect information 
from them initially. He wasnt getting texts about setting up beneficiaries as this is managed 
through the secure key with PINs being used and six digit codes being provided. Im satisfied 
this must all have happened for the payments to be made.
Mr H has also questioned the IP address evidence. Hes right that this can be spoofed but Id 
have to wonder why an unknown fraudster would bother spoofing an IP address Mr H had 
used before. Once all the funds from Mr Hs account had been taken, no unknown fraudster 
would care what the IP address was or why as theyd got the money and would be away.
Ive also taken into account Mr Hs remonstrations that this wasnt him. I have wondered why 
hed get so many allies to support his complaint if hed done this himself. I have no specific 
answer but on balance I think hes desperate to put things right after making such a serious 
and expensive mistake.
Overall I believe the evidence shows that its most likely Mr H made the transactions himself. 
Therefore it wouldnt be fair to ask HSBC to do anything further. I know Mr H has raised a 
number of questions. Some of which I hope Ive answered above. However this is a final 
decision and brings an end to our services involvement in his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Hs complaint against HSBC 
UK Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman