DRN-3460152
The complaint
Miss Cs complaint is about a mortgage she took out in 2003 with National Westminster 
Bank Plc trading as Ulster Bank. Miss C says that her mortgage was on a lifetime tracker 
rate, but that in 2009 she was forced into taking a fixed rate product. Miss C believes the 
fixed rate product was mis-sold.
Miss C also says that there was a review by the regulator in relation to interest rates applied 
to tracker mortgages that had been taken out with Ulster Bank between 2001 and 2008, with 
impacted customers contacted from March 2019 onwards. Miss C believes that her 
mortgage should have been included as part of this interest rate review, but the bank failed 
to contact her about it. As a result, Miss C believes she has been charged an incorrect rate 
of interest on her mortgage. Miss C would like Ulster Bank to put this right for her.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include in this decision any 
evidence that might lead Miss C to be identified.
Due to the passage of time, and migration of accounts to new computer systems within the 
bank, not all documentation from the start of the mortgage is available. There is nothing 
untoward about this. However, where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
have to reach my decision about the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  
in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Briefly, in December 2003 Miss C was offered a mortgage by Ulster Bank. She borrowed 
£42,300 over a term of 20 years.  The mortgage was at a variable rate of interest, initially 
4.19%, but the interest rate was discounted by 1.50% until 30 November 2005. If the 
mortgage was redeemed before that date, an early repayment charge would apply. The 
mortgage completed in early 2004. The mortgage was unregulated, as regulation of 
residential mortgages did not come into effect until 31 October 2004.
It appears Miss C took out a new product after her initial discounted interest rate expired in 
November 2005 because in January 2008 Ulster Bank wrote to her to let her know that her 
product had expired. In February 2008 Miss C took out a new product, the banks two-year 
fee free discounted rate product, giving a discount of 1.50% off Standard Variable Rate 
(SVR), at that time 7.62%. After applying the discount, the rate fell to 6.12%.
As interest rates fell from 2008 onwards, Ulster Bank reduced its SVR, which then resulted 
in a reduction in the interest rate applied to Miss Cs mortgage product. At the end of the 
two-year period, the discount ended and the mortgage reverted to SVR.
On 24 February 2009 the bank wrote to Miss C explaining that, as a result of a reduction in 
the Bank of England Base Rate, SVR had reduced to 4.00%. The letter went on to explain 
that, as Miss Cs mortgage was linked to SVR, her new rate was 2.50% (which is the 
discounted rate Miss C had applied for a year earlier). 
In 2020 Miss C complained to Ulster Bank. She said that in 2008 or 2009 shed been forced 
off a tracker rate onto a fixed rate product. As a result Miss C believed she had lost out 
financially and that the fixed rate product had been mis-sold. That was because shed 
learned in 2019 about a government-ordered review of Ulster Bank tracker rate mortgages 
taken out between 2001 and 2015. Miss C said the bank had told her that her account didnt 
form part of any review, but Miss C disagreed. She said that she believed she had had a 
lifetime tracker mortgage but because she was forced into taking a fixed rate product, shed 
paid more interest than she should have.
Ulster Bank didnt uphold the complaint, and said, in any event, that it thought Miss C had 
left it too late to complain. Miss C brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Initially the bank didnt consent to us looking at it, but later agreed we could 
consider the complaint.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He found no evidence that Miss C was ever on a tracker rate. Furthermore, the 
review to which Miss C had referred affected only Ulster Bank mortgages that had been 
taken out in the Republic of Ireland (ROI).
Miss C disagreed with the investigators findings. She asked for a review of her complaint. 
Miss C maintains that her original mortgage had been a lifetime tracker, that she was forced 
into taking another product, and that, as a result shes been charged far more interest than 
she should have paid. Miss C also insists that the review ordered by the ROI government 
applies to her, notwithstanding that her mortgage was taken out in Northern Ireland and 
secured on a property in Northern Ireland.
Miss C sent in some further documentation in support of her contention that shed been 
overcharged on the mortgage, but this was illegible. Although Miss C was asked to re-send 
it, she hasnt done so, and so I have reviewed the complaint on the basis of the available 
evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is quite a simple one, although it has been over-complicated by a focus on 
issues that arent relevant to what actually happened.The original 2003 mortgage offer is for a variable rate mortgage at SVR, discounted for two 
years by 1.50%. The crux of this complaint is that Miss C says that her original mortgage 
was on a lifetime tracker interest rate that tracked Bank of England Base Rate and that she 
was forced in 2008/2009 to switch this onto a fixed rate of interest.
But Im satisfied Miss C wasnt on a lifetime tracker mortgage, either when she first took out 
the mortgage or at any time thereafter. The product Miss C took out in 2009 was another 
discounted rate of 1.50% below SVR for two years. 
Ive reviewed the product Ulster Bank had available at the time. It did offer tracker 
mortgages, but that isnt the product Miss C selected. She chose the two-year fee free 
1.50% discounted rate, which is a variable rate mortgage, not a tracker  or a fixed rate.
Given this, Im not persuaded by Miss Cs argument that she was forced in 2008/2009 to 
take out a fixed rate mortgage and lost out on a lifetime tracker mortgage.
The review to which Miss C refers was ordered by the ROI government, through the Central 
Bank of Ireland. It related only to tracker mortgages taken out in the ROI, not Northern 
Ireland. Therefore, even if Miss C had had a tracker mortgage (which she did not), this 
review would not have applied to her. And even if the review had applied (which, as I have 
explained, it did not), then it would be a matter for the Financial Ombudsman in the ROI, not 
our service, to consider a complaint about any redress Miss C believes might be due to her.
If Miss C still believes she has been overcharged by Ulster Bank, it is always open to her to 
have the account examined by a professional auditor. This would need to be at her own 
expense, but if the audit reveals errors on the part of Ulster Bank that were to Miss Cs 
detriment, then she could use the audit as the basis of a new complaint and claim any 
reasonable cost of obtaining it as part of the redress. But we wont audit the account for 
Miss C; thats not our function.
Overall, the evidence doesnt persuade me that Miss C was ever on a lifetime tracker 
product, or that she was forced to take out a fixed rate product. Im also satisfied that the 
tracker review conducted in the ROI doesnt affect Miss Cs mortgage. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman