DRN-3197114
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Society of Lloyds (SOL) unfairly declined part of her claim under 
a tenanted property policy.
  
What happened
Miss B rented out a property to tenants. After she evicted the tenants, Miss B found a range 
of damage to the property. So, she contacted SOL to make a claim. SOL sent a loss adjuster 
to assess the damage. Following this, SOL accepted that some of the damage was covered 
by the policy. It agreed to remove contents abandoned by the tenants, replace a missing 
kitchen unit and door and to replace the locks. However, it wouldnt cover the majority of the 
damage as it said it was due to wear and tear or gradual deterioration.
Miss B complained to SOL. She said a lot more of the damage should have been covered as 
part of the claim and that she should also be covered for loss of rent. Miss B also said the 
loss adjuster had been racist to her.
When SOL replied to the complaint it said it had settled the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy, that loss of rent wasnt payable as the property wasnt uninhabitable 
and that it was unable to say what had happened when Miss B dealt with the loss adjuster.
Miss B complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said, 
based on the expert reports, SOL had acted reasonably by covering the damage it did and 
declining the rest as wear and tear. It was also reasonable to decline the claim for loss of 
rent because there was no evidence to show the property was uninhabitable. He said he had 
no reason to doubt what Miss B had said about the loss adjuster but wasnt able to say for 
sure what happened. However, he said the loss adjuster had acted fairly when assessing the 
claim.
As Miss B didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 19 October 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. In summary, I said:
I thought it was reasonable for SOL to decide that the majority of the damage wasnt 
covered by the policy because it was due to wear and tear or happened gradually, rather 
than malicious damage.
SOL should potentially consider the damage to the sofa, but as Miss B didnt seem to 
have previously presented this damage to SOL, it was for Miss B to decide if she now 
wished to do so and for SOL to assess whether it would be a new claim.
Given that I thought it was reasonable for SOL to decide the damage presented wasnt 
malicious damage, I also thought it was reasonable for SOL to decline the claim for loss 
of rent.
There was no evidence that SOL had investigated the racism allegation, despite saying 
Miss B had raised serious allegations. I said I was concerned that SOL would accept 
that Miss B had made a serious allegation, but then seemed to take no steps to 
investigate further. SOL had also said to this service that it wasnt aware of the more 
specific details of what Miss B said happened. I said this was because SOL didnt ask 
Miss B.
I remained concerned that SOL hadnt investigated the allegations and asked whether it 
would do so. It passed Miss Bs more detailed concerns to the loss adjuster for 
response.
The loss adjuster described what happened during the visit and for each of he more 
specific allegations made by Miss B said that this wasnt what had happened. The loss 
adjuster said they hadnt acted in the way described or done anything other than deal 
with the claim.
My provisional decision provided Miss B with the response from the loss adjuster to give 
her the opportunity to see this and comment if she wished to do so.
I said I intended to say SOL should pay £350 compensation because I didnt think SOL 
investigated Miss Bs racism complaint or made any attempt to find out the details of her 
allegation.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 23 November 2021.
Miss B said:
She didnt understand how SOL could say the damage to her property was wear and 
tear. Miss Bs tenants had actively thrown her down the stairs and threatened her. This 
had been reported to the police.
The property had been in excellent condition before these tenants.
The policy covered malicious damage and the claim should be reconsidered.
She had evidence of the work carried out to deal with the damage.
SOL said:
It was pleased to see it had been supported in terms of the claim.
A conversation had taken place when the complaint was escalated to SOL. No details 
were provided other than Miss B saying the loss adjuster had been racist towards her 
and that she wanted this to go on record. Miss B had also been invited to provide 
additional evidence and nothing further was received.
SOLs investigation focussed on the claim as this was what Miss B was primarily 
unhappy with. The investigation had also included investigation into the loss adjusters 
communications and contact with the insured, which could be evidenced. No such issues 
were identified.
Internal investigations/ disciplinaries of staff members, if required, are business actions/ 
decision and do not form part of SOLs remit to enforce.
Although SOL provided additional comments from the loss adjuster following my queries, 
this didnt change the outcome in any way and SOL maintained that it couldnt comment 
on conversations it wasnt party to. It had no evidence to support Miss Bs allegations.
The loss adjuster also raised a valid question in terms of why Miss B didnt immediately 
raise her concerns following the visit. The allegations were raised after elements of the 
claim were declined. Miss B also didnt provide detailed comments until the complaint 
was with this service.
SOL said the claim itself hadnt been investigated or handled any differently to that of 
any other claim.
SOL didnt think compensation was appropriate.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part and for the reasons previously 
given. Ive considered all of the comments provided by both parties even if I dont comment 
on it here, as Ive focussed on what I think are the key points in order to make a fair and 
reasonable decision.
Miss B has said she doesnt understand why SOL wont deal with her claim for malicious 
damage. As I explained in my provisional decision, the policy covered one-off insured 
events, rather than wider issues such as a failure by the tenants to keep the property in good 
condition. Although Miss B has given details of an incident involving her tenants that was 
reported to the police, this doesnt provide me with evidence about the specific damage that 
formed part of the claim. Im still not persuaded that SOL needs to deal with the damage 
claimed for.
In terms of SOLs comments, I took into account all of the information provided in the 
business file and when I asked SOL to consider the comments provided by Miss B about the 
loss adjuster. As part of that, I was aware of the conversation that took place with SOL. In 
response to my provisional decision, SOL said:
no details were provided other than the insured expressing that the Loss Adjuster (LA) was 
racist towards her and that she wanted this to go on the record.
In SOLs call note of that conversation, it said:
PH [policyholder] also expressed that the Loss Adjuster was racist towards her. PH 
repeated this several times and wanted this to go on record.
So, the call note didnt describe what was said or whether any questions were asked about 
the racism allegations in order to gain a more detailed understanding of what happened.
SOL has also said it invited Miss B to provide further comments. Ive re-read the letter SOL 
sent to Miss B saying it was investigating the complaint. The letter didnt actually describe 
what the complaint was and ended by saying:
Whilst I should have all the information I need, if there is anything further you may have that 
you feel would be of use then I would be grateful if you could forward this to me either by 
post or email.
So, I think its difficult to conclude that it was clear what SOL was investigating or that it 
might require more information on the racism allegation. Although SOL has repeated the 
point made more recently by the loss adjuster, questioning why the complaint wasnt made 
immediately following the visit, this is the sort of question SOL could have looked at as part 
of it considering the racism allegation. If SOL thought this was a significant point to consider 
and was likely to help decide if the allegation was likely to be upheld or not then it should 
have considered this as part of its investigation. If it didnt do so, then I think this further 
highlights that it didnt properly investigate the racism allegation.
So, having considered again both what I said in my provisional decision and the 
compensation I intended to say SOL should pay, I remain of the view that SOL didnt 
properly investigate the racism allegation and that, as a result, it should pay £350 
compensation.
  
Putting things rightSOL must pay Miss B £350 compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part. I require Society of Lloyds to pay Miss B £350 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman