DRN-4294250
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) handled a claim 
under his Home Emergency policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here.
Mr D tells us that there were issues during a routine service of his boiler in April 2022 
causing the boiler to become flooded with water.
The next day another engineer advised new parts were needed and these were fitted 
a few days later.
Mr D says the boiler periodically malfunctioned over the following months and there 
was frequently no hot water.
Mr D says he turned on the heating around September or October 2022 and he 
continued to experience problems, so he contacted British Gas in October 2022.
British Gas examined the boiler and recommended a power flush.
Mr D didnt think a power flush would resolve the issue as the issues only arose 
following the service and repairs to the boiler.
Mr D complained to British Gas about the service hes received and feels it should 
install a new boiler as he says they destroyed the boiler that had been covered since 
it was new 15 years ago.
Mr D tells us he reluctantly replaced the boiler as British Gas hadnt fixed the 
problem.
British Gas say an engineer visited in August 2022 and identified poor circulation and 
recommended the system have a power flush, but Mr D declined this. It offered Mr D 
£70 as a good will gesture for the inconvenience of the multiple visits.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt British Gas shouldve done more 
to ensure the claim progressed smoothly but the £70 it had offered Mr D was 
reasonable. He noted expert opinion that a power flush couldve resolved the issues, 
and even if it didnt the boiler was still repairable. So he didnt think it was fair to ask 
British Gas to pay for, or contribute towards the cost of a replacement boiler.
Mr D remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and largely for the same 
reasons.
Whilst I have some sympathy for Mr D and the inconvenience brought about by British Gas 
not being able to satisfactorily repair his boiler in April 2022 I have to decide this case based 
on the available evidence.
There is no dispute British Gas advised that a power flush was required, and no dispute that 
Mr D declined to allow British Gas to carry this out. There is a disagreement as to whether a 
power flush, which Mr D wouldve had to have paid for, wouldve fixed the issue with the 
boiler. Ive considered what Mr D has said and what the technical team at British gas have 
said. On balance, Im more persuaded by the evidence British Gas have provided, and Ive 
not seen any evidence that contradicts what British Gas has said.
I also note that British Gas wouldve attempted further repairs had the power flush not fixed 
the issues with the boiler. But it didnt have an opportunity to carry out the power flush or any 
repairs still required. And having been unable to carry out the remedies its engineers 
recommended its not fair and reasonable to expect British Gas to pay for a new boiler.
Mr D refers to the terms and conditions of his contract with British Gas and says it states if 
they cannot fix a problem with the boiler or a component they will fix it. Ive looked at the 
insurance section of the terms and conditions and under Whats included it says:
A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair it and: 
 its less than seven years old; or 
 its between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been continuously covered 
by us under either a warranty or HomeCare product; or 
 it caught fire or exploded, providing you gave us access to carry out your annual 
service within every period of agreement 
 customers need to contact us if a third party has deemed a replacement is necessary 
before they replace it. We require the opportunity to assess and determine if a repair can 
be made before a replacement or a contribution to a replacement is provided
So even if I was persuaded by evidence that a power flush wasnt necessary. And British 
Gas had been unable to repair the boiler a replacement wouldnt have been covered by the 
policy as Mr D tells us it was 15 years old.
In the circumstances of this case Im satisfied British Gas have acted reasonably and its 
offer of compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman