DRN-3036899
The complaint
Mr B complains about U K Insurance Limited (UKI)s handling of his Home Emergency claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Home Emergency policies are typically designed to address immediate problems  
not to serve as long term fixes or maintenance to a wider issue
I can see from the information, which includes photos and videos provided by Mr B, 
that water was dripping through the area surrounding the light - but I havent seen 
anything that persuades me this occurred as a result of work carried out by UKI. On 
each occasion when UKIs contractors visited Mr Bs home they restored flow  
which was the immediate issue. Although an additional issue was later identified it 
wasnt covered under the Home Emergency policy
Mr B says UKI previously agreed during a phone call to reimburse costs he incurred 
from hiring an electrician for the area affected by the leak. But Mr B has not provided 
anything to show he incurred these costs, such as a receipts, invoices or reports. Ive 
also not seen or heard anything in the conversations Mr B had with UKI that 
persuades me it agreed to reimburse these costs. So, I wont be directing it to do so.
In claims such as this its reasonable some inconvenience would be experienced due 
to investigations being required. And I can see in this case there has been more than 
one cause highlighted that has contributed to the issues Mr B experienced
However I can see there have been some avoidable delays and inconvenience 
caused to Mr B, particularly in the period where the toilet was detached and Mr B 
was told by UKIs contractors not to use the bathrooms  which I can appreciate must 
have been very difficult for him and his family 
UKI have acknowledged it could have handled Mr Bs claim better and have offered 
Mr B a total of £400 compensation. In the circumstances I think this fairly reflects the 
inconvenience Mr B has been caused, so I wont be asking UKI to increase this
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman