DRN-3963835
The complaint
Mr B complains that he couldnt make a payment to Creation Financial Services Limited 
trading as Creation (Creation) to repay monies owed to his credit card. 
What happened
In October 2022, Mr B says he attempted to make a payment to his Creation credit card 
account online. He says he makes payments this way every month and hasnt previously 
missed a payment. 
When he tried to make a payment using Creations portal (OAM), he kept getting an error 
message and wasnt able to make the payment in time for his payment due date. Mr B also 
says he tried to contact Creation over the phone to make a payment too, but he wasnt able 
to use the IVR system, and Creations staff no longer take payments over the phone. 
Essentially, Mr B says because of all of this, he is now behind with his repayments, and he 
now cant afford to bring his account up to date.  He says he has been receiving threatening 
letters from Creation and he can now no longer use the online system to make a payment 
because his account has been suspended.
Creation responded to Mr B to say it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It explained that 
it had contacted its IT department who had confirmed there hadnt been any reported 
problems with making payments either online or using the IVR system. It also explained that 
the screenshot Mr B had sent it to evidence that he was unable to make a payment, shows 
that he was using a wrong portal to make the payment. Creation explained that Mr Bs 
payment was due on 21 October 2022, and because this wasnt received in time, it had 
charged him a £12 late fee, which it said it had refunded as a gesture of goodwill. Creations 
response also provided Mr B with different ways he could make a payment to it, which 
included Direct Debit, online, by post, by bank transfer or by telephone.
Mr B remained unhappy with Creations response and said he continued to not be able to 
make repayments to the account in the way he wanted. Because of this, the Investigator 
also looked into the matter for Mr B. The Investigator said he had seen persuasive evidence 
to suggest that Mr B was using the wrong online portal to make a payment  which is why 
his payment attempts had been unsuccessful and the Investigator didnt think that the 
website was down as Mr B had suggested. The Investigator also found that Creation had 
explained other ways of making repayments and offered assistance to help him make a 
payment over the phone if this was needed. So, he didnt think that Creation had done 
anything wrong. Because of this, he didnt think it was unfair of Creation to attempt to 
recover the funds owed by Mr B. However, he thought that the parties should come to a 
payment arrangement for the outstanding balance. 
Mr B didnt agree with the Investigators view. He felt that he had sent sufficient evidence to 
prove that he couldnt make a payment online. He also explained that he couldnt use the 
IVR system either because it didnt recognise his card details. He has reiterated that 
Creation have continued to send him threatening letters, its customer service team are rude 
and Creation have ignored his emails. Mr B says he doesnt want to pay the arrears on the 
account because these exist because of a fault with Creations website and its IVR.
Because Mr B didnt agree with the Investigators view the complaint has been passed to me 
to review and make a decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the evidence available to me, I wont be upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr B, as I am aware how strongly 
he feels about the matter, however, I will explain my reasons for this below. 
Id like to thank Mr B for providing the detail he has in response to our Investigators view. I 
have read and taken into account everything that both parties have submitted, however, my 
findings will only address matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint. So, I 
wont address every point that has been raised. I trust this wont be taken as a discourtesy, 
but this reflects the informal nature of our service. And to be clear, I consider the crux of this 
complaint to be about Mr B not being able to make a payment to Creation online or by using 
the IVR system. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the evidence Mr B has provided me with to show that there was an 
error when he tried to make the payment online. The screen shot hes sent clearly shows 
that there was an error in processing the payment. So, I now need to decide if this error was 
as a result of something Creation has done wrong. 
Looking closely at the screen shot provided by Mr B, I can see in the top left-hand corner of 
the page, the this says Finance Personal  some of the other writing has been cut out of 
the screenshot, but nevertheless, I think what I have seen is still helpful in understanding 
what has happened here. 
It appears that the portal Mr B was using to make the payment to his Creation credit card 
account was the wrong portal. The portal he was using seems to relate to a different type of 
account, which is likely why Mr B couldnt make the payment through this portal. The portal 
he tried to make the payment through wasnt for Creation credit card accounts. Mr B hasnt 
provided any further screenshots of a payment error using the correct portal, and so I think it 
is likely the payment issue here was down to Mr B accessing the wrong portal and not 
something Creation has done wrong. I can see Creation explained this to Mr B in its final 
response to him, and I havent seen any evidence of a payment error using the correct 
portal. And so, I cant fairly say that Creation has done anything wrong here. 
Moving onto the problems Mr B faced in using the IVR system to make a payment. It 
appears that initially there was some confusion over what account number Mr B should 
have been inputting into the system. Creation confirmed that the account number was the 
long credit card number. Mr B explained that the system wasnt identifying this number and 
so he couldnt make a payment. I can see though that later Mr B was able to use the IVR to 
make a payment, however he says he couldnt afford to make a payment by this point 
because the arrears meant the minimum repayment was too high for him to afford. So, it 
appears that the IVR system was at least working at one point. I can see that Creation 
offered to talk Mr B through making a payment using the IVR, however, Mr B didnt contact 
Creation to do this. Since the Investigator has looked into matters, it appears that Creation has resolved the IVR 
problems Mr B was having. Creation have said that Mr B was using an old supplementary 
card (with a different card number) to make the repayments  which is why its system wasnt 
recognising the account/card number. I dont think it would be fair for me to find that Creation 
did something wrong here  when Mr B inputted the wrong card number. I can see that the 
correspondence Creation has had with Mr B, and the statements Mr B has had access to, do 
show the last digits of the correct card number, so I think Mr B had enough information 
available to him to realise the card number he was using wasnt correct.
Creation have also explained that it did try to contact Mr B on a number of occasions, but it 
couldnt get through to him on the number it had recorded for him. So, overall, I think 
Creation have tried to help Mr B, and because of this I cant hold it responsible for Mr B not 
being able to use the system. 
I can also see that Creation provided Mr B with other payment options, all which Mr B didnt 
want to use and subsequently didnt attempt. So, although they might not have been his 
preferred way to make the payments, Im satisfied he was offered reasonable alternative 
options to enable him to make payments on his credit card account.
The terms and conditions of the account explain that at least the minimum payment needs to 
be made by the due date. And this responsibility is on Mr B to ensure that the payment is 
received in time. While Mr B has clearly had difficulties in making the payment, he could 
have tried one of the other options available to him to make a payment, which I cant see he 
has done. 
So, with all of the above in mind, while I dont dispute Mr B has had difficulties in making 
repayments to his credit card account, I dont think these difficulties are down to anything 
that Creation have done wrong. 
Creation is entitled to make attempts to collect an unpaid debt. I have seen copies of the 
letters that Creation says it sent to Mr B about the debt. I cant agree with Mr Bs comments 
that these letters are threatening. Rather, they explain what might happen to the account 
and or Mr Bs circumstances if the debt remains unpaid and arrears continue to build on the 
account. Creation is obliged to provide Mr B with this information and so while I can 
understand why Mr B might be unhappy about these letters, I dont think it was wrong of 
Creation to have sent them.
There are arrears on this account that Mr B is due to repay. Its clear from what Mr B has 
told this service that he cant afford to repay the arrears in one go. I have recently seen 
information to suggest that both parties have now come to a repayment arrangement, which 
Im pleased to see. Mr B wont be able to make repayments using the online system for the 
time being while his account is suspended. He will need to do this using one of the other 
methods Ive mentioned above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman