DRN-2552964
The complaint
Mr S is complaining about how Hiscox Insurance Company Limited (Hiscox) has dealt with 
insurance he bought to cover a second property he owns.
What happened
 Mr S had building and contents cover on his main home. He asked Hiscox to add a second 
property, which was unoccupied and being renovated. Hiscox agreed to provide the cover, 
and later agreed to extend this as the work took longer than first anticipated. Eventually 
Hiscox said it wasnt going to renew the policy again  and that it believed it should bring its 
relationship with Mr S to a close by cancelling all his insurance  not just that on the property 
he was renovating.
Mr S complained about three main things: he thinks he should have been sold staged 
cover for each part of the renovations as they took place, and that hes been sold too much 
cover, especially as his builder also insured the work being done. Hes also complained 
about the cancellation of all his cover and the way that was handled. Finally hes complained 
about the way Hiscox dealt with a request for information he submitted.
Our investigator thought Hiscox could have done more to help Mr S, and suggested it pay 
£150 for the inconvenience it caused. 
Mr S doesnt agree with this, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to comment on every point Mr S and Hiscox have made. Instead Ill 
concentrate on the main issues. I have however considered all the information that both 
parties have sent us.
I think there are three main points and Ill deal with them separately.
The sale of the insurance
When Mr S initially contacted Hiscox about buying cover for his new property, the member of 
staff said Hiscox doesnt provide staged cover: instead it provided cover for the overall cost 
of the renovations over a fixed time period. Hiscox says it explained this to Mr S at the time 
and he confirmed he was content to go ahead with cover. As the work took longer than 
expected, Hiscox agreed to extend the cover on a couple of occasions  and charged an 
additional premium for this. Ive listened to various phone calls where these points are 
explained  and also to later calls where the extent of the cover and the circumstances in 
which Mr S might be able to claim were explained to him. In the calls Mr S seems to be 
content with the explanations.
I cant see anything that suggests Hiscox mis-sold the insurance. Im not upholding this part 
of the complaint.
Our investigator concluded that Hiscox could have provided better information on a cooling 
off period towards the end of the policy lifetime. I agree with her, but as Hiscox later 
addressed this and it had no ongoing negative effect on Mr S, I dont think Hiscox needs to 
do more than it did.
The cancellation
Eventually Hiscox told Mr S that it no longer provided the sort of cover he wanted, and gave 
him notice that it was going to end its relationship with him. That meant it would no longer 
insure either of his properties after 9 February 2020. Hiscox says it wrote to Mr S about this 
on 10 January. Mr S says he didnt get this notice by recorded delivery as stated in his policy 
 nor was he aware that the cover on both of his properties was being cancelled, not just 
that on the property being renovated. He discussed this in several calls with Hiscox at the 
end of January, but says by the time he knew how the cancellation was going to affect him, 
he was short of time to shop around for reasonably priced alternate cover, and this cost him 
time and money.
Hiscox is entitled to make commercial decisions about what types of insurance it provides, 
and to whom. So I cant say it was wrong to decide it no longer wanted to insure Mr S. But it 
should have contacted Mr S about this in line with the terms and conditions in his policy. 
Hiscox says it sent the cancellation letter by first class post  which isnt in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. It points to the fact that a copy of the letter is on Mr Ss file to 
support this. If Hiscox had sent the letter by recorded delivery  or called him to explain what 
was happening  Mr S would probably have had a couple of extra weeks in which to re-
arrange his insurance. So the effect of Hiscox mistake this was to leave Mr S with less time 
to make other arrangements, and as he says, more inconvenience than necessary. 
However, when Mr S spoke to Hiscox, the member of staff did explain what was happening, 
and at one point re-assured him that an already existing claim would still be met. Hiscox also 
provided Mr S with contact details for alternate insurers/intermediaries, to help him with his 
search for replacement cover. That seems reasonable to me.
The Subject Access Request
Mr S says he first requested copies of all the calls hed had with Hiscox in October 2019, but 
nothing happened. He mentioned this during a call at the end of January 2020, and Hiscox 
says it sent details of how Mr S could access the calls on 26 February  within the required 
timescale for such things. It doesnt have a record of his earlier request. I dont doubt Mr S 
asked for a copy of the calls in October, if he says he did. It seems Hiscox overlooked the 
request. I cant see that Mr S was very concerned about his request, as he didnt mention it 
again for about three months. In these circumstances Id expect Hiscox to action the request 
as soon as it knew it had been overlooked  and it seems to me that it did this.
Mr S says hes since been unable to access the phone recordings as the user names and 
passwords provided by Hiscox dont work  so Hiscox hasnt complied with its obligations to 
provide the information.
Ive looked at the emails Hiscox sent and Im satisfied it sent the relevant access details to 
the email address Mr S used when submitting the SAR. It wasnt until May that Mr S said he 
hadnt had these details and a little later that he wanted Hiscox to use a different email 
address. I dont think Hiscox did anything wrong here, as it provided information to the 
address it had been given. I can see it emailed Mr S several times to make suggestions 
about how he might overcome the problems he was having accessing the portal, and it 
offered further assistance if necessary. I can also see Hiscox reinstated the access rights to 
the information and provided Mr S with the relevant details to a second email address as hed requested. It says Mr S has since been communicating from a third address although 
he hasnt told Hiscox its his preferred email address. Hiscox says it can only provide SAR 
access information to the address it formally holds in connection with the request  that is 
now the second address. It thinks this may be why Mr S cant get into the portal that contains 
the call recording he wants to listen to.
Ive looked at the emails Hiscox exchanged with Mr S, and they do show its acted as 
described above, so I cant say it hasnt done what it should to allow Mr S access to his 
information. Notwithstanding this, it doesnt appear Mr S has been able to listen to the call 
recordings  so Hiscox needs to agree with Mr S some other way of allowing him access to 
his information. 
Hiscox says its complied with the requirements for providing this sort of information. But 
there are, as it knows, several ways it can do this, not just through an online portal. Im not, 
as our investigator suggested, going to insist Hiscox send a cd recording, if it doesnt think 
thats secure. I am going to say it is more expert in handling these requests than Mr S is, and 
so should be pro-active about taking further reasonable steps to provide this information in a 
manner that is accessible by Mr S, if he still wants it. 
Putting things right
I appreciate that Mr S has been inconvenienced by Hiscoxs actions around the cancellation 
of his insurance. As I said earlier, Hiscox is entitled to make commercial decisions about 
who it wishes to insure  but it should have provided more notice than it did.
 
I cant conclude that Hiscox has acted unfairly with regard to the request for copies of calls. It 
seems to me that its made adequate efforts to provide the information as it usually would, 
although I do think it should now do more.
Taking everything into account I think that the compensation recommended by our 
investigator (£150) is a fair amount. Ill leave it with Mr S and Hiscox to decide between them 
the best way to get the call recordings to him.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Hiscox Insurance 
Company Limited to work with Mr S to get his information to him, and pay £150 
compensation for the way it dealt with the cancellation of his insurance.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman