DRN-3135122
The complaint
 Mr S complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to him in an irresponsible
Manner.
 
What happened
 Mr S was given 4 loans by ELL. The details of these are as follows:
Number Date taken Amount Term Repayment
1 20/06/2014 £5000 24 months £330.13
2 15/10/2015 £8000 24 months £446.40
3 13/04/2017 £8000 24 months £451.98
4 16/10/2017 £11,000 36 months £472.24
When Mr S took out loan 2, he used part of the capital amount to repay loan 1. He did this 
when he took out loans 3 and 4 also. 
 I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Loan 1
ELL gathered some information from Mr S before it agreed to loan 1 in June 2014. It asked 
him for details of his income and his normal housing costs. It then checked Mr Ss credit file 
to determine how much he was paying to other lenders. And it asked Mr S to provide copies 
of his bank statements so it could verify the information hed supplied. 
Mr S was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He was agreeing to
make monthly repayments for a period of two years. So, I think it is right that ELL wanted to
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ss financial
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did achieved that aim.
Im currently minded to think that its checks for loan 1 were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information
ELL gathered from Mr S to check whether I agree it was appropriate for him to be given
this loan.
Mr S was self employed and his level of income at this time was recorded down as £4000 
and this was verified by ELL on the bank statements that he provided. It also recorded down 
a mortgage payment of £731, credit commitments of £966.77 and arrived at an estimated 
figure for living expenses of £1000. It worked this out by using around 35% of Mr Ss income 
(with £1000 being the maximum amount that it would record down, as was the case here). It 
then calculated Mr Ss disposable income as £972.10 after it took into consideration the 
repayment from loan 1. I can see the credit search that it conducted at this time and there is 
nothing in it that ought to have caused ELL any concerns. I have also reviewed the bank 
statements that it would have had in front of it. Mr S had provided his personal statements 
and also business statements, presumably to have his income verified. I can see that Mr S 
was earning what he had declared he was to ELL and also there was nothing of concern 
regarding his expenditure either. When I look at the credit search results, the bank 
statements and also ELLs assessment, I think on balance, it made a fair lending decision. 
The loan looked comfortably affordable for Mr S.
Loan 2
Mr S looked to refinance loan 1 around 14 months later, when he applied for loan 2. He 
would use part of the loan to repay loan 1 and then receive the rest. ELL again says it 
conducted the same checks. It recorded down his income, normal housing costs, asked Mr 
S about his credit commitments and says it looked through his bank statements. I havent 
been able to see a credit search for this loan application though. 
Again, this was a significant commitment that Mr S was entering into with ELL and this was 
his second loan with it. Mr S was refinancing and was asking for more than he had asked for 
when he applied for loan 1. I would have at this stage expected ELL to conduct a complete 
review of Mr Ss finances to ascertain whether he would be able to sustainably make the 
repayments over the 24 months loan term. So, I think, as well as verifying his income, ELL 
should have also looked to verify Mr Ss expenditure within the bank statements that it had 
gathered rather than using an estimated figure for his living expenses. This is so it could 
assure itself of Mr Ss true financial position and that he could make the repayments in a 
sustainable way.
As I cant see that it did this, I would need to consider what it would have seen if it had 
carried out further checks. Mr S did provide his personal and business bank statements to 
ELL from a period of time leading up to the loan application for loan 2. So, I have been able 
to review them and look through Mr Ss expenditure. In doing this I can see that there was 
not a lot of credit impairment on the statements and that Mr Ss living expenses were roughly 
in line with ELLs assessment. It had worked out that Mr S would have had disposable 
income of £521 before the loan repayment of £446.40 for loan 2. It was then consolidating 
loan 1 so that loan repayment of £330.13 would cease. So, I can see that based on its 
assessment, Mr S would have comfortably been able to afford the repayments for loan 2. 
And I havent seen anything within the bank statements provided by Mr S to ELL that would 
suggest to me that further checks and further verification of his expenditure would make the 
loan unaffordable. So, I dont think ELL irresponsibly agreed to this loan either.
Loans 3 and 4
Mr S applied for loan 3 in April 2017. It was now 34 months after he had applied for his first 
loan with ELL and he was again looking to refinance. Mr S also took out loan 4, 6 months 
later in October 2017 and refinanced again. On both occasions I think ELL needed to have 
carried out a complete review of Mr Ss finances to assure itself that he could maintain the 
loan repayments. The loan amounts that Mr S asked for had crept up as had the repayments 
and for loan 4, the repayment term had been extended to 36 months. 
ELL says that on both occasions it asked Mr S for his income and expenditure during a 
phone call and followed this up by reviewing his bank statements and conducting a review of 
his credit file. It has not been able to share with our service Mr Ss bank statements though 
and it hasnt been able to provide us with a copy of the credit search that it conducted on 
both occasions. So, I cant be sure that it did carry out proportionate and reasonable checks 
on either occasion. I can also see that on both occasions it again used an estimate figure to 
calculate Mr Ss living expenses rather than verify his expenditure with the bank statements that it says it gathered. Based on this, I cant see that it did carry out proportionate checks for 
loans 3 and 4.
I need to consider what ELL would have seen if it had carried out further checks on both 
occasions. But I havent been able to see the bank statements that Mr S provided ELL with 
and I havent been able to review the credit search results that it said it conducted. 
Mr S also hasnt been able to provide our service with bank statements from before and 
around when he took out loans 3 and 4. So, I havent been able to see what ELL would have 
most likely seen if it had carried out further checks and if it had been able to verify all of the 
expenditure that further checks would have shown. 
I have though, been able to review notes that ELL typed on its system at the time it reviewed 
Mr Cs bank statements. This is not comprehensive at all but It at least gives me some idea 
of what it reviewed at the time of each loan application. For loan 3, ELL has summarised 
bank stats  ran in good order and has listed some checks that it has carried out such as 
looking through the statements to see if there were any short-term loans or impaired credit. 
For loan 4 it carried out similar checks and noted this down also. 
I can see on its assessment of loan 3 and of loan 4 that ELL has worked out that Mr S had 
enough disposable income to afford both loans. I dont think it carried out enough checks 
when it did this, and I cant say for sure what further checks would have shown as I havent 
been able to review bank statements as ELL havent submitted the ones that it reviewed at 
the time and Mr S hasnt provided any either. And there is nothing based on what I do have 
in front of me both from the assessment that ELL carried out and from the notes of these 
checks, that would suggest either loan was unaffordable for Mr S.
So, because of this when I look at the lending decision that ELL made for loans 3 and 4, I 
am unable to safely conclude that they were unaffordable for him. 
Finally, I have also considered whether there was a point in the lending relationship 
between the two parties, where it would have become clear that Mr S had become reliant 
on the credit that ELL was providing. This is relevant in particular as Mr S had been 
borrowing money from ELL for 34 months up to his application for loan 3 and 40 months 
when he applied for loan 4. The amounts that Mr S was asking for had crept up and so had 
the repayments that he was making. But as I have already mentioned, ELL had left a note 
on its system to say it had reviewed the bank statements provided before it agreed to lend 
to Mr S on both occasions. It had recorded that there was very little impaired credit on these 
statements. When I consider this for both loans 3 and 4, on balance, I am currently unable 
to safely conclude that Mr S had become reliant on the lending provided by ELL.
In conclusion, I think the checks ELL carried out for loan 1 were proportionate and on 
balance it made a fair lending decision. For loan 2 I think it should have looked to carry out 
further checks but based on what I could review I think the loan was affordable for Mr S 
anyway. For loans 3 and 4, I again felt ELL could have done more to gather further 
information before it agreed to lend. But Ive not been able to see what better checks would 
have shown ELL, so on this occasion I havent been able to draw any conclusions about 
loans 3 and 4, other than I cant say that they were unaffordable for Mr S. And I havent 
been able to conclude that Mr S became reliant on the credit provided by ELL either.
So, I currently dont think ELL was wrong to give any of the loans to Mr S based on the 
circumstances of his complaint.I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. ELL did not respond. Mr Ss representatives responded and 
said Mr S accepts the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Mr S has not made any new points for me to respond to and ELL has not responded. So, 
as neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will 
change the outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings 
within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman