DRN-2213853
The complaint
Mr D and Mr D are unhappy with the lack of settlement for their drainage claim and the 
general claims handling provided by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.
To avoid confusion and for ease of reading Im going to refer just to one Mr D throughout this 
decision.
What happened
Mr D noticed some damp issues in the courtyard outside his home. There was also mould 
forming on an exterior wall. So, fearing there was a drainage problem he contacted Lloyds to 
make a claim. Lloyds appointed drainage experts C to inspect the damage and validate 
the claim.
C provided a report to Lloyds and following this Lloyds contacted Mr D to decline the claim. It 
said the issues with the damp were due to poor pipe installation. Mr D challenged this and 
said he wanted a copy of the report and he wanted to talk to a manager. Mr D said he never 
received the full report and there was no call back from a manager. Mr D said this was poor 
claims handling and customer service. Lloyds said to Mr D that it was happy for him to get 
his own expert report as evidence. And if this did prove a valid claim had occurred it would 
pay his expert costs and reconsider the claim. Lloyds apologised and said it shouldve dealt 
better with Mr Ds request to speak to a manager. But it added that a manager wasnt going 
to overturn the decision and the claim would remain declined. Unhappy with this Mr D 
brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the expert report showed the damage 
was caused by poor installation and so she felt Lloyds had acted reasonably when it 
declined the claim. Our investigator accepted there was no evidence an insured event had 
taken place under the policy cover. She noted that Lloyds had apologised for the mistakes in 
customer service and she said it didnt need to take any further action.
Mr D remained unhappy with this and asked for his complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When notified by Mr D about the claim Lloyds considered it under the accidental damage 
section of the policy. Within the investigation report carried out by C under the engineers 
findings it said:
the engineers completed High Pressure Water Jetting to try to remove hardened deposits 
from upstream to allow a CCTV survey to the blind connection. The gully surround is 
deteriorating allowing water to ingress into the ground. There is a rodding eye access on soil 
vent pipe one that is leaking and requires replacement.
And it went on to conclude:
Cause and Extent of Damage
Poor installation of the gully and wear and tear.
So, I dont think theres any doubt about what Lloyds experts found based on the report.
The policy specifically said regarding maintenance:
Any loss or damage caused by wear and tear, depreciation, the effects of light or the
atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot or fungus and costs that arise from the normal use,
maintenance and upkeep of your buildings.
Under the accidental damage section, it said:
What is not coveredAccidental damage
c. by wear and tear or gradually developing deterioration settlement or shrinkage of the
buildings.
i. arising from faulty workmanship, defective design or use of defective materials.
So, I think the policy wording is clear about what is excluded from cover.
The final response letter from Lloyds confirmed that it was declining the claim under the 
policy wording due to poor installation which was allowing water to escape ...It was noted 
there was an access point on the soil vent pipe which was leaking.
Overall, I think Lloyds acted reasonably and in line with the policy wording when it declined 
to deal with the claim. Its provided evidence suggesting the issues are with the installation 
and theres no details to show any event normally covered by the policy has occurred. I note 
that Lloyds did confirm it was willing to reconsider the claim based on any further expert 
evidence. It also said it would pay costs for such evidence if it was persuasive in terms of 
changing the claim outcome. I think thats fair. I dont think any expert evidence to outweigh 
the details provided by C have been forthcoming.
In terms of the claims handling I see that right from the start of the claim Lloyds noted 
difficulties in reaching Mr D by telephone. And I can see from the records that it had 
attempted to call him to confirm that there was no policy cover when it received the expert 
report. After this had been discussed and Mr D said he wanted to talk to a manager Lloyds 
accepted that this didnt happen and apologised. But the records show it did confirm to Mr D 
that a manager wouldnt be able to change the claim decision. So, as it apologised for the 
oversight and accepted that it should have arranged a call, I think Lloyds has acted 
reasonably. I dont think it has to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
John QuinlanOmbudsman