DRN-3443107
The complaint
Mr B and Miss W complain that Allianz Insurance Plc declined a claim for treatment on their 
pet insurance policy. The pet is covered for life by the policy and they believe the treatment 
should be included.
What happened
Mr B and Miss W took out a pet insurance policy with Allianz that provided cover for life. Itd 
been in place for over 10 years. Unfortunately their pet had been poorly for a period of time. 
Although some of the claims had been dealt with satisfactorily, Mr B and Miss W are 
unhappy with the handling of a recent claim for bladder stone treatment.
Theyd followed the vets instructions to use special dietary food rather than put their pet 
through an invasive operation to remove the bladder stones. But when the vet forwarded the 
invoice to Allianz it refused to pay for the dietary food. Mr B and Miss W said theyd not 
received any correspondence from Allianz  even though it said itd emailed them. And 
theyd like their claim accepting and compensation for the distress caused.
Allianz said Mr B and Miss W had previously claimed for food for similar treatment a few 
years before. Itd accepted those claims. But the policy only provided cover for a maximum 
period of six months from the first treatment. So Allianz felt itd correctly rejected the claim in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Allianz used the email address it had on record for to advise Mr B and Miss W of any claim 
outcomes. And itd included them while discussing matters with the vet. But it apologised for 
the delay in responding to their request for an update and offered Mr B and Miss W £50 
compensation.
Mr B and Miss W werent satisfied with Allianzs response. So they contacted our service 
and our investigator looked into the matter. He looked at the terms of the pet insurance 
policy and specifically the section entitled the cost of feeding your pet. Our investigator felt 
the terms were sufficiently clear that payments were limited to a maximum of six months 
after the first treatment. And he felt the condition didnt need to be highlighted separately as 
an exclusion in the policy documentation. 
Our investigator said the medical history showed the pet had previously suffered from 
bladder stones. Claims made in 2014 had included payment for the special dietary food. But 
the terms of the policy said if stones or crystals reoccurred more than six months after the 
first treatment then the cost of any further food wouldnt be covered. 
Our investigator could see the maximum length of benefit had been explained to Mr B and 
Miss W after theyd complained that later food costs had been declined. So he thought they 
would reasonably have been aware that the cost of food wouldnt be paid in future claims. 
Our investigator was satisfied the claim had been fairly declined in line with the policy terms. 
And he felt the £50 compensation offered for the delay in responding to Mr B and Miss W 
was fair in the circumstances. So he wouldnt be asking Allianz to do anything more. 
Mr B and Miss W didnt agree with our investigator. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans 
final decision. The policy clearly doesnt provide cover for life. And if theyd chosen surgery 
rather than the less invasive dietary treatment it wouldve been covered by the policy. 
Mr B and Miss W also felt the six-month period for food claims shouldve been noted as an 
exclusion as they were now excluded from claiming for food under any circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr B and Miss Ws pet has experienced. I understand 
their pet will have to use a special diet. So I can appreciate how Allianzs decision to decline 
their claim for dietary food costs would make a difficult situation even harder. But for me to 
be able to say Allianz has done something wrong here, Id need to see that its decision to 
decline the claim for food costs didnt follow the terms and conditions of the pet insurance 
policy. And in this complaint I dont think thats the case.
The pet insurance policy provides cover for life. This means there is no limit on how long 
the insurer will pay for treatment as long as its renewed by the policyholder. The insurance 
policy is essentially a contract between the insurer and the policyholder. And it sets out the 
obligations on both parties. 
The policy will state what costs the insurer will cover and what the policyholder will have to 
pay, and what they may have to do, to get the cover. The risks or costs covered by the policy 
may have a maximum amount that will be paid or a maximum period that the cover will apply 
for. And if there are specific risks or costs that the policy wont cover in any event then they 
have to be listed as an exclusion from the outset.
Ive looked at the policy documentation provided to Mr B and Miss W. The policy section 
headed conditions for veterinary fees and complementary treatment lists a number of 
conditions that must be followed to have full protection. But the policy conditions arent the 
same as exclusions. Cover will still be provided  but under certain conditions. 
I can see there is a condition called the cost of feeding your pet that says Allianz will only 
cover the cost of food for two reasons. The first is relevant here: 
If a diagnostic test shows your pet has stones and/or crystals in his/her urine we will 
pay for the cost of food to dissolve these. We will cover 40% of the cost of the food 
for a) up to 6 consecutive months, or b) until a diagnostic test shows the 
stones/crystals have dissolved, whichever happens first. After this time, if the 
stones/crystals have not dissolved in full or they recur, the cost of any further food 
will not be covered by your policy.
Mr B and Miss W made a claim in April 2014 that included the cost of specialist diet food 
following treatment for a blocked bladder. A claim followed in June 2014 included further 
food costs and was also settled by Allianz. 
A further claim in October 2014 also included food costs. But Allianz only paid for food costs 
to September 2014. It declined the food costs for October 2014 as they were after the six-
month cover had ended. 
Mr B and Miss W complained to Allianz that the October food costs had been unfairly 
declined and the insurer explained the costs were outside of the six-month period for claims 
after the initial treatment  as stated in the policy terms. So I think its reasonable to say Mr B and Miss W shouldve been reasonably aware there 
was a limit to how long food costs would be covered by the pet insurance policy  even if 
they didnt agree with the condition imposed by the pet insurance policy. 
When Mr B and Miss W made a claim for treatment in March and April 2021 Allianz says it 
kept them in touch with the progress of their claim through the email address it had on file. 
But itd declined the cost of food included in their claim as the six-month limit had passed in 
2014.
When Mr B and Miss W complained Allianz reviewed the decision and felt itd acted correctly 
and within the terms of the policy. But the insurer accepts it couldve handled their complaint 
better. Mr B didnt receive a call back from a manager and was passed between different 
handlers before the matter was properly reviewed. So Allianz offered Mr B and 
Miss W £50 compensation for the poor service. And I think thats reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I do appreciate how upsetting this has been for Mr B and Miss W. Theyre concerned their 
pet will need a special diet for life to stop the problem from recurring. And they believe the 
policy documentation is contradictory. If the policy provides cover for life it should just do 
that. If the cost of food isnt listed as an exclusion then it should also be covered for life.
I recognise that Mr B and Miss W took a difficult decision regarding their pets treatment. 
They thought a special diet would be the better option instead of an operation. And they 
assumed their pet insurance would cover the cost.
But as Ive explained every insurance policy will have conditions for the risks that are 
covered as well as exclusion clauses for the risks that wont be covered under any 
circumstances. I think the conditions relating to the cost of food are clearly stated in the 
policy document. And the restrictions section of the insurance product information document 
also says you can find out how much we will pay and for how long in the terms and 
conditions.
From what Ive seen the conditions relating to the cost of food and specifically the six-month 
maximum cover period after the first treatment were clearly stated in the policy document. 
The maximum period of cover was also explained to Mr B and Miss W in 2015 following an 
unsuccessful claim for food costs outside of the six-month period.
I know Mr B and Miss W will be unhappy with this outcome. But from what Ive seen I think 
Allianz has treated them fairly and its acted in line with the terms and conditions of the pet 
insurance policy. So I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman