DRN-2962617
The complaint
 Mrs W complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wouldnt give her an interest
free overdraft under their student offer.
What happened
 Mrs W had an account with RBS. She started a degree course in 2015. She had RBS 
student offer of an interest free overdraft until September 2019. She had to interrupt her 
studies due to her ill health. She is due to commence studies again in September 2021. RBS 
charged interest on her account starting in September 2019.
Mrs W complained that RBS should agree to continue to give her an interest free overdraft 
effective from September 2019. She argues that she had to interrupt her studies  due to no 
fault of her own, as she was unexpectedly taken very ill and suffered serious consequences. 
She was still a student of the university throughout the period of interruption and had 
access to all its facilities, such as the library, university email and support systems.
In January 2021, RBS said theyd applied their terms and conditions for a student account 
correctly. But they apologised for some poor guidance that Mrs W received on the phone 
and paid £200 compensation for that. They also refunded interest due in January 2021 of 
£55.85 as a gesture of goodwill. They said Mrs W qualified for their student interest free 
overdraft with effect from September 2021  when she recommenced her degree course. 
They pointed out that Mrs W could apply for an interest free overdraft for three months under 
the COVID 19 support scheme.
Mrs W brought her complaint to us. Out investigator said RBS had correctly applied the 
terms and conditions of their student package as they said, Student accounts are available 
to individuals who arecompleting a full time undergraduate course lasting at least 2 
years. She didnt consider that Mrs W was eligible for RBS student offer after September 
2019. And therefore, RBS didnt need to offer her student terms until September 2021.
Mrs W didnt agree and asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
This is a finely balanced decision, considering Mrs Ws exceptional circumstances versus 
the terms and conditions of RBSs student package.
Looking at RBSs offer  this includes an interest free overdraft of £2,000 for the time a 
student is studying. Mrs Ws overdraft limit is £2,000. Her husband doesnt work  as he is 
her full-time carer, and I can see that Mrs Ws overdraft limit is used fully. Mrs W receives 
disability benefits. RBS terms and conditions say Student accounts are available to 
individuals who are:
 completing a full time undergraduate course lasting at least 2 years;
 completing a full time postgraduate course; or
 training as a nurse,
at a UK university or college.
RBS (and our investigator) say that these mean that Mrs W doesnt qualify for the offer as 
she wasnt actually completing a course in 2019-2020  as shed interrupted her studies. 
Against that, Mrs W argues that it wasnt her choice to interrupt her studies  her serious 
illness caused that. And  she also says that she was still, effectively, at university  as she 
was still under their wing and had access to all university facilities and buildings, such as 
support, library, university email, and study materials.
Ive looked at the universitys agreement to Mrs Ws interruption  this is an important 
document. This says Thank you for your recent request to interrupt [sic] your studies with 
the University. This email confirms that your interruption of study has been approved by your 
school and processed. This now means that you will be governed by the University 
Ordinances and Regulations in place at the time that you re-register back on to your 
programmes of study.
During your period of interruption, you will be able to access your student email account so 
that we can keep in touch with you during this approved period of absence. You will also 
have access to library services. Further details can be found by clicking here.
Your interruption commenced on 29/09/2020 Your anticipated return date is 27/09/2021.
The link in the document confirms that Mrs W had continued access to university facilities, 
buildings, study materials, email and other resources. Thats not to say that she was 
studying at the university  but she was still effectively part of the institution. Mrs W argues 
that under RBS terms and conditions she was still completing her course.
So  there are valid arguments here both from RBS and from Mrs W. Mrs W has consistently 
argued her case. And while RBS have followed their processes here, strictly following a 
procedure or process can sometimes lead to an unfair outcome for a customer in the 
individual circumstances of their situation. I think thats whats happened here. I dont think 
RBS were actually wrong or made an error  but I think that given Mrs Ws unfortunate and 
unplanned circumstances, RBS should show some flexibility in allowing her to have the 
benefit of their student offer for a longer period.
The document from the university agrees to Mrs W interrupting her course from September 
2020 until September 2021. And so  I think that RBS should allow Mrs W to have an 
interest free overdraft (up to the student offer limit of £2000) from September 2020  until 
September 2021 (when she will be able to have RBSs student offer operating at that time). 
Ive looked at Mrs Ws bank statements  and she paid interest of around £4 to £5 a month 
between September 2019 and September 2020  this is unaffected by this provisional 
decision, and must be paid by Mrs W. But  the overdraft interest paid from September 2020 
to the date of any final decision should be refunded (I can see this is about £50 per month) - 
and the remaining months until September 2021 should be interest -free.
Responses to the provisional decision:
RBS said theyd followed their processes, apologised and paid compensation for the service 
issues. 
Mrs W told us that shed suffered further illness and injury, and her start date back at 
university had now been deferred to September 2022.
So  I now need to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS comments are acknowledged but dont really impact on my final decision.
Ive considered what Mrs W had said  and I dont think this affects my final decision. 
However, looking forward, if she feels she had a case for getting student account terms with 
effect from September 2021 (given that she wont start until September 2022), she will need 
to speak to RBS who will then make their own judgement on that. 
So  I am not going to depart from my provisional decision and for the reasons I have in it. 
And so, RBS must do what I suggested.
My final decision
 My final decision is to uphold this complaint. And The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
must:
Refund the interest debited to Mrs Ws account from September 2019 (including 
September 2019 - £17.86) to the date of this final decision. Noting the refund of 
£55.85 already made for January 2021.
Provide an interest free overdraft of £2,000 until September 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman