DRN-2901198
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Canada Life Limited declined his claim.
What happened
Mr B had a group income protection policy through his employer, underwritten by Canada 
Life. This would pay a benefit after a deferred (waiting) period of 26 weeks if he was unable 
to work due to illness or injury.
Following longstanding issues within the workplace, Mr B begun formal proceedings against 
his employer in July 2018. He then became absent from work on 20 November 2018 and 
was signed off work with work related stress. 
Sadly, in December 2018 Mr B also lost a close family member and continued to remain off 
work due to stress and bereavement. He begun talking therapy to help him through this 
difficult time. 
Mr B submitted a claim to Canada Life. They declined it on the basis that Mr B did not meet 
the definition of incapacity because his absence was caused by workplace issues, rather 
than an illness. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B brought a complaint to this service. He said he didnt think Canada 
Life hadnt taken account of all the medical evidence.
 
Our investigator looked at what had happened. She explained there wasnt enough evidence 
to show Mr B was incapacitated due to an illness or injury. She felt the main cause of his 
inability to work was due to problems in the workplace, so it was fair for Canada Life to 
decline the claim on that basis.
Mr B disagreed with her findings. He said his symptoms of anxiety and depression due to his 
bereavement hadnt been taken account of and the most recent evidence diagnosing those 
conditions shouldve changed Canada Lifes opinion. 
Canada Life maintained their position and said, in any event, the medical evidence suggests 
Mr B is still functionally capable of performing his occupation.
So the case has now been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alongside the problems at work, I'm sorry to hear Mr B also had to deal with such a 
traumatic personal event. I can see that he feels very strongly about his treatment by his 
employer and the situation he found himself in where he was unable to work or walk away 
whilst he had pending proceedings against them. I appreciate it mustve been a difficult time. 
Mr B has made a number of detailed representations, but Ill only refer to those which I think 
are central to my decision about how Canada Life has assessed his claim for income 
protection. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Canada Lifes terms and conditions define incapacity as follows:
We will treat a member as suffering incapacity, if, throughout the deferred period and
beyond, the members illness or injury prevents them from, and makes them incapable of,
performing the material and substantial duties of their normal occupation.
Material and substantial duties is defined as:
the duties that a member is normally required to do to perform their normal occupation and
which cannot reasonably be omitted or modified by you or the member. The duties refer to 
the tasks the member is required to perform, and whether those tasks could be carried out 
for you or any other employer. In addition, a journey to and from the member's normal 
residence to their normal place of work is not regarded as part of the normal occupation.
So Canada Life must be satisfied Mr B is suffering from an illness that is preventing him from 
doing the material and substantial duties of his occupation as an engineer. And he would be 
unable to perform this role with a different employer.  
Having looked at all the available medical evidence, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint 
because I think Canada Life have acted fairly.  Ill explain why: 
All the medical evidence makes frequent reference to Mr Bs ongoing difficulties with 
his employer. Mr B had started formal proceedings against them for discrimination, 
abusive behaviour and victimisation. And a few weeks before his absence hed found 
out his appeal hadnt been upheld. So, I think it was reasonable for Canada Life to 
conclude Mr Bs absence was related to work stress. 
The independent medical examiner (IME) reported Mr B is capable of functioning 
perfectly well in the day to day sense, bar the anxiety than can arise to certain 
triggers, mainly related to work. He said he does not consider Mr B incapable of 
working for mental health reasons, and that he could be working if he had a happier 
job situation to return to. This report was made by a consultant psychologist following 
a review of the medial evidence and a meeting with Mr B. Although I note Mr Bs 
concerns that the meeting was conducted after he had raised his claim, this is 
common practice in these types of claims. 
Its clear Mr B disagrees with the content of the IMEs findings  especially as he 
believes a later medical report contradicts the assertion that he wasnt suffering from 
a mental health condition. However, at the time I think it was reasonable for Canada 
Life to instruct an independent consultant and give weight to his specialist opinion. 
Mr Bs employers instructed a consultant psychiatrist (Dr H) to compile a report which 
deals with the psychiatric aspects of Mr Bs dispute with them. We provided this 
report to Canada Life, but it didnt change their opinion to decline the claim. Mr B 
feels this is unreasonable, so Ive given this medical opinion careful consideration. Although the report diagnoses Mr B with depression and anxiety, it also states Mr 
Bs condition doesnt impair his day to day activities. So I think its fair for Canada 
Life to assume he also wouldve been capable to perform the duties of his role. And 
therefore, still didnt meet the definition of incapacity.
In his submissions to us Mr B said going back to work with my current employer will 
only aggravate my condition as my recovery depends on having an accommodating 
and welcoming environment not a hostile one.  Which suggests its a change in 
working environment that would aid his recovery, not medical treatment or 
intervention. 
The psychiatrist (Dr H) also notes Mr B does not feel the need to seek any particular 
treatment, either with medication or therapy. This gives an indication as to the level of 
personal distress that he suffers.  
Ive thought carefully about Mr Bs tragic bereavement and his ongoing recovery for 
this. I agree with the medical experts that its difficult to separate out the two 
experiences which have largely impacted Mr Bs mental health (his employer dispute 
and family bereavement).  Ive considered Mr Bs recent submissions about suffering 
from depression and anxiety due to the traumatic bereavement  and these 
conditions being undiagnosed until Dr Hs report. However, there isnt enough 
medical evidence to persuade me that Mr Bs bereavement symptoms, in isolation, 
wouldve prevented him from being able to fulfil his duties at work. 
The reason Mr B was originally absent from work was due to his stressful situation 
with his employer and Im persuaded the bereavement that followed added to what 
he was already experiencing and feeling. 
Even if I was persuaded Mr B was suffering from anxiety and depression due to 
bereavement, and not work stress. I would still need the evidence to show his 
symptoms were so severe they prevented him from being able to perform the duties 
of an engineer  with any employer.
Although Mr B has provided a breakdown of the required skills for his role and 
explained his inability to perform them due to lack of concentration and social 
interaction, this isnt enough. I havent seen enough medical evidence to support the 
impact of these conditions. 
In summary, I think it was reasonable for Canada Life to conclude that, on balance its 
mostly Mr Bs difficulties at work that prevented him from carrying out his occupation. Overall 
the medical evidence suggests its likely Mr B wouldve been capable of fulfilling the material 
duties of his occupation, were it not for the issues he faced with his employer. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Canada Life declined this claim fairly because Mr B doesnt meet the 
policy definition of incapacity. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman