DRN-3930895
The complaint
Mr B complains that an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Services Ltd delayed in 
giving him advice about transferring the benefits from one of his defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension schemes to a personal pension. He believes that delay has caused 
him a financial loss. 
Mr B complained about the actions of Quilters appointed representative rather than Quilter 
itself. But as Quilter is responsible for the complaint, for ease of reading I will refer to the 
appointed representatives actions as being Quilters. 
What happened
Mr B was a deferred member of his current employers DB scheme; he was also a member 
of his current employers money purchase pension scheme. Ill refer to his current employer 
as C. He was also a deferred member of a former employers DB scheme. He also had other 
pension provision. Quilter had been giving Mr B financial advice since 2018. It reviewed his 
position each year. 
In March 2021 Mr B contacted Quilter to explain there had been some developments 
concerning his pension provision. Mr B said he was hoping to retire in 2025 when he turned 
57. Quilter replied that this was something they could discuss in the annual review later that 
year. It said that at that review they should probably go for a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) from Mr Bs DB pension schemes and an early retirement quote.
Mr B and Quilter agreed to meet in November 2021. When arranging that meeting Mr B said 
he had two specific issues he wanted to discuss: life insurance and his pension. He repeated 
that he anticipated retiring in 2025 but said it could be a year later or earlier. Before that 
meeting, on 17 November 2021, Mr B received a CETV quote of around £700,000 if he 
chose to transfer from Cs DB scheme. The CETV was guaranteed until 16 February 2022.
Mr B had a video conference meeting with Quilter on 19 November 2021. He emailed it the 
following day. He said that by transferring the funds from Cs DB scheme he could afford to 
retire at age 55, which was in around 17 months time. Quilter emailed him on 
21 November 2021 to confirm it would request a CETV from Mr Bs former employers DB 
scheme. But it said that if the scheme administrators took too long replying it could still 
advise him on the merits of transferring out of Cs scheme. Mr B replied the next day 
(22 November 2021). He said:
yes we Must [sic] do the C[] pension
Quilter wrote to Mr B on 23 November 2021 with a summary of their meeting on 
19 November 2021. Amongst other things Quilter said it had requested information about 
Mr Bs DB schemes which it was reviewing. It said it would keep Mr B updated. 
On 10 January 2022 Quilter rang Mr B. It didnt record the call and the precise exchange is 
disputed. Mr B says Quilter told him it had made a mistake in noting his birth date and that 
as he wasnt within 12 months of turning 55  the earliest date he could claim his pension 
from  it couldnt give him advice to transfer his DB scheme funds. In contrast Quilter 
disputes that it said it made a mistake as to Mr Bs birth date, but it agrees it did tell Mr B it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a transfer. That day Quilter checked with its compliance 
team whether or not Mr Bs age would prevent it from giving advice to transfer. The 
compliance team replied that  in Mr Bs circumstances  it wouldn't recommend a transfer 
until he was within 12 months of his 55th birthday.
Mr B appointed another advising firm to process the DB transfer for him. He complained to 
Quilter on 12 January 2022. Amongst other things he said it had made a mistake in noting 
his birthday, so its adviser believed him to be a year older than he was. He said he believed 
he might have lost out as a result of this mistake.
Quilter replied to Mr Bs complaint in February 2022. It didnt uphold it. It said it hadn't 
charged Mr B for advice. Amongst other things it said that a transfer wasnt feasible for Mr B 
and that it didnt note any inaccurate facts. It added that it couldn't guarantee to conclude the 
advice process within a certain timeframe and that it had asked for information from the DB 
scheme administrators which it still hadn't received. Mr B continued to correspond with 
Quilter but it didnt change its opinion.
On 15 April 2022 the original CETV was invested in Mr Bs personal pension because the 
DB scheme administrators agreed to honour the value even though its guarantee expired in 
February 2022.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. In brief he said that by not advising him at the outset that 
he wasnt within the right age-band to allow Quilter to make a positive recommendation to 
transfer his DB scheme funds, he had wasted 52 days. He said he found it stressful as the 
CETV was only guaranteed until 16 February 2022 so he was concerned that the value 
could go down if the transfer didnt progress in the time available. Mr B said hed had to find 
and appoint another advising firm in order to go ahead with the transfer. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. He issued two assessments and 
updated his recommendation for redress in the second one. He didnt think Quilter had dealt 
with Mr B fairly. The investigator said that if Quilter had advised Mr B that it couldnt 
recommend a transfer straightaway, due to Mr B not being within 12 months of his 55th 
birthday, then he could have begun the process of appointing another adviser that day. And, 
had that happened, Mr B could have paid the funds into his personal pension by 22 
February 2022. So our investigator said that Mr B had potentially lost out on investment 
returns from 22 February 2022 until the funds were transferred. He said Quilter should 
calculate a loss assessment to establish if Mr B had lost out and to compensate him if he 
had. He also said Quilter should pay Mr B £400 to address his distress and inconvenience.
Quilter didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint and Mr B didn't 
agree with our investigators method of redress. So the complaints been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and responding to it both Mr B and Quilter have made a number of 
detailed points. But, in this decision, I don't intend to address each and every issue raised. 
Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issues at the heart of Mr Bs complaint 
and the reasons for my decision.Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilter's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
Should Quilter have realised that it wouldn't give Mr B a recommendation to transfer sooner?
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So Quilter should 
have made it clear to Mr B at the outset that, unless there was compelling evidence that a 
transfer was suitable for him, it was likely that its recommendation would be that he shouldnt 
transfer. In fact it's notable that when Quilter was looking into Mr Bs complaint, the adviser 
concerned said that hed given this information to Mr B. But Mr B denies this.
Of course I wasnt there when the conversation took place, so I can't know exactly what was 
and wasnt said. But having looked at all the evidence very carefully, for reasons I explain 
below I prefer Mr Bs version of events.
Quilter has internal guidance which says that it won't recommend the transfer of a DB 
schemes funds unless the consumer concerned was within 12 months of being able to claim 
their pension. Quilter gave Mr B that advice on 10 January 2022. But, I think it should have 
given him that information when it met with him on 19 November 2021. Its clear that this is a 
hard and fast rule for Quilter and that unless Mr B met some very specific criteria, for 
example if he was terminally ill, then Quilter wouldnt advise him to transfer until he turned 
54. Quilter should have been aware that Mr B didnt meet that criterion. And that's something 
it should have been aware of from its meeting with Mr B in November 2021. But Quilter didnt 
tell him about its rule which would prevent it from recommending a transfer at the outset. It 
went away and made enquiries of the DB schemes administrators, it also requested 
information from Mr Bs other DB pension so it could give him full advice, although it already 
knew that the advice would be not to transfer. Mr B was clear that he wanted to transfer. As he said in his email of 22 November 2021 that 
they Must do the transfer. So Mr B clearly thought the transfer was going ahead. Mr B has 
explained that, some years earlier for a fee, Quilter had arranged a transfer from one 
personal pension to another. Mr B told us that he assumed the process would be similar and 
he didnt realise that the regulatory process is different for DB transfers. So he expected the 
adviser to simply sort this out for him in much the same way he had concerning the transfer 
of the personal pension previously. And I think Mr Bs email saying that they Must do the 
transfer is not something he would have sent if Quilter had let him know that it was quite 
likely it wouldn't recommend the transfer. 
Further, when Mr B emailed Quilter prior to the November 2021 meeting he said there were 
two things he wanted to discuss: the DB transfer and life insurance. Mr Bs said that he had 
a term life insurance policy that was due to expire. So he wanted Quilter to recommend 
replacement cover. But, after he received the CETV, which was for £700,000, Quilter told 
him that in the event of his death then the full pension pot would pass to his family. And in 
those circumstances he wouldn't need a replacement life insurance policy as the pension 
funds would provide enough cover. Its notable that Quilter didnt raise the issue of life 
insurance with Mr B again following the meeting. And given that this was one of only two 
topics Mr B wished to discuss, I think that supports his evidence that Quilter indicated that 
the CETV would provide the life cover he wanted. So I think Mr B left the meeting believing 
that the transfer would be going ahead and that would take care of two problems at once. 
That is it would allow him to retire early at age 55 and also give some financial security to his 
family in the event of his death. 
As I've said above the age restriction on Quilter recommending a DB transfer is clearly a 
hard and fast rule. This is Quilters own rule and not a regulatory requirement the FCA 
applies to all DB transfers. So, given that its its own rule and is very specific, I think the 
adviser should have been aware of it. But its apparent that he didnt bring this to Mr Bs 
attention at the time of the meeting. A DB transfer is a relatively complex process that often 
takes many weeks to complete. And given that Quilter should have known, at the outset, that 
it wouldnt recommend a transfer, I think this is something it should have brought to Mr Bs 
attention at the earliest opportunity. But it didnt do so. In fact some 52 days passed by 
before Quilter told Mr B about its age rule.
Quilters said that it was waiting for information from Mr Bs DB scheme which it still hadn't 
received when it told him, on 10 January 2022, that it wouldnt recommend a transfer. In 
other words by that time it had no more information than it did when Mr B told it that he 
wanted transfer advice. So its not the case that in the meantime Quilter had discovered 
some new information that meant it wouldnt recommend a transfer. It was always the case 
that it wasnt going to make that recommendation. And I think it should have brought that to 
Mr Bs attention at the outset. That would have allowed him to go through the process of 
appointing another adviser, at the earliest opportunity, who didnt have a hard and fast rule 
preventing a transfer recommendation. But because Quilter didnt do that until some 52 days 
had passed by, that was time that Mr B lost out on in the process. That was entirely 
avoidable, so I dont think Quilter dealt with Mr B fairly.
Quilters also said that Mr B was simply exploring his pension provision rather than looking 
for a definitive pension transfer. But I dont agree thats the case. The evidence on file is that 
Mr B had believed he would retire at age 57, although hed said it could be a year either 
side. Those plans changed once he received the CETV quote. Mr Bs explained that the 
CETV was two and a half times more than the previous CETV quote hed received around 
three years earlier. And the increased sum meant that he could rethink his retirement and 
bring that forward to age 55. Also when Quilter asked its compliance team for advice, the 
adviser said that Mr B definitely wants to retire at age 55. So Quilter was clearly aware that Mr B had brought forward his planned retirement to 55. And I'm satisfied that was a definitive 
goal and that he wasnt simply exploring his pension provision.
Should Quilter have advised Mr B to transfer his DB funds?
Quilters pointed out that it didnt actually provide Mr B with regulated advice, as it ceased 
the process before providing advice. I agree thats the case but it did start Mr B down the 
advice road and only told him some weeks later that it wasnt going to make a 
recommendation. Quilters also said that given the FCAs presumption that a DB transfer 
isn't suitable it was acting in Mr Bs best interests by doing that. As I've said above the FCA 
requires advising firms to start from the point that a transfer is not suitable. And Quilter 
clearly has its own criteria which, if consumers dont meet, then it won't recommend a 
transfer. DB transfers won't be suitable for most people. So having a rigorous process that 
would otherwise prevent it from giving unsuitable advice seems reasonable. It follows that I 
think it was fair for Quilter to tell Mr B that it wouldnt recommend a transfer. But I think it was 
unfair that it didnt do so sooner.
The impact on Mr B
Quilter has implied that Mr Bs newly appointed advising firm shouldnt have recommended 
the transfer. I havent assessed the suitability of the advice Mr Bs new adviser gave to him, 
as thats not something Mr B has complained about. But, not every DB transfer is unsuitable. 
I dont know if thats the case here. However, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment 
on whether the new advisers recommendation to transfer was reasonable or not without 
doing the necessary analysis. But what I can say for certain is that the advising firm 
managed to complete the transfer process, which is what Mr B wanted. So, if it had started 
that process sooner it could have finished it earlier and Mr B s fund would have been 
invested sooner. But because of Quilters delay in telling Mr B that it wouldnt make a 
positive recommendation under (almost) any circumstances, Mr B couldnt do that at the 
earliest opportunity. So, potentially, hes lost out on investment returns for the period of 
delay.
Mr B also told us that he found the whole process immensely stressful. He said that after his 
November 2021 meeting with Quilter, he started to put the wheels in motion to prepare for 
retirement at age 55. That included letting his employer know that he was intending to retire 
in around 17 months time, rather than over three years away. But, in telling him that it 
wouldnt recommend a transfer, Quilter essentially pulled the rug from underneath Mr B. He 
saw the prospect of early retirement slipping away from him. As it happened he was able to 
engage another adviser relatively quickly. His DB administrators also agreed to honour the 
original CETV, even though its guarantee expired in February 2022 before his new advisers 
could complete the advice process. But I understand that until that happened, Mr B was 
concerned that the CETV could go down. And if the administrators had applied the original 
expiry date then Mr B would have had to pay £250 for a further CETV. And I can understand 
that these concerns would have added to his worries at that time. So I think Quilter should 
pay Mr B £400 to address that.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Quilter to put Mr B, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for Quilters delay. From identifying that he needed to 
engage another advising firm to the completion of the process took 88 days. So, if Quilter 
had told Mr B at the outset that it wouldnt make a recommendation to transfer, Mr B could 
have started the process of appointing a new adviser at that point. And, if it had taken 88 
days the process would have completed on 22 February 2022. So Mr Bs fund would have 
been invested from that date into his personal pension.Therefore, in order to put things right I think Quilter should carry out a loss assessment to 
work out if Mr B has lost out by not investing his fund from 22 February 2022.
In order to calculate the loss assessment Quilter will need to calculate the notional value 
of Mr Bs fund if hed transferred the CETV on 22 February 2022 up until the date of my 
final decision. If the notional value is greater than the actual value of Mr Bs pension on 
the date of my decision, then Mr B has suffered a loss. Quilter should allow for the 
impact of charges and any withdrawals or contributions. It should pay the difference into 
Mr Bs personal pension.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should instead be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a 
notional reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
Its reasonable to assume that Mr B is likely to be a higher rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so making a reduction of 30% takes account of this. 
If Quilter is unable to ascertain the way that Mr Bs pension was invested, then it 
should use the benchmark Ive set out below, which I consider to be relevant for 
Mr Bs recorded attitude to risk.
Benchmark - The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 
1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made 
up of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to 
take some risk to get a higher return.
Pay Mr B £400 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Quilter must pay the compensation within 90 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Quilter should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
The loss assessment would require Quilter to liaise with Mr B and his personal pension 
provider. Mr Bs told us that he doesn't want Quilter involved in any way with his financial 
affairs. Instead hes suggested that Quilter pays him £5,000 representing any losses and a 
sum for his trouble and upset. But I think an actual assessment of whether or not Mr B has 
lost out is fairer. And my award of £400 compensation recognises the considerable distress 
and inconvenience he suffered as a result of Quilters actions. 
It Mr B doesn't want anything more to do with Quilter then he doesn't have to accept my 
decision if he chooses not to. But I need to point out that he either accepts my decision in its 
entirety or not at all. So he couldnt, for example, just accept the distress and inconvenience 
award without also accepting the loss assessment. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint. Quilter Financial Services Ltd should 
now take the steps Ive set out above under the heading of putting things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman