DRN-3446532
The complaint
Mr N complains about a lack of access to private medical treatment and the amount of 
rebate he has been offered to compensate him for this.
What happened
Mr N holds a private medical insurance policy underwritten by BUPA Insurance Limited and 
this renews annually. He needed to have two operations and a scan in 2020, but said these 
were delayed until January 2021, due to private hospital treatment being limited as a result 
of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr N said he continued to pay his full premiums during 2020, and would like to be refunded 
due to being unable to access the treatment he needed over a 10 month period. BUPA 
offered Mr N a rebate equivalent to one months premium. However Mr N was unhappy with 
this and made a complaint. 
BUPA said it didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said itd used a third party to assess the 
rebates it would offer to consumers. And had continued to prioritise those in need of urgent 
treatment, and put virtual services in place where possible. 
Unhappy with BUPAs response, Mr N brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened, and said they thought BUPA had acted fairly. 
BUPA made no comments on the investigators view. However Mr N disagreed. He said his 
policy was not fit for purpose and he should be refunded the premiums he paid during the 
months he was unable to access treatment. 
As Mr N disagreed and asked for a decision from an ombudsman, the case has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of Mr Ns 
contract with BUPA, as well as other relevant considerations, such as the law and industry 
guidance.
Ive focussed on what I believe to be the crux of the complaint, which is the lack of access to 
treatment, and the premiums paid for the policy during that time. Having done so, Im 
satisfied BUPA hasnt acted unfairly. And I say this for the following reasons. 
I appreciate Mr N feels very strongly that BUPA shouldnt retain the premiums he 
paid whilst he was unable to access the treatment he needed. However, insurance 
policies are intended to cover the risk of an event happening over the duration of the 
contract. And an insurer is entitled to retain the premiums paid to cover the risk 
during that time, even if no successful claim is made. BUPA provided cover under Mr 
Ns policy for the duration of his two policy years spanning 2020, and Ive seen no 
evidence that it refused to authorise treatment covered under the policy, so its 
entitled to retain the premium.
Its really unfortunate that Mr N had such a long delay in having the treatment he 
needed. The postponement was due to private medical facilities being taken over by 
the NHS, in response to the pandemic. This affected BUPAs ability to provide the full 
range of services it would usually be able to offer. This was an unprecedented and 
unforeseen event, and Im satisfied it was beyond BUPAs control. And I dont think 
theres anything more BUPA could reasonably have done for Mr N in the 
circumstances. 
BUPA has said non-urgent treatment had to be postponed during the pandemic, but 
it was still making provisions for urgently required treatment, such as for customers 
diagnosed with cancer. This included allowing the use of hospitals and consultants 
not usually available under the policies. Im persuaded that had Mr N needed urgent 
treatment, BUPA would have made arrangements for this. I think its fair to say that 
the surgery Mr N required for his back and foot was not urgent to the same degree. 
Although I appreciate he was likely in pain and would have wanted to have the 
necessary surgery as soon as possible. 
BUPA has said it put additional services in place to assist consumers during the 
pandemic. This included making services available from home, such as virtual GP 
access and virtual consultations. And I think this was a reasonable way of offering 
consumers benefits under their policies, whilst usual services were restricted. 
BUPA gave Mr N a policy rebate equivalent to one months premium. And Im 
persuaded by the evidence Ive seen that BUPA calculated its rebates fairly. As Ive 
said above, access to non-urgent treatment was restricted due to the pandemic, and 
Im satisfied this was beyond BUPAs control. So I wouldnt have directed BUPA to 
offer Mr N any refund in these particular circumstances. And I think BUPAs decision 
to do so shows it was acting fairly. 
Whilst I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Mr N, Ive not found that BUPA has 
acted unfairly. So I wont be asking it to do give any further premium refund.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against BUPA Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman