DRN-3345716
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited is part of an insurance 
wide bad practice effort in inflating renewal premiums for motor insurance. Mr K specifically 
said Advantage inflated the renewal price of his motor policy over several years. 
What happened
Following Advantage inviting Mr K to renew his motor policy in August 2021, Mr K declined 
and complained to Advantage about how it had overpriced his motor policy over several 
years.
 
He said he believed Advantage inflated premiums over many years, used cynical marketing 
ploys, causing him to waste considerable time on price comparison websites and on hold by 
phone trying to cancel policies. Mr K wanted us to consider a class response in order to 
ensure the motor industry as whole returned all the premium overcharging estimated to be 
£4bn per year to the customers.  Advantage didnt agree it had done anything wrong.
So, Mr K brought his complaint to us. The investigator also didnt think Advantage had done 
anything wrong. Mr K disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint, Ill explain why.
 
As the investigator explained, this services function to resolve individual consumers 
complaints about individual financial providers and their individual varying products. We 
have no authority or remit to take on any sort of class action against motor insurers or any 
other product group. Just none at all. We are not a court of law, we are not the regulator, and 
neither are we law or regulation makers.  The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is the 
regulator for motor insurers on the basis of any laws enacted by Parliament and its 
subsequent authority to make new regulations. So ostensibly Mr Ks complaint falls to be 
considered by the FCA but as the investigator explained it rarely investigates individual 
complaints.  Possibly other consumer groups might have a such a voice, but it is not the role 
of this service to become such a voice. Simply because we are an impartial resolution 
service for individual consumers complaints about individual financial products supplied by 
those companies regulated by the FCA in varying forms whether compulsory or voluntary. 
So, what I can look at is in Mr Ks complaint is whether Advantage adhered to the 
regulations and its policy conditions in the premium amounts for any policy Mr K specifically 
bought from it. Each consumer if they want to a drive a car must buy a motor policy. Thats 
the law. Mr K believes because its the law he doesnt have a choice but to buy a motor 
policy. Mr K used the example of credit card protection saying the consumer had a choice 
not to get a credit card so as not be caught out by credit card protection policies. 
However likewise every person can similarly choose not to drive a car too. But regardless, 
each consumer can choose to apply to any motor insurer they want to. If on answering the 
questions raised by that motor insurer, the risk presented by that consumer is deemed 
satisfactory by that insurer, the insurer will then set the premium price on the risks presented 
and offer that consumer a policy. If the premium price is too high or there are restrictions on 
the policy which the consumer doesnt like, the consumer is perfectly entitled to go 
elsewhere. 
So, theres a presumption on each policy issued that the consumer is happy with the 
premium price offered, as otherwise why agree to buy the policy.
Clearly the motor insurance market is very competitive, but each insurer is fully entitled to 
consider the risks it wants to insure and the risks it doesnt want to insure. Thats part of 
every insurers commercial discretion and its not something this service interferes with it. In 
doing this, insurers produce internal underwriting guides. These are obviously confidential 
and commercially sensitive and whilst they may be shared with us, we are under a duty not 
to share them with the consumer or indeed publish them in any way. These underwriting 
guides ensure that no one individual consumer is singled out or treated differently because 
in adhering to the underwriting guide, any other consumer in similar circumstances is treated 
the same. Mr K alleges that because all this is not out in the public domain for each insurer  
this means insurers are able to cynically manipulate the market. However, Mr K hasnt 
produced any evidence of this and furthermore in his case we are only talking about 
Advantage and no other insurer. In real terms however market forces dictate and of course 
each insurer is a commercial entity in competition with other insurers providing a similar 
product. So, one of the driving forces is to attract the type of customers each insurer prefers 
too. Hence the rationale of each insurer being fully entitled to decide which risks it wants to 
cover and which it doesnt. 
So here, Advantage has shown us that it did adhere to its own underwriting guidelines in 
assessing Mr Ks premium, even though I cant share with Mr K why that is.
In Mr Ks case, Advantage did the following with his applications for insurance:
27/08/17  Mr K bought a policy to start on 02/09/17 for a car with a reg number 
beginning with O for £451.50 per year
02/09/18  Mr K renewed his policy for the same car for £427.09 per year.
02/09/19  Mr K didnt renew his policy (no details of alternative insurance).
23/08/20  Mr K bought a policy to start on 02/09/20 for a car with the reg number 
beginning with G for £247.19 per year.
04/08/21  Advantage issued a renewal letter issued for the same car for £252.42 pa 
 which Mr K chose not to renew.
Obviously, Mr Ks second car was a better risk to Advantage as the premium was much 
lower. But I have no evidence before me to show that the decrease for the same car in 2018 
is over-priced, given frankly, it was lower than the premium charged in 2017. Likewise, I 
dont consider an increase of £5.23 for 2021 is at all excessive. Certainly, neither price 
change demonstrates corruptness as Mr K has alleged, nor is there any evidence here of 
systematic overcharging as he also alleges. Under the present regulations, Advantage are required to show Mr K what he was charged 
the previous year and to tell him a potentially better premium price might be available with 
any other insurer. The renewal invites sent to Mr K said the following:
If you've renewed with us before
You have been with us for a number of years. You may be able to get the insurance 
cover you want at a better price if you shop around."
And the renewal invites told him what he paid the year before. So, in that regard as well 
Advantage adhered to the relevant regulations it was supposed to adhere to. Consequently, 
there is nothing to show me what it did wrong.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman