DRN-4271215
The complaint
Mr F and Miss R have complained about their motorhome insurer West Bay Insurance Plc 
as they feel it hasnt settled their total loss claim fairly.
West Bay is the underwriting insurer for this policy although, in this case, the policy it 
underwrites is branded in a different name. As the underwriter, the complaint is set up 
against it. West Bay uses other companies to assist it in managing and progressing claims  
it is responsible for their actions.  
What happened
Mr F and Miss Rs motorhome was damaged by a small fire. Given its age, lack of 
availability of likely damaged parts and the location of the fire (in the dashboard), West Bay 
felt it was a total loss. Its engineer explained that the age of the motorhome meant the 
often-used trade guides wouldnt give a value for it. Some screenshots of motorhomes for 
sale privately were provided in the report which the engineer said were comparable to Mr F 
and Miss Rs vehicle. The engineer concluded that the likely market value was £16,995.
The value was put to Mr F and Miss R. They werent persuaded it was fair, or put to them in 
a reasonable way  whilst they were walking their grandchild home from school. They noted 
that, on the policy, they had placed a value on the motorhome of £20,000  they had spent 
less than that to buy the vehicle but had improved it since purchase. They couldnt find a 
replacement, with similar features to theirs and in a similar condition, for the sum proposed. 
In September 2022, West Bay paid Mr F and Miss R its determined market value, less the 
policy excess, as an interim claim settlement whilst it considered their complaint. 
West Bay issued a final response letter to Mr F and Miss R. It noted its external engineer 
had placed a market value on the vehicle of £16,995, using sale adverts. And this had been 
confirmed, upon review by its in-house engineer, as fair and reasonable. So it wasnt 
prepared to increase the value. 
Mr F and Miss R complained to this service. They noted there had been delay and frustration 
caused by West Bay in the early stages of their claim when it took four attempts for it to 
collect their vehicle. They said this had lost Mr F work. Mr F and Miss R said theyd had to 
chase West Bay throughout. And they still werent happy with the valuation, or the way this 
was put to them. 
Our Investigator, focusing on the valuation, noted West Bay had two engineers review the 
market value for the vehicle. She felt it was fair and reasonable for it to have relied on their 
findings. She didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr F and Miss R were unhappy. Their complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
review. I felt it should be upheld, with West Bay making a further settlement to Mr F and 
Miss R of £1,666, plus interest*. My provisional findings were:
I know Mr F and Miss R were asked for a value for their vehicle when arranging cover, 
which they gave as £20,000. This figure is logged on the policy schedule. But the policy 
wording does advise that a settlement will be based on the market value of the vehicle. With 
that being explained as the cost to replace the insured vehicle at the time of the loss with 
something comparable. 
I also know though that Mr F and Miss R have said that whilst they gave that value  they 
didnt really believe, that if a situation arose where their motorhome was damaged beyond 
repair, West Bay would just pay them that price. Rather they felt giving that value would 
indicate to West Bay the good condition of their vehicle such that a fair valuation could be 
discussed and reached. I think that is a reasonable view. And Im mindful that valuing older 
vehicles is, sometimes, not as straightforward as newer ones, where trade guides can 
usually return a reliable market value. When sale adverts then reasonably have to be relied 
upon to ascertain a fair market value for an older vehicle, there are also likely less examples 
on the market to review. Further, for motorhomes in particular, the exact features and 
condition of things like the upholstery, can have a marked impact on the price  with those 
type of details not always being apparent in sale adverts.    
Of course, here, West Bay has had two engineers consider the fair and reasonable market 
value for Mr F and Miss Rs motorhome. And some evidence to support that value has been 
provided  specifically screenshots of motorhomes for sale. But I think that evidence is 
somewhat limited  the screenshots dont show the whole advert, including the basic detail 
of the motorhomes for sale, let alone any key features. And no reasoning has been given by 
either engineer to explain why it is felt those adverts show motorhomes comparable to Mr F 
and Miss Rs. Nor any reasoning to otherwise explain why it is felt the sum of £16,995 is a 
fair and reasonable market value for it to base its claim settlement on. Ive not seen any 
evidence that makes me think West Bay took into account the specific features, including 
any of the upgrades reported, of Mr F and Miss Rs motorhome. West Bay, in settling a claim 
on the policy, has to be able to show that it has done so fairly and reasonably. Im not 
satisfied it has done that here.
So Ive thought about what the fair and reasonable resolution is here. In doing that Ive taken 
into account that there are limited motorhomes of the same year, or even of a similar age to 
Mr F and Miss Rs, for sale. Im mindful that they paid £16,500 for their vehicle but theyve 
improved it. Also, though, that not all improvements will add value. The screenshots 
provided by West Bay are, as Ive noted, limited in value, but they are the only sale prices 
Ive been presented with (for reportedly comparable vehicles). There are three, they show 
values of £16,995, £16,995 and £21,995. In the circumstances I think it would be reasonable 
to take an average of the three values  £18,661 to give a fair market value for Mr F and 
Miss Rs motorhome. That is an increase from West Bays value of £1,666. I think West Bay 
should pay this sum to Mr F and Miss R, plus interest* from the date of the original 
settlement until payment is made. The policy excess has already been accounted for.  
I understand that Mr F and Miss R havent replaced their motorhome. They say they couldnt 
do so with the insufficient settlement paid by West Bay. And that not having access to a 
motorhome has impacted them. Im not persuaded though, that West Bays settlement was 
so limited as to have reasonably prevented them from replacing the motorhome. I think its 
more likely that the lack of availability of similar aged motorhomes (over 20 years old) in the 
market place has made it difficult to find a replacement at a value near that paid by West 
Bay, or even near the increased amount I have awarded. Im not persuaded it would be fair 
or reasonable, in this situation to award compensation for distress and inconvenience 
caused by West Bay paying an unfair and unreasonable market value settlement for Mr F 
and Miss Rs motorhome. 
I know Mr F and Miss R were upset by the call they had with West Bay discussing the 
market value. But I dont think it was unreasonable for West Bay to have called them when it 
did. Clearly Mr F and Miss R were frustrated by the content of the call but sometimes frustrations will occur as part of a claim. I havent seen that West Bay was rude or 
unprofessional  clearly West Bays caller believed it had set a fair and reasonable market 
value, which Mr F and Miss R disagreed with. West Bay was wrong on this occasion, as Ive 
explained above, but this one call giving rise to the market value dispute, isnt something Id 
award compensation for.  
Mr F and Miss R said they were happy with the decision.
West Bay said it felt its offer had been fair and reasonable. Regarding the adverts it had 
previously relied upon, it said that all three were right-hand drive vehicles, and younger 
models than that owned by Mr F and Miss R, with one having substantially less mileage on 
the clock. So theyd all likely demand a higher price in the market than Mr F and Miss Rs 
left-hand drive, older and more travelled motorhome. It asked what upgrades had been done 
to Mr F and Miss Rs motorhome and whether there was evidence of them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When West By presented its file detail to us it showed us three cropped photos of sales 
adverts. In the main the cropped adverts showed one photo of the motorhome for sale, a few 
smaller thumbnails and a header detailing what was for sale. None of the cropped adverts 
contained any of the important information details often listed within sale adverts like this. 
Whilst I note what West Bay is now saying about these adverts, its not clear to me from the 
photos if all three of these examples were right-hand drive. Also, only one contains the year 
of the motorhome, it is younger than Mr F and Miss Rs and its price point is more than 
£20,000. Further, only one of the adverts is showing the mileage for the motorhome. That 
one says 49K, its not clear if that is miles or kilometres  with Mr F and Miss Rs 
motorhome measuring its travel in kilometres.
I note that West Bay has asked me for detail of what upgrades Mr F and Miss R have 
undertaken to their motorhome. I noted provisionally that its engineers did not seem to have 
taken the specifics of their motorhome into account when determining that the sales adverts, 
relied upon to calculate the settlement, were for comparable vehicles. I think if a fair and 
reasonable assessment of the motorhome had been undertaken as part of that 
determination, then West Bay would not now be needing to ask what the key features which 
might impact the value of the motorhome are. I remain of the view that West Bay had not 
fairly and reasonably settled the claim with its payment based on a market value of £16,995.
Having considered West Bays objection to my provisional decision, Im not minded to 
change my views on it. Either in respect of West Bay not having made a fair and reasonable 
settlement or that to resolve this a further payment of £1,666, plus interest should be paid by 
it. My provisional findings, along with my comments here, are now the findings of this, my 
final decision.   
Putting things right
I require West Bay to pay Mr F and Miss R:
£1,666, plus interest* from the date the original settlement was paid until this further 
payment is made.*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require West Bay to take tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Mr F and Miss R a certificate showing how much tax has been 
taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require West Bay Insurance Plc to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss R to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman