DRN-4101788
The complaint
Mr P complains about the level of service provided by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) under his 
motor insurance policy following an incident with a third-party also insured by them. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here. Instead Ill 
summarise my understanding and focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Mr P was involved in an incident with a third-party  also insured by UKI  in mid-2022. The 
third-party was to blame for the incident. Mr P contacted UKI and recovery was arranged, 
but it took several hours for it to happen, and Mr P says he was left stranded without food, 
water, or medication. Mr Ps disabled and was injured as a result of the incident. 
UKI contacted Mr P, acting in their capacity as the insurer of the third-party, to offer their 
services to progress matters  such as arranging a hire car, appointing solicitors, and 
settling Mr Ps car damage, amongst other things. Mr P says things were handled poorly 
from the outset due to poor communication, delays, and UKI lost his car, so he complained. 
UKI responded to complaint points across several final response letters sent in August and 
September 2022. They offered to pay Mr P £750 in total for the service issues. They also 
said other matters Mr P complained about were the responsibility for the third-party insurer  
in this case UKI as well  to respond to. Mr P wasnt happy with UKIs responses, so he 
asked our Service for an impartial review. 
I issued my provisional decision on 17 April 2023 which set out the following: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint 
UKI acting in their capacity as the insurer of the third-party 
Several matters complained about by Mr P arise from UKI acting in their capacity as the 
insurer of the third-party. Mr P was contacted after the incident by UKI to offer services in 
this capacity to settle their policyholders claim and indemnify Mr P (as the third-party) for 
any legal liability they had to him. This included, arranging a hire car, and settling Mr Ps car 
damage, amongst other things. 
Our Service doesnt have a free hand to consider every complaint referred to us. The rules 
that set out what complaints we can consider are the Dispute Resolution rules (DISP) in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. This means I can only consider a complaint if I 
have the power to do so. The relevant rules say that in order to bring a complaint, a 
complainant must be eligible. There are two parts to the test  the person bringing the 
complaint and the relationship they have with the business being complained about. Both 
parts of the test must be met. The relevant rules to this complaint say: 
DISP 2.7.1 A complaint may only be dealt with under the Financial Ombudsman Service if it 
is brought by or on behalf of an eligible complainant.
DISP 2.7.3 says an eligible complainant must be a person that is a consumer. Mr P is a 
consumer because hes acting for purposes outside his trade, business, or profession. So, 
Mr P meets the first part of the test. However, under DISP 2.7.6 it says: 
To be an eligible complainant a person must also have a complaint which arises from 
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent: 
(1) the complainant is (or was) a customer, payment service user or electronic money 
holder of the respondent; 
(2) the complainant is (or was) a potential customer, payment service user or electronic 
money holder of the respondent; 
(5) the complainant is a person for whose benefit a contract of insurance was taken out 
or was intended to be taken out with or through the respondent; 
(6) the complainant is a person on whom the legal right to benefit from a claim against 
the respondent under a contract of insurance has been devolved by contract, 
assignment, subrogation or legislation (save the European Community (Rights 
against Insurers) Regulations 2002) 
I recognise and understand it can be confusing where an insurer is insuring both parties 
involved in an incident. But that does mean there are two contracts of insurance involved 
here  and Mr P is only party to one of them. The majority of the claim was settled as part of 
UKIs obligation in the contract of insurance between them and the third-party to blame for 
the incident. Mr P wasnt party to this contract of insurance, nor was it taken out by the third-
party for Mr Ps benefit directly or indirectly. 
Therefore, Mr P doesnt meet the second part of the test because the contract of insurance 
in question (the policy the majority of the claim was settled under) was between UKI and 
their policyholder. UKI were settling their policyholders claim and indemnifying Mr P for any 
legal liability they had to him under that contract of insurance he wasnt party to. So, Mr P 
isnt eligible to bring matters arising from UKI acting in their capacity as the third-partys 
insurer to our Service. These matters fall outside our jurisdiction. 
UKI acting in their capacity as Mr Ps insurer 
Mr P raised several customer service issues which were resolved by UKI by paying 
compensation, so I havent included these aspects within my decision. Instead, Ive focused 
on what I consider to be the pertinent points, which follow: 
the level of service provided to Mr P by UKI on the day of the incident 
the level of service provided by UKI to Mr P in their capacity as his insurer 
the delays in appointing a solicitor 
the Guaranteed Hire Car Plus cover under Mr Ps insurance policy 
Ill address each point in turn. 
The level of service provided to Mr P by UKI on the day of the incident 
Mr P was left stranded for several hours in a dangerous place without food, water, or 
medication, while awaiting recovery following the incident. And says UKI kept him on the phone for longer than necessary which drained his battery, meaning he couldnt contact 
anyone to help him. 
UKI say their recovery agent aims to make recovery within one hour, but this varies 
depending on the number of callouts and they prioritise customers in difficult circumstances 
 such as needing recovery from a motorway. Given Mr Ps circumstances  hes disabled 
and was injured during the incident  he ought to have been given more priority on the 
incident day. UKI let him down here, and while they acknowledged this by compensating Mr 
P £200, I find this should be increased by a further £500 to recognise the impact their failings 
had on Mr P on the day. So, I currently intend to require UKI to pay Mr P a further £500. 
The level of service provided by UKI to Mr P in their capacity as his insurer
As mentioned above, Im unable to consider the actions of UKI when acting in their capacity 
as the insurer of the third-party. But that doesnt mean UKI had no obligation  as Mr Ps 
insurer  to provide him with a good level of customer service. I think they failed to do this at 
times and caused confusion over which issues were being handled by which party  and in 
what capacity. 
For example, Mr Ps car went missing for a period which left him chasing UKI for updates. I 
note the car was handled under the third-partys contract of insurance with UKI  not Mr Ps 
 but there was still a responsibility for UKI as Mr Ps insurer to keep him updated, and 
ensure the car was kept in a safe and secure location. Given Mr P found it had gone 
missing, Ive no doubt this would have caused him further worry and concern during what 
was already a difficult time. I dont find UKI handled this matter particularly well, so I currently 
intend to require UKI to compensate Mr P a further £100 in respect of the level of customer 
service provided while the claim was running. 
The delays in appointing a solicitor 
Mr P says despite UKI being aware of the need to appoint a solicitor promptly, they caused 
avoidable delays and were obstructive. Our investigator recommended UKI pay Mr P £150 
compensation, and UKI responded to say they had addressed this matter in September 
2022 and offered to pay Mr P £100. Our investigator hadnt had sight of this final response 
letter ahead of their assessment. 
All things considered  while there were some delays in appointing a solicitor, Im satisfied 
UKI took reasonable steps to acknowledge the inadequate level of service provided here by 
paying Mr P £100, so I currently dont intend to require UKI to increase this. 
The Guaranteed Hire Car Plus cover under Mr Ps insurance policy 
Mr Ps policy schedule shows he had Guaranteed Hire Car Plus. And the policy says this is 
designed to keep a policyholder mobile following an incident. It also says if UKI cannot 
provide a hire car theyll cover travel costs up to £50 per day if the following applies: 
Your car has been professionally adapted to carry a disabled driver or passenger 
and a suitable hire car is not available. 
There are no hire cars available, and no alternative cars are available for hire. 
Mr P says he was without a hire car for five days and therefore immobile despite being 
reliant on a car. And says UKI should pay him £50 per day for these five days. UKI didnt 
agree to this. They say Mr P accepted services from UKI in their capacity as the insurer of 
the third-party, so they wouldnt invoke the policy entitlement on Mr Ps policy given he didnt 
claim under this contract of insurance. I dont think thats reasonable. I say this because it doesnt seem Mr P was given much other choice but to agree for matters to be dealt with in 
this way  under the third-partys contract of insurance with UKI. And while Im aware Mr P 
agreed for this to happen, it doesnt seem likely he was informed that by agreeing to this, he 
wouldnt be able to use policy benefits such as this one. 
The terms clearly state UKI will repay travel costs which have been paid upfront by a 
policyholder, and then receipts or proof of travel must be provided to UKI for consideration. 
So, if Mr P can provide UKI with this information to show he incurred travel costs over those 
five days, UKI should cover these costs up to the policy limit. 
Summary 
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, Im unable to 
consider any complaint points in relation to UKI when acting in their capacity as the insurer 
of the third-party. Mr P isnt eligible to bring a complaint to our Service in this respect, so 
they fall outside our jurisdiction. 
Mr P had a terrible time of things and I find UKI let him down at times when failing to provide 
a good level of customer service, and causing confusion, amongst other things. So, I 
currently intend to require UKI to pay Mr P a further £600 compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience caused. This is in addition to the £750 compensation offered to Mr P by UKI 
within their final response letters from August and September 2022. 
I havent considered complaint points Mr P raised that UKI responded to within their final 
response letter in early-2023, as that matter is to be considered under a separate complaint. 
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is I uphold the complaint. I currently intend to require U K Insurance 
Limited to: 
Pay Mr P £600 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused; and 
Consider Mr Ps claim under the Guaranteed Hire Car Plus section of the policy upon 
evidence of travel costs he incurred during the five days he was without a car.
Responses to my provisional decision 
UKI responded to my provisional decision and made the following comments: 
UKI say on the date of the incident Mr P was at a business park which they didnt 
consider to be a dangerous location. They also say there are several businesses in 
this area Mr P could have approached for facilities. And although they acknowledged 
Mr P having to wait four hours for recovery wasnt reasonable, they felt the £200 
compensation they initially offered was fair. 
UKI dont think they should be held responsible for Mr Ps car going missing and 
directed Mr P to the third-party insurer after trying to do as much as they could to 
help locate the car. 
They say Mr Ps claim under the Guaranteed Hire Car Plus section of the policy 
should be directed to the third-party insurer. They say if they pay this claim under Mr 
Ps policy these costs cannot be claimed back. So, they suggested Mr P approaches 
the third-party insurer in the first instance, and if they refuse to cover these costs, UKI 
(as Mr Ps insurer) will consider any evidence of travel costs over those five days 
further. Mr P responded with the following comments: 
He no longer has a copy of travel expenses incurred over the five-day period without 
a car, and the policy says he is due £50 per day, so he never kept these. 
Prior to the mid-2022 incident with the third-party, he says he made a windscreen 
damage claim to UKI which was poorly handled. And this resulted in his windscreen 
damage claim not being settled before the mid-2022 incident which resulted in his car 
being deemed a total loss. He says the third-party insurer made a deduction to the 
pre-accident value of his car for the condition of the windscreen, and says he 
wouldnt have suffered this loss had UKI settled this windscreen claim under his 
policy. 
Since I issued my provisional decision this Service has made enquiries with UKI to 
understand whether any deductions were made from the settlement due to the condition of 
the windscreen, but they were unable to say whether it was or not as it was handled by the 
third party insurer. 
As all parties have responded to my provisional decision with their comments, Ill now set out 
my final decision, which follows. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Guaranteed Hire Car Plus cover 
Mr P says hes unable to provide proof of travel costs given the time thats passed. The 
policy says itll only respond to a claim under this section upon proof of costs incurred. So, 
its unlikely under the strict application of the policy terms UKI is liable for these costs. That 
being said, however, it seems most likely Mr P did incur some travel costs during this five-
day period given he relies on a vehicle to get around. So, I think the fairest way to resolve 
this aspect of the complaint is to include it as part of the overall compensation amount Ill be 
directing UKI to pay him. Ill return to this aspect later. 
Compensation 
UKI thought the additional £600 compensation I provisionally set out was too high given 
what they had already offered Mr P. They say on the day of the incident Mr P was located 
near a business park close to local businesses for access to facilities. They also say 
although Mr P reported the incident around 9:30am, it was said a third-party would assist Mr 
P. Then, around 1:30pm, Mr P confirmed he needed UKIs assistance, and recovery was 
made around 5:00pm. They offered to pay Mr P £200 compensation for the poor service 
here. They also say they shouldnt be held responsible for his car going missing as that was 
a matter for the third-party insurer to consider. And in any case, they said that, when they 
were made aware of this, they took reasonable steps to try and help locate it. 
I think UKI made some fair points when responding to my provisional decision. But I see no 
reason to deviate from the compensation amount I provisionally set out. I say this because I 
find further consideration ought to have been given to Mr Ps circumstances on the day of 
the incident. Hes disabled, was injured during the incident, and despite this, was made to 
wait far too long to be recovered. As part of my thinking on what amount of compensation is 
fair and reasonable, I also considered the overall level of service provided to Mr P while the 
claim was running. Namely: the communication and level of confusion caused over which 
entity was handling which claim aspect, and in what capacity. I maintain its fair to conclude Mr P had a terrible time of things  UKI should have handled matters much better, and with a 
higher level of customer service. 
Returning to the Guaranteed Hire Car Plus matter. Ive given thought to what the policy says, 
the lack of evidence available to support Mr Ps claim, and the total compensation amount Ill 
be requiring UKI to pay Mr P. Overall, I think £600 compensation fairly recognises both the 
service issues Mr P faced here, and the fact he was without use of a vehicle for a short 
period of time which resulted in him having to find other means of travel and likely incurring 
some costs. There are further considerations Ive taken into account when considering the 
compensation amount appropriate here, which Ive set out below in my summary. 
Windscreen damage claim and the impact on Mr P 
Mr P says prior to the mid-2022 total loss claim, he reported a separate windscreen damage 
claim to UKI that was handled poorly. He says UKIs agents delayed settling the claim which 
meant the windscreen damage was still present when the mid-2022 incident occurred with 
the third-party. He says the third-party insurer made a deduction to the total loss settlement 
due to the windscreen condition. And had UKI settled the windscreen damage claim under 
his policy, he wouldnt be at a loss in this respect.
UKI say the total loss settlement for the mid-2022 claim was handled by the third-party 
insurer. Its important I explain Im not considering whether the total loss settlement given by 
UKI  acting in their capacity as the insurer of the third-party  is fair. I say this because, as 
set out above, this matter falls outside our Services jurisdiction. Rather, here, Mr P says 
hes suffered a loss as the windscreen damage  that should have been dealt with by UKI as 
his insurer in the first claim  wasnt resolved. And he says this resulted in a settlement 
deduction. 
I find its reasonable to consider this aspect as part of my decision. I say this because our 
investigator considered the handling of the windscreen claim, and Mr P says he suffered a 
financial loss as a result which Im satisfied is ancillary to the windscreen damage claim 
made prior to the mid-2022 total loss claim. And ultimately, what Im being asked to consider 
is whether Mr P has lost out because of UKIs delay in handling his windscreen claim. 
Neither party has shown that a deduction to the total loss settlement was made by the third-
party insurer as the result of the windscreen condition. But UKI should cover the difference in 
the total loss settlement value for any deductions made for the windscreen condition if Mr P 
can show this happened. 
Summary 
Mr P had a terrible time of things and UKI should have handled matters better, and with a 
higher level of customer service. Im satisfied an additional £600 compensation for the 
service issues Mr P faced to be fair, reasonable, and proportionate here. I also think this 
recognises Mr Ps natural concerns over the potential total loss settlement deduction for the 
windscreen condition, and costs he likely incurred while not having a vehicle over that five-
day period. 
Im satisfied its reasonable to include Mr Ps concerns over whether a deduction to the total 
loss settlement was made as the result of the windscreen condition in my decision. If Mr P 
can demonstrate hes suffered a loss in this respect, UKI should pay him the difference for 
any deductions made by the third-party insurer for the windscreen condition. They should 
also pay him 8% simple interest from the date he received the total loss settlement until UKI 
pays the difference back to him. Putting things right
Ive set out below what UKI must now do to put matters right for Mr P. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is I uphold the complaint. I now require  
U K Insurance Limited to: 
Pay Mr P £600 compensation  in addition to what they previously offered to pay him 
 for any distress and inconvenience caused; and 
Upon Mr P evidencing this, pay him the difference for any deductions made by the 
third-party insurer to the total loss settlement for the windscreen condition. And 
include 8% simple interest* on that payment, from the date Mr P received the total 
loss settlement, to the date U K Insurance Limited pays the difference back to him. 
*If U K Insurance Limited considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr P how much theyve taken off. They 
should also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman