DRN-3378628
The complaint
Mr W complains that the car hed acquired via a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (AFS) 
was mis-sold to him. He says that he was unaware the car had a hybrid type engine which 
was something he had not wanted.
Mr W has been assisted in his bringing his complaint by a friend, but for ease of reference 
Im only going to refer to Mr W as the credit agreement is in his name.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr W entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement for a used car 
with AFS. The car was just under one year old and the monthly payments were £673.
In September 2021 Mr W assisted a friend whose vehicle had a flat battery by attempting 
to jump-start its engine using jump cables attached to his cars engine. Unfortunately, 
shortly after the jump cables had been attached to both cars, a fire broke out in both 
vehicles engines.
Mr Ws car was recovered and taken back to the dealership. It was inspected by a 
technician sent by the manufacturer who reported that the car had no faults and that the 
combustion had been caused by external factors. They said the required repairs to the car 
wouldnt be covered by the vehicles warranty. Mr W says he was advised that the fire 
occurred because his cars engine was a hybrid and so should not have been used to 
jump-start another vehicle.
Mr W complained to AFS and said that he had never been advised the car had a hybrid 
engine and he had believed it was a diesel engine as described in the paperwork. He 
requested that the hire purchase agreement be cancelled as the car had been mis-sold 
to him.
AFS didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said it was only responsible if there had been an 
inherent defect with the car which had arisen in the first six-months. It said there was no 
evidence of any fault with the car and that it had been reported that the cause of the fire 
had been due to the jump cables being of insufficient quality. AFS also said it couldnt 
comment about what had been said at the point of sale of the car, including whether it 
had any form of hybrid assistance.
Mr W was unhappy at AFSs response and complained to this service. He said hed been 
unaware the car had a hybrid engine and if he had known it wasnt a usual diesel engine, 
he would never have attempted the jump-start. Mr W said the documentation only 
described the car as having a diesel engine. He also said that the manual for the car had 
only said jump- starts shouldnt be attempted with plug-in hybrids.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. She said that 
there was no evidence the car had any inherent fault and so she was satisfied it had 
been of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
In regard to the description of the car, our investigator said that on the V5C the car was 
described as MHEV which stood for mild hybrid electric vehicle. She said she accepted 
that MHEV didnt appear on either the sales invoice or the hire purchase agreement so Mr 
W may not have been aware the engine was a mild hybrid at the point of supply though 
she didnt know what had been said by the salesperson. However, as the V5C said MHEV 
and the website confirmed that all models of this car had this feature, she couldnt say he 
wouldnt have been aware of it.
Mr W had said he wouldnt have acquired the car if hed known it had a hybrid engine as 
he didnt want this technology. But our investigator said that it would have been 
reasonable for Mr W to have done some research about the car before agreeing to 
acquire it via a credit agreement to ensure it suited his needs, particularly as the car 
wasnt sold conventionally due to covid.
Our investigator said that looking at the manual regarding jump-starting, this set out what 
to do to jump-start the car itself rather than using it to jump-start another car. She said it 
would have been reasonable for Mr W to check he could use his car to jump-start 
another before having done so.
Our investigator said she didnt think thered been any breach of contract and so 
she wouldnt ask AFS to agree that the car could be rejected or to cover the cost 
of repairs.
AFS agreed with the view of our investigator but Mr W disagreed. He said that under The 
Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 
2013 section 10, that before a consumer was bound by an off-premises contract the 
trader must give the consumer information about the main characteristics of the goods 
and services. He said only the log- book provided after the supply of the car had stated it 
was MHEV.
Mr W also said that by not providing the information as to the hybrid engine amounted to 
a breach of The Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 section 6. 
This section sets out that a commercial practice is misleading if it omits material 
information or fails to identify its commercial intent, which here was to provide a hybrid 
car that Mr W didnt want. He disputed that the website had been clear his model of car 
came with MHEV. Mr W also said that the manual only set out that a plug-in hybrid 
engine shouldnt be jump started.
As the parties werent able to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, but 
I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
Id seen a report that had been prepared by a manufacturers technician as to whether the 
car had an inherent fault. And while I appreciated Mr Ws frustration that this report hadnt 
been shared with him, he was aware that no defect had been found that would have led to 
the fire when the car had been used to jump-start the other vehicle. I also hadnt seen that 
Mr W was relying on the car being faulty when raising there had been a breach of contract 
here. So, looking at the evidence that has been provided, I was satisfied the car had been of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. This meant I needed to look at whether the car had 
been mis-sold to Mr W. 
Mr W said he hadnt wanted hybrid technology and if hed been aware this car had MHEV he wouldnt have acquired it. He also said that as he had been unaware the engine was hybrid; 
he hadnt known that by using it to jump start the other car would result in the engine fire.
I didnt know what had been said by the salesperson to Mr W about the cars engine. Due to 
covid I thought there would have been limited contact with the dealership. I didnt think Mr W 
had said he had been given assurances that there was no hybrid technology involved with 
the car. He said that he thought it was a diesel engine due to the description of the car on 
the paperwork. I therefore didnt think I had enough evidence to say there had been a 
deliberate misleading of Mr W by any salesperson about the cars engine technology. Mr Ws 
complaint was that this information had been omitted and he was unaware of it.
I also hadnt seen any evidence to suggest this car had been recommended to Mr W by the 
salesperson. So, I thought it was reasonable to have expected Mr W to have undertaken 
some research that this car was suitable for his needs particularly as the opportunity to ask 
questions or have a face to face discussion about the car appeared to have been limited.
As I hadnt seen that Mr W said there had been detailed conversations about the car and its 
features prior to his agreement to acquire it with the salesperson, then I thought in these 
circumstances it was reasonable to consider Mr W had chosen the car. Mr W had been 
satisfied the car was what hed wanted.
Mr W disagreed with our investigators view that the website set out that all the models of car 
that hed acquired come with the MHEV. He said the car hed acquired had a different spec 
and a substantially higher price tag than the standard model. But looking at the website, Id 
seen that this stated all models of this car come with this feature, so although this wasnt 
separately set out on the page dealing with this particular model, I thought the information as 
to this engine being mildly hybrid was sufficiently clear. It was also a feature that was set out 
in various reviews of this model of car.
As this type of engine was in fact standard for the various models, I wasnt surprised it hadnt 
been set out in the paperwork though I agreed with our investigators view that it would have 
been helpful to have been shown.
Mr W said that the omission to set out the car had the mild hybrid technology amounted to a 
breach of both The Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) 
Regulations 2013 section 10 and The Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 
2008 section 6. That was the omission to specify the car was MHEV amounted to a failure to 
disclose the main characteristics or provide material information about the car. However, I 
disagreed, and I explained why.
I thought there was a significant difference between a hybrid and a mild hybrid car. A mild 
hybrid car only uses its electric motors to support the engine during acceleration and cruising 
so unlike a hybrid car doesnt power the car on its own. The mild hybrid technology assists 
with fuel consumption and emissions. I didnt think the MHEV technology was a main 
characteristic of the car nor was it necessarily material information. However, even if I was 
wrong on my view I still thought, in these circumstances, it was for Mr W to have looked into 
whether the car was suitable for him. Therefore, on the evidence Id seen, I didnt think the 
car had been mis-sold to Mr W.
Id seen that when Mr W received the logbook a few days after acquiring the car, it was 
shown as MHEV in its description. Mr W hadnt queried this at the time and the issue of the 
car being MHEV hadnt been raised by him until the fire had occurred in September 2021. I 
appreciated Mr W said he wasnt aware of the car having this technology, but I thought it 
was reasonable to have expected him to check that the description of the car had been accurate in the logbook. And although MHEV was the abbreviation of mild hybrid electric 
vehicle this could have been very easily checked as to its meaning. I thought it would have 
been reasonable to say Mr W should have been aware the car had this technology prior to 
agreeing to jump-start his friends vehicle.
Looking at the cars manual, it set out clearly that the instructions were in relation to the car 
itself being jump-started and not using it to jump start another. I thought that in the 
circumstances it would have been reasonable for Mr W to have double-checked this was 
something he could do without risking damage to the engine.
So, for the reasons set out above, I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
AFS has agreed with my provisional decision. Mr W hasnt asked me to reconsider any parts 
of my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I havent been asked to reconsider my provisional decision I have looked again at 
my conclusions and the reasons that I reached them. I havent changed my view.
I still think its fair to say that Mr W had chosen this car as being suitable for him and that it 
hadnt been mis-sold to him by the salesperson. There doesnt appear to have been 
discussions with the salesperson as to the cars features and/or engine type and no 
assurances were given that the engine was diesel only. 
I also think its fair to say that in the circumstances in which Mr W selected this car and 
entered into the credit agreement, that its reasonable to have expected him to do his own 
research as to whether this car fitted his needs. The manufacturers website sets out that all 
models of this car came with a MHEV engine as did the reviews. I think it would have been 
straight forward for Mr W to have been able to find out about cars engine before making any 
decision to acquire it. I dont agree that material information about the car wasnt provided to 
him before he entered into the credit agreement.
Although I appreciate Mr Ws distress at the damage to the car that occurred as a result of 
the fire, this fire hadnt resulted from a fault with the cars engine. It was due to the car being 
unsuitable to be used to jump start another car. And, looking at the manual, I think it would 
have been reasonable to have expected Mr W to have checked first that jump starting 
another car wouldnt result in damage to the engine.
So, although I am sorry to disappoint Mr W, for the reasons given, Im not upholding his 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman