DRN-2952894
The complaint
Mr R complains about the settlement esure Insurance Limited has offered him following a 
claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
Following a road traffic collision, Mr R made a claim on his car insurance. esure declared   
Mr Rs car a total loss. But esure says Mr R had previously under-declared his annual 
mileage. It says his premium wouldve been higher had it known what his actual mileage was 
likely to be. So its proportionately reduced the settlement amount its offered Mr R for the 
loss of his car. 
Mr R is unhappy with esures offer. He says the cars mileage was boosted by family 
members other than himself and his named drivers using the car  and he doesnt think 
esure should take this other usage into account. Mr R also doesn't understand how esure 
can calculate the annual mileage for his current period of insurance when the policy was 
only renewed a few weeks before the road traffic collision.
When esure didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint, he came to us. The investigator who looked at 
Mr Rs complaint didnt uphold it, saying esure had acted fairly when calculating the
settlement of Mr Rs claim.
Mr R disagrees and so his complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Rs policy has a term saying he must tell esure if there are any changes to the 
information hes provided. And it gives as a specific example changes to his cars annual 
mileage. The policy also says it will re-assess Mr Rs cover in the light of any changes  
which, among other things, it says could lead to his premium changing.
esure says when Mr R first took out his policy, he declared his annual mileage as 1,500. And 
it says when Mr R renewed his policy, he didnt change this information. So it says Mr Rs 
premiums were based on the car being driven between 1,001 to 2,000 miles each year. 
Following the collision, esure did some calculations and said the mileage for Mr Rs car for 
the insurance year in which he claimed was likely to have been between 6,000 and 7,000 
miles a year. esure has given us its underwriting guidance which shows that, had Mr R 
declared this as his likely mileage, it wouldve charged him a proportionately higher premium 
when he renewed his car insurance. esure says because Mr R didnt pay the correct 
premium for the cars annual mileage when he renewed his insurance, its entitled to reduce 
Mr Rs settlement proportionately. 
 
Mr R says he declared a mileage of 4,500 a year when he first took the policy out. But, 
understandably, Mr R hasnt been able to give us any evidence to support his statement.   
Mr Rs policy schedule shows an annual estimated mileage of between 1,001 to 2,000. And 
Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr R queried this with esure after he got his policy documents 
or asked it to change these details. So, although I know this isnt how Mr R remembers 
things, I think its more likely than not he initially declared the annual mileage as 1,500. 
Mr R says his cars mileage over recent times has increased because other family members 
 in addition to those named on his policy  have used the car. He thinks esure should only 
take into account his and his named drivers mileage when looking at whether hes paid the 
correct premium for his car insurance and at how much to settle his claim for. 
I dont agree. esure says Mr R first took out his policy via a price comparison site. Its sent us 
a screenshot of the question Mr R was asked then about his mileage: How many personal 
miles does your car [my emphasis] do a year? Theres an icon offering help to answer this 
question. This says (among other things): Were after the number of miles we think your 
car [my emphasis] will do over the next year.
So when Mr R took the policy out, I think its clear he was asked to declare the mileage for 
the car itself  not just the mileage for those drivers (including himself) named on his policy 
when they drove the car. It follows that I think it was fair and reasonable for esure to assess 
the mileage the car had done  and not just that of Mr R and his named drivers  when 
looking at whether Mr R had paid the correct premium for his car insurance.
At this point I should say that, in offering Mr R car insurance, esure will have undertaken a 
risk assessment of how likely it was Mr R would make a claim and what it might have to pay 
out of he did. esure will have looked at many things when calculating that risk. One of them 
is the miles the car was likely to travel. And, generally, cars with a higher annual mileage are 
seen by insurers as being a higher risk, because the more time a car spends on the road the 
more likely it is to be involved in an accident. So I think its both standard practice and fair 
and reasonable of esure to ask Mr R  as it does in his policy document  to tell it if the 
information hed previously given about his mileage was going to change. 
And esure had also highlighted to Mr R the importance generally of keeping his information 
up-to-date, when he came to renew his car insurance. For example, in his 2019 renewal 
invitation, esure says: 
Check the information on your Schedule. As your circumstances can change, renewal is a 
good time to check your cover is still suitable. Contact us to add or remove any optional 
benefits or if any part of the Schedule is wrong, so we can change it for you. You are 
required to take reasonable care that this information is true and complete, now and 
throughout the year, otherwise your policy may be invalid or your claim may be rejected or
reduced.
All in all, I think Mr R had a duty to take reasonable care to inform esure if he thought his 
cars mileage would change from what hed previously declared. At the date of the cars 
previous MOT, its mileage was just over 30,000. Eight months later, at the time of the claim, 
it was just over 37,000.  So, in an eight-month period, the car had done significantly more 
miles than Mr R had told esure it would do in a year. But Mr R didnt inform esure that his 
mileage would be exceeded when it became apparent to him. So I think he failed to take 
reasonable care to keep esure updated on this. 
In these circumstances, I think it was reasonable for esure to look at the mileage Mr Rs car 
had done from the date of its last MOT to the date of the collision and to calculate, as it did, a likely annual mileage based on those figures for the policy year in which he made the claim 
 even though hed only recently renewed his policy. 
If Mr R had told esure about his likely annual mileage, esure says it wouldve charged him a 
proportionately higher premium when he renewed his policy. esure has given us information 
showing Mr R actually paid 77.76% of the correct premium and so it has limited its 
settlement of his claim to that percentage (as set against the overall settlement figure).
On the facts and information I have on this complaint, I think its fair and reasonable for 
esure to settle Mr Rs claim on this proportionate basis.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman