DRN-3756605
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as D, complains that Cater Allen Limited trading as Cater Allen 
Private Bank wont refund money it lost to a scam.
Mr J, who is a director of D, brings the complaint on Ds behalf.
Background
Mr J explained that in July 2020 he made a payment of £1,800 (€2028.84) to what he 
understood to be a business that could provide tax advice. Mr J explained hed conducted 
due diligence on the business before sending funds, including having conversations by 
phone with the firm, attending online seminars it held and also asking for feedback from 
other customers who had already engaged their services. 
In September 2020, Mr J received notification that the business hed paid was closing with 
immediate effect  Mr J never having received the services hed paid for. Since the event 
occurred, further evidence has come to light that supports the position that the business Mr J 
paid was actually a scam and has been treated as such by relevant Services. 
In October 2020, Mr J contacted his bank, Cater Allen, from which hed made the payment, 
to raise a fraud claim. Cater Allen didnt consider it was liable to reimburse D, as Mr J had 
authorised the transaction from the account. Cater Allen contacted the beneficiary bank 
provider to raise a claim on behalf of D, but unfortunately was unable to recover any funds. 
However, Cater Allen acknowledged it ought to have communicated more efficiently with D, 
and so offered £50 in compensation to acknowledge this, which D declined.
Unhappy with Cater Allens response, Mr J brought the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She didnt consider the payment 
made from Ds account was covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, 
as Ds account wasnt GBP-denominated (a requirement set out within the Code). She also 
didnt think the faster payment Mr J made was so unusual for the account that Cater Allen 
ought to have intervened before allowing it to be processed. The investigator was also 
satisfied that once Cater Allen was made aware of the scam, it took reasonable steps to 
recover Ds funds.
Mr J disagreed. In summary:
Mr J said the payment debited Ds account in Euros, but the end transaction to the 
fraudster was executed in sterling. He therefore considers the CRM Code does 
apply. Mr J considers that if the Code doesnt apply, this isnt immediately obvious 
and should be more clearly highlighted by Cater Allen on its website.
Mr J disagreed that Cater Allen had taken necessary steps to avoid this scam from 
taking place. He said the fraudster was operating his business through a private 
account and fraudulently charging VAT. 
Mr J referred to other victims of the fraudster who had received a refund from their 
complaints in similar circumstances.
As Mr J disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been referred to me for 
a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which Cater Allen has signed up to. Under the 
CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is the victim 
of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in 
the circumstances for the payment D made and, in particular, whether Cater Allen ought to 
reimburse it under the provisions of the Code. 
But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. Section DS2(1) of 
the code states:
 This Code applies to Customers undertaking Payment Journeys as defined in DS1(2)(k): 
(a) Between GBP-denominated UK-domiciled accounts, by any channel of push 
payment available to the Customer, such as in branch, on the phone, or online.
As Ds account wasnt GBP-denominated, despite how the fraudulent payment may have 
been received into the fraudsters account, I therefore dont think Cater Allen is responsible 
for reimbursing D because of any obligation under the CRM Code. I appreciate Mr J thinks 
Cater Allen should display this information more prominently, but theres no requirement for 
it to do so. The exclusion is set out by the Code and not by Cater Allen, so I wouldnt expect 
Cater Allen to further set out explicitly what payments will and wont be covered  this is the 
basis for the Code itself. 
Ive therefore considered other obligations Cater Allen had to its customers and whether it 
should be responsible for reimbursing D for any other reasons.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. Mr J accepts he willingly made the 
faster payment himself. This means that at the time he sent the money, he authorised the 
payment and wanted it to be made. Although he did not intend for the money to go to a 
fraudster, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 which apply to the payment he 
made, and the general terms and conditions of bank accounts, D is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance. 
But, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, any relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Cater Allen should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Cater Allen should have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. 
Cater Allen did not identify the transfer D made as being suspicious at the time it was made. 
Ive looked carefully at Ds account statements for around six months in the lead up to the 
scam to get a clear understanding of how its accounts typically ran. Having done so I can 
see the payment made wasnt unusual in value compared to other payments made from the 
account, some of which were significantly higher. The fraudulent transfer also didnt leave 
less money in Ds account than was usually available to it. I therefore dont consider there 
was anything about the payment that ought to have raised concern with Cater Allen that D 
may be falling victim to financial harm from fraud.
Ive considered Mr Js comments about the running of the beneficiary account but they do 
not persuade me to reach a different opinion on this point. While there may have been 
underhand business tactics in play by the fraudster, I dont think its information Cater Allen 
would have been privy to when processing a payment - and I wouldnt expect Cater Allen to 
have raised further questions without already having reasons to be suspicious. 
Mr J has raised that other victims of this same scam have been reimbursed. Each case is 
reviewed on its own merits and - as can be seen from my decision  elements such as the 
individual consumers circumstances and how payments from their account were made all 
play a part in how the complaint is considered. It therefore wouldnt be the case that all 
victims of the same scam would necessarily receive the same outcome to their complaint.
Cater Allens internal notes state it contacted the beneficiary bank provider the same day Mr 
J reported the scam to attempt to recover any remaining funds, but unfortunately, was 
unsuccessful. As this is contemporaneous evidence, Im persuaded Cater Allen did all it 
reasonably could to recover Ds funds once it was aware of the scam.
I have considerable sympathy for what has happened here to D  and its not in question 
that D has been the victim of a scam. But overall, I dont think Cater Allen treated D unfairly 
when it concluded that it was not responsible for refunding the money it had lost. For the 
reasons I have explained, Im satisfied that Cater Allen doesnt have any obligation to refund 
any of the money D lost under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there are other grounds on 
which I could say that Cater Allen should, fairly and reasonably, bear the responsibility for 
Ds loss.
I understand Cater Allen has offered £50 compensation to D for its inefficient communication 
following the scam, but this hasnt yet been paid. I think this is fair compensation to 
acknowledge the errors Cater Allen made and that this should now be paid to D, should he 
accept this decision.My final decision
My final decision is to not uphold Ds complaint against Cater Allen Limited trading as Cater 
Allen Private Bank. Cater Allen Private Bank should now pay the £50 compensation 
previously offered, should D accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman