DRN-3157348
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with AWP P&C SAs (Allianz) decision to decline their claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A have travel insurance as part of their packaged bank account. They made a 
claim on their policy for service charges related to their mobile home in France. These fees 
related to the annual cost of keeping their mobile home on the site. Mr and Mrs A were due 
to travel to the mobile home twice in 2020 but were unable owing to government restrictions 
because of COVID-19. Mr and Mrs A would like the insurer to pay their claim. 
Allianz said it declined the claim because the policy doesnt cover this type of cost. Our 
investigator agreed. She said that although theres cover for accommodation costs within the 
policy terms, Mr and Mrs As claim didnt fit within the scope of that clause because their 
claim was for service-related charges.
Mr and Mrs A, unhappy with that, asked for an ombudsman to take a look at their case. They 
said their claim should be covered because the policy term is broad enough to include costs 
related to their mobile home. And so, its for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are the same as 
those already explained by our investigator. Im not persuaded by the arguments put forward 
by Mr and Mrs A because theres no cover available under this policy. The ground rent 
wouldve always been payable, despite whether they visited the mobile home. This claim 
relates to a contractual cost for a piece of land, rather than accommodation, so Im satisfied 
it doesnt fall within the scope of cover. Ill explain why. 
The policy terms say under cancellation and curtailment;
Claims conditions
In addition to anything mentioned in the general conditions, the Insurer will only pay:
1. For travel and Accommodation expenses, which the Beneficiary has pre-paid or
contracted to pay, at the time they realise a claim may be made.
And;
Accommodation means any hotel room, apartment, villa, etc, but excludes the provision of 
food, drink, telephone calls, newspapers etc.
Im satisfied the terms dont provide cover in the circumstances because the costs dont 
relate specifically to the rental of the mobile home itself. The mobile home, for the purposes 
of this complaint, is an entity in its own right. The ground, upon which it sits, is also separate. 
Should Mr and Mrs As claim have been that theyd rented the mobile home and been 
unable to go, then this could potentially have satisfied the term. But thats not what theyre 
claiming for. The costs theyre claiming are related to the ground rent  which Im satisfied 
doesnt fit with the definition of accommodation, and therefore doesnt fall within the scope of 
this policy.  
I note the policy wouldve likely covered Mr and Mrs As pre-booked travel arrangements to 
the mobile home, but they were able to retrieve those costs through other avenues. 
And so, because theres no cover available for ground rent or service charges Allianz didnt 
make a mistake by declining their claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman