DRN-3029255
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2001 with a 
loan repayable over a 36-month term. Mr E says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him 
PPI with the loan.
What happened
Im sorry this case has been outstanding for a while. Our most recent adjudicators view was 
that they didnt think we should uphold the complaint. 
Mr Es representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Es. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Es complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr E. 
The records show the loan and PPI were originally arranged over the phone with Mr E then 
sent documents to check and sign. I think Nationwide made it clear enough that Mr E didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out. I say this because Ive been sent a 
copy of the original loan agreement. The information contained on this would have been 
based on the discussion hed previously had with Nationwide and I see he signed and 
returned that document to agree to the conditions of the lending. 
I note that the agreement described the PPI as Optional Credit Insurance. Being described 
in this way, I think Mr E would have been able to see this wasnt something that he needed 
to have; he would have known that optional meant he had a choice. And because he 
signed the agreement and returned it, I think Nationwide properly obtained his consent to 
add PPI to the loan.
Nationwide didnt advise Mr E in the course of him getting the PPI, so it was for him to 
decide whether or not he wanted or needed this type of cover. Nationwides duty was to 
provide enough clear information for Mr E to make an informed decision.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave to Mr E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. I dont have a recording of the call, however, I see the cost of the PPI was 
set out on the agreement, as was both who and what was covered. The interest amounts 
were also shown and the loan and the PPI costs were individually broken down for him to 
see. Also, as Ive said above, I think hed have had a telephone discussion preceding this, so 
I therefore think its much more likely that Mr E had enough information on which to decide if 
PPI was something he wanted to add.
Mr Es representative said that his self-employment would have made claiming on the policy 
quite difficult. But I dont think there were onerous conditions for self-employed people 
contained in this policys rules  I think hed have been able to claim in a similar way to an 
employed person.
His representative also implied that Mr E had a medical history  a heart murmur - which 
might have meant he was unable to claim for under the policy rules. Ive carefully looked into 
this issue and note whats been said about him having such a condition in or around 1997.
Id like to make clear that I certainly dont doubt Mr Es health in this regard was, at some 
point, a concern for him. However, his representative sent in only very vague details about 
this matter. And as hes represented by a claims management company, Id have expected 
to see a more comprehensive description of this condition, together with some evidence 
supporting the claim. In any event, I note the condition alleged pre-dates the PPI sale by four 
years and theres nothing which coherently describes the outcome of the investigation that 
took place, or whether this medical condition persisted beyond an initial concern. Mr E 
himself seems to have said the matter was dealt with fairly swiftly from what Ive seen. So 
Ive been sent nothing that shows Mr E would have thought, by 2001, that potentially 
needing to claim for this medical condition would be likely. I was also shown a life insurance 
application Mr E filled out in 2002. In the questionnaire accompanying this, I see that he 
declared he hadnt needed to visit a doctor (other than for minor ailments) in the previous 
two years. He also declared hed not had any heart problems or heart disease.
As I say, none of this is to imply that Mr E never had health issues that were of concern. But 
the case put forward on his behalf is, in my view, both weak and somewhat contradictory. So 
I dont think the PPI policys pre-existing health exclusions would have mattered to such a 
degree as to cause him to change what we now know he eventually did  i.e. take out a PPI 
policy to cover his new loan. In that sense, Ive seen nothing showing the PPI was 
fundamentally wrong for Mr E, or too dissimilar to what he reasonably would have thought he 
was buying, from the information he was most likely given at the point of sale. The PPI cover 
lasted for the same length of time as his loan and it could have made the repayments for him 
should he have needed to make a successful claim. There was nothing suggesting he might 
need to cash in the loan (and therefore the PPI too) early.
Because of all this I dont think theres reliable evidence showing Mr E would have declined 
the PPI cover, even if I accept Nationwide might well have a better job at explaining things. 
Mr Es representative also raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.But Mr Es representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Es individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Es particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Nationwide doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman