DRN-3606564
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the advice he received from Santander UK Plc (Santander) to 
invest into an investment bond.
Mr G is represented by a third party but for ease of reference Ill refer to Mr G in my 
decision.
While the complaint has been brought by Mr G, Mrs G later signed the complaint form and I 
have referred to her in my decision when necessary. 
What happened
In 2006 Mr G was advised to invest £57,500 into an investment bond upon the advice of 
Santander. The investment was made in April 2007. The funds were invested equally into 
the Distribution, Managed and Property funds. Mr G sold the investment bond in September 
2011 for £58,434.
Mr G says the investment was too high risk for him as an inexperienced investor and 
complained to Santander about the advice he had been given. 
Santander didnt think the complaint had been brought to this service within the time limits 
that apply  six years after the advice was given or three years after the customer should 
have reasonably been aware of cause for complaint. Our investigator who considered the 
jurisdiction time limits of the complaint and concluded it was a complaint the Financial 
Ombudsman could consider. Santander agreed.
After considering the merits of the complaint the investigator didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He said;
Without any evidence to the contrary the investigator wasnt able to agree the 
investment or risks werent discussed with Mr G or that he didnt understand what he 
was investing in. 
Santander wasnt able to provide the fund fact sheets from the time of the sale in 
order to determine how the assets were split and the investigator didnt think it was 
fair to make a finding based on current information about the funds.
He was unable to conclude the investments exceeded Mr Gs medium attitude to risk. 
There was insufficient evidence to suggest the investment was unaffordable or 
representented too much of Mr Gs available capital.
Mr G didnt agree;
He was a novice investor and it was likely that the adviser sold him the benefit of the 
investment and he simply agreed.
The current day asset exposure of the funds was likely to be similar to that in 2006/7. 
The fact Mr G kept the investment to term didnt mean it was suitable. And Mr G, 
along with his wife, had been considering the possibility of gifting some funds to their 
son which would have reduced Mr Gs free assets further. They also had to use 
£7,000 of their cash to repay a mortgage shortfall. The investments made were 
heavilty weighted towards property which could be illiquid.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Circumstances
Santander has limited information from the time of the sale which I dont find suprising given 
the time since the sale and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. But it has 
been able to give us a copy of the Fact Find document completed at the time. Ive used    
Mr Gs testimony and this document to consider his circumstances. 
Mr G met with Santander in January and August 2006 along with his wife, and a Fact Find 
session was held and recorded. 
Mr and Mrs G owned their own poperty valued at around £275,000 with an outstanding 
mortgage of £36,669 with a remaining term of one year. Its recorded that Mr and Mrs G 
didnt want to use their savings to repay the outstanding mortage which was to be covered 
by endowment policies but with potential of a shortfall of £7,000. Mr and Mrs G were to 
repay this out of capital if the shortfall remained at the the end of the mortgage term. Mr G 
had recently retired at the age of 57 years as a result of voluntary redundancy. 
Between them Mr and Mrs G had a total annual income of £27,000  £12,000 being Mr Gs 
pension and an estimated joint monthly surplus income of £740. Its recorded that Mrs G was 
also to take voluntray redundancy in the November and likely to receive a payout of £58,000. 
Mr G was looking to invest for growth at the outset with the potential to switch to income in 
the future but not for the next year. Between them Mr and Mrs G had £141,500 in an instant 
access account and Mr G a further £7,000 in premium bonds. Mrs G had an OEIC valued at 
around £15,000 which was an employee sharesave scheme. Mr G has said that of cash held 
he received £54,000 as a pension lump sum and a redundancy payment of around £30,000. 
Mr and Mrs G were undecided at the time whether to gift some money to their son as they 
wanted access to their capital for growth. 
Both Mr and Mrs G were recorded as being medium risk investors and for a period of five 
plus years. As a result of the advice Mr G proceeded with the investments that were 
recommended. 
Attitude to risk
For this investment, Mr Gs attitude to risk was recorded as being medium. I have 
considered how this came about and how Santander made him aware of the varying levels 
of risk implicit in diffferent investments, particularly bearing in mind he was a novice investor. 
Mr G was seeking advice because he, and Mrs G, didnt have the knowledge or experience 
to make such an investment decision unaided. So Santander needs to demonstrate that it 
gave suitable advice taking into account Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances, understanding and 
knowledge after ascertaining Mr Gs attitude to risk. Because of the lack of documentary evidence that is available, Im not convinced that 
Santander has been able to show us how it came to the conclusion that Mr G was a mediuim 
risk investor, but overall, I think this was most likely discussed and agreed. Even though I 
dont have evidence that the risk of investing was explained to Mr G  after taking into 
account his ability to understand investment risk and clarification of his experience or 
knowledge to understand the risk involved  I think he reasonably understood the risk of the 
investments. 
I say this partly because its recorded in the Fact Find that;
Happy to both invest into medium and low risk areas. Likes the idea of a spread of 
asset  props and sc bonds and cash in both low and medium risk. Like the idea of a 
fund that gives access to overseas and to give a global portfolio. Likes the idea of the 
property fund as limited property in distribution and managed fund  by doing a 
separate prop fund it gives property a more equal footing in the portfolio.
Mr G has said that he was just agreeing to the advice that was given but equally I think this 
suggests there was a discussion about the types of investment that were available plus the 
idea of a diversified portfolio. And I note that in bringing his complaint Mr G said that he was 
aware the value of the investment could go up and down. To me, this indicates that risk was 
explained to Mr G and that as a result Mr G was aware that his investments might fluctuate 
and he might not achieve the rate of growth return he would have wanted. 
Clearly I cant know what was said at the meetings but the Fact Find records that keyfacts 
documents were issued and I dont think its unreasonable to assume would likely have been 
discussed with Mr G and which would have highlighted the risk ratings of the individual 
funds. 
So taking all of this into account, I think the levels of risk implicit in investing were explained 
to and discussed with Mr G and he was content to expose his investment money to a 
medium level of risk for a portion of his available assets in order to achieve the potential of 
capital growth over the medium to long term.  
The advice
While Im satisfied it was most likely the case that Mr Gs attitude to risk was assessed by 
the adviser  even though it was only as far as was recorded in the fact find and theres no 
evidence of how Mr Gs attitude to risk was actually assessed  Ive considered whether 
what was recommended to him was right for his circumstances and financial objectives. 
As Ive said above, without any investment experience Mr G would have been totally reliant 
upon the advice given to him. And Ive borne in mind what hed done previously with his 
money  by putting it in a risk-free environment of a savings account and premium bonds. 
And Mr G has argued that as a first-time investor a medium risk investment was too high a 
risk for him. But Ive seen nothing to conclude this was the case. As mentioned above its 
recorded that Mr Gs investment objective was for the potential for capital growth so it seems 
likely that Mr G did want to explore the opportunity to make his money grow more than it 
would do in his bank account and premium bonds. Taking everything into consideration Im 
persuaded it was more likely that Mr G was willing to take some risk with his money.
Ive also thought about Mr Gs personal circumstances as he had recently taken voluntary 
redundancy, and retired, as a result of which he had received a lump sum and which Ive not 
seen any evidence that he had experience of handling such an amount before. Its recorded 
that Mr G wanted growth with the potential to later switch to income producing investments  which I think is understandable given the lump sum payment and his circumstances as he 
was to be reliant on his pension income in the future. 
Mr G had received a total redundancy/pension package of £84,000 so the investment 
represented just over 68% of his total funds he received after leaving his employment. But 
over and above the £84,000 there was a further £57,500 in the joint account as well plus 
£7,000 Mr G held in premium bonds and £15,000 Mrs G had in an employee sharesave 
scheme. So considering the assets overall, I dont think the investment amount was 
excessive. 
Mr G has said he was overexposed to property which can be illiquid. One of the funds was 
the property fund itself (which I note was switched into the equity and international funds a 
year later) and he said the other two funds also held property. There was also the risk of 
currency fluctuation because the managed and distribution funds had exposure to overseas 
investments. 
The fund sheets from the time of the sale arent available in order for me to consider the 
assets held. But its inevitable that the property fund was mainly invested in property and the 
other two funds could also have had exposure as well. And equally I would expect some sort 
of currency risk exposure from overseas investments. However Ive seen nothing to make 
me think these investments exposed Mr G to a higher risk than medium and the split 
between the three funds would suggest the porfolio was sufficiently diversified which can 
mitigate the risks of exposure to any particular sector or geographical area. 
Ive also taken into account that Mrs G was to take redundancy in November and the impact 
that would have had on their joint inome. But I note from the Fact Find that Mr and Mrs G 
wanted to discuss Mrs Gs expected payment when it was received so they could add to    
Mr Gs investment choices if they wanted to. This suggests to me that at the time they had 
no concerns about income after Mrs G took the redundancy and were looking for capital 
growth rather than income.  
As Ive said I think its more likely Mr G was given sufficient information for him to be aware 
of the varying levels of risk and potential rewards implicit in different types of stock market 
investments. So, Im satisfied he was made aware of the alternatives that were available to 
him. And Mr and Mrs G had two meetings with Santanders representatives so had an 
additional opportunity prior to investing to discuss any concerns they may have had. 
However, I do appreciate that there were probably lower than medium risk options available 
to Mr G at the time that could have potentially offered him better returns than savings. But 
my role isnt to re-visit the advice that he was given and what other options were potentially 
available to him. Rather its to consider whether the advice that was given to Mr G was 
suitable for him at the time and as identified prior to the investment and whether it was 
sufficiently explained to him. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, and in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont have anything to conclude that the advice given to Mr G was unsuitable for 
him bearing in mind his personal and financial circumstances, his attitude to risk and his 
investment requirements. It follows that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
No doubt Mr G will be disappointed with my conclusion, but I hope I have been able to 
explain how and why I have reached it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman