DRN-4055763
The complaint
Mrs M complains that esure Insurance Limited declined her claim on her motor insurance 
policy following an accident. She wants it to pay her claim and associated costs. 
What happened
Mrs Ms car was damaged in an accident whilst abroad. esure declined her claim as it said 
she hadnt bought the required extra add-on for comprehensive cover for foreign travel. But 
Mrs M said her online account showed that she was covered. And she said she hadnt 
received her policy booklet. She said if shed known that she wasnt fully covered for travel 
abroad, then she would have paid for it. Mrs M was also unhappy that she had long call wait 
times. esure offered her £50 compensation for this. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
online portal and the policy booklet made it clear that the policy only provided for third party 
cover whilst abroad unless extra was paid for comprehensive cover and a Green Card. He 
thought Mrs M had received her policy booklet. And he thought esures compensation for the 
call wait times was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs M replied asking for an Ombudsmans review. She said the summary screen of her 
online account wasnt clear, and she hadnt received the current years policy booklet. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs M feels frustrated that her claim was declined. Fortunately, her 
family wasnt injured in the accident. But she now has to bear the costs of recovering and 
repairing her car, and the costs of alternative transport whilst this was done. 
As Mrs M knows, her insurer has a responsibility to responsibility to provide clear, fair and 
not misleading information to policyholders. So, like the Investigator, Ive looked at the 
information esure provided Mrs M when she bought her policy. 
Mrs M provided a screenshot of her online account which provides a summary of whats 
covered. This includes, amongst other items, European Travel Cover, Yes. But next to this 
is an i for further information. When this is hovered over, it states that the cover is third 
party only. So Im satisfied that this was sufficiently clear and not mis-leading on the 
summary screen. 
I think this is a common term and condition in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it 
unusual or unreasonable. But it is significant, and I would expect it to be set out in the policy 
wording and in the summary document. 
Mrs M said she didnt receive her current policy booklet which would have provided her with 
further information about her cover whilst abroad. 
But I can see that her online account was active. And esure has provided a screenshot of 
the documents it sent to the account when the policy renewed. These included the policy 
booklet as well as other documents. 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) explains under Where am I covered?
Comprehensive cover: In the UK, the Isle of Mon and the Channel Islands, and during sea 
journeys between these islands
Minimum cover required by law (usually equivalent to Third Party only cover) within any 
country which is a member of the European Union
The policy schedule states:
"Cover is only in force if: - The car is being driven in the UK, the Isle of Man or the 
Channel Islands
The policy booklet on page 18, under Section 6 "Territorial limits and use abroad states:
The cover under Sections 1 - 5 of your policy operates in the UK, the Isle of Man and the 
Channel Islands and during sea journeys between these constituent parts.
You also have the minimum cover you need by law to use your car in:
 any country which is a member of the European Union
This may provide less cover than you have in the UK and is usually equivalent to the third 
party only cover available in the UK with no cover for damage to your car.
You dont need a Green Card to drive abroad within the countries above. Your Certificate of 
Insurance includes international cover for a maximum of 90 days in a single period of cover 
on a third party basis only.
The policy booklet then explains that a further premium is needed for an extension of the 
policy for European travel and to provide a Green Card (international motor insurance 
certificate) for 90 days in the policy year. 
Mrs M was also provided with policy booklets in previous years and hadnt taken out a Green 
Card. So Im satisfied that Mrs M was provided with sufficient information about her policy to 
ensure that it met her needs. 
I think the information was clear, fair and wasnt misleading. So Im satisfied that Mrs M 
wasnt treated unfairly when esure declined her claim as she had only third party cover whilst 
abroad.
esure paid Mrs M £50 compensation for her long call waits. Im satisfied that this was fair 
and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance when some inconvenience 
has been caused. I dont require esure to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman