DRN-4030652
The complaint
Mr R complains that Creation Financial Services Limited {CFS} werent able to process a 
payment to his credit card account and that when he asked to speak to a manager the agent 
didnt connect him to a manager.
What happened
Mr R called CFS to tell them that hed attempted to make a payment on his credit card 
account on-line, but this had been unsuccessful. CFS attempted to take the payment over 
the telephone, but it was declined. CFS advised Mr R to speak with his bank, but Mr R said 
hed already done so and was told there was no problem with his bank account. Mr R asked 
to speak with a manager at CFS and was told a manager would call him back within 48 
hours. When Mr R asked for a complaint to be raised, he was told one wouldnt be raised 
and he should await a call back from a manager. Mr R then complained about the rudeness 
of the agent on the call and this complaint was recorded.
CFS didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint and explained hat it had no reported system problems 
when Mr R was attempting to make his payment and that his bank had declined the 
payment. CFS confirmed that the call back time for a manager was 48 hours and that 
although the agent had confirmed this it didnt believe the agent was intentionally rude.  
Mr R brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that CFS had reasonably referred 
Mr R back to his own bank about the payment and that it was reasonable for the agent to 
arrange a call back from a manager. The Investigator thought the assistance offered by the 
agent at the time was reasonable.
Mr R asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can confirm that Ive listened to the telephone call Mr R made to CFS about his payment 
and in which he raised his complaint. However, although I appreciate Mr R will be 
disappointed, Ive decided that CFS didnt do anything significantly wrong. I will now explain 
why.
It's not disputed that Mr R tried to pay his credit card on-line, but the payments were 
unsuccessful. When Mr R called CFS the agent checked to see if there were any payments 
pending, and when she saw there were none, she tried to take the payment over the 
telephone, but it was declined. The agent explained to Mr R that he should contact his bank 
again as it was his bank that needed to authorise the payment. I can appreciate how 
frustrating this must have been for Mr R, especially as the deadline for the payment to be 
made was imminent. However, I think it was reasonable for CFS to refer Mr R back to his 
bank as it was his bank that declined the payment - CFS wouldnt be able to take a payment 
or explain why Mr Rs bank had declined it. Regardless of whether Mr R had been able to 
speak to a manager at the time, I think its more likely than not CFS couldnt have collected a 
payment from Mr R as, by this time, a payment had been declined on several occasions. 
When Mr R told the agent he wanted to speak to a manager about CFS not being able to 
collect a payment, the agent said she would arrange for a manager to call him back within 48 
hours. Mr R believes this to be unreasonable, but I dont think the agent acted unreasonably 
in explaining this is CFSs process. It wasnt that Mr R was refused access to a manager - he 
was told a manager would call him back within 48 hours. In the same call, there were times 
when the agent and Mr R were talking at the same time, but I dont think this is enough for 
me to decide the agent acted unreasonably or that she was rude. Indeed, when Mr R said he 
wanted to complain about the behaviour of the agent, she confirmed shed recorded this 
complaint and also that he was unhappy a manager would call him back within 48 hours. I 
think in the circumstances of this complaint that was reasonable.
My final decision
Ive decided that Creation Financial Services Limited didnt do anything significantly wrong, 
and I havent upheld Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman