DRN-2893081
The complaint
Miss C complains that fraud was attempted on her accounts with Metro Bank PLC (Metro).
What happened
Miss C had an account with Metro. In February 2021, she got a call from fraudsters 
purporting to be from Metro. This was third such occasion since 2018.
Miss C complained  there must have been a security breach regarding her accounts at 
Metro. The caller number came through to her as being from Metro. It was only down to her 
being vigilant that she didnt disclose her account details  which is what they were after. 
She later called Metro who confirmed the call wasnt from them. But - this was causing her 
stress and worry that fraudsters had her account details.
Metro apologised and confirmed the call wasnt from Metro. They had a high level of security 
protections in place. No customer information had been leaked.
Miss C brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said she understood how distressing 
and worrying this must have been for Miss C. She listened to the call that Miss C made to 
Metro and was sure the necessary checks of her accounts were carried out. But  there 
wasnt any evidence to show that Metro were responsible for what happened  and so she 
couldnt recommend any further action from them.
Miss C asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what happened here. It must have been distressing and worrying for Miss C 
 especially as this was the third such instance of this happening to her since 2018. She 
considered that the number that came up on her phone was from Metro  and they seemed 
to know about some activity on her accounts  so it appeared a genuine call. She wanted to 
be certain that Metro werent the cause of a security breach on her accounts.
Ive seen that we have asked Metro some detailed questions about what happened here. 
And theyve assured us that there wasnt any sort of internal security breach in their systems 
or involving their staff. Theyve also told us that they have sophisticated security checks in 
place to try to prevent this type of thing taking place.
Its a sad fact that fraudsters are getting more sophisticated in trying to access customers 
bank account details  with a view to taking money from their accounts. All banks, including 
Metro, have built systems and checks to stop or reduce this  but of course, the fraudsters 
will continue to try to find ways to trick people in the way experienced by Miss C.
We arent Metros regulators  and therefore cant tell them what to do here. Our role is to 
resolve individual disputes between customers and their banks. And here  I can see that 
Metro have dealt with Miss Cs complaint about this effectively. And so  thats all we can do. 
But I want to assure Miss C that Ive seen that Metro have taken her complaint and concerns 
seriously  and continue to ensure their checks and systems are in place for dealing with 
potential fraudsters.
So  on that basis, I wont be asking Metro to do anymore here.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman