DRN-4107418
The complaint
Mr B complains Experian Limited unfairly charged him a monthly subscription fee which he 
says he wasnt aware of.
What happened
Mr B says he signed up to access his Experian credit file for free. However, Mr B said he 
then realised Experian had charged him a fee of £14.99 for around ten months. So, Mr B has 
asked Experian to refund what he paid, which he says was about £150.
Experian say Mr B renewed his membership and in doing so, he upgraded his free account 
to a fee-paying subscription service on 12 June 2022. Experian also said as Mr B had a free 
trial previously in 2015, he wasnt entitled to another free trial. So, because of this, Mr B was 
charged £14.99 immediately for the subscription service. Experian said this was explained in 
their terms and conditions which Mr B agreed to. Experian also said they couldnt find any 
evidence of Mr B cancelling his subscription with them at any point before March 2023. At 
this point, Experian said they changed Mr Bs membership back to a free account. While 
Experian didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint, they made a payment of £14.99 to him as a gesture 
of goodwill.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Bs concerns. In summary, he said the information provided 
by Experian showed that when Mr B reactivated his account, he was told hed be charged 
£14.99 and then the same amount each month after, until he cancelled the subscription. 
Therefore, as Mr B agreed to this, our Investigator didnt think Experian had done anything 
wrong.
Mr B disagreed. He said he was unaware he was being charged the £14.99 monthly fee and 
that he never used the service. Mr B said it was a genuine mistake and he cant afford to not 
have the £150 back. Mr B acknowledged emails that may have been sent by Experian but 
said sometimes these could be overlooked. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Experian have provided us with information to show Mr B previously had an account in 2015 
(where hed already had a free trial), a screenshot of what Mr B would have seen to 
reactivate his account and renew his membership. 
I can see in order to renew his membership, Mr B would have been required to provide card 
payment information. On the same screen, under the terms and conditions heading, it 
explained that Mr Bs chosen card will be debited with the monthly membership fee of 
£14.99 and every 30 days thereafter. 
Mr B would have then needed to confirm he read the terms and conditions before continuing 
to the next step of renewing his membership and agreeing to the subscription. 
Ive seen a copy of the terms and conditions that would have applied at the time Mr B 
renewed his membership in June 2022. These also say Mr B would be charged a fee for a 
paid for subscription service, until he decided to cancel it.
Having considered all of this evidence, I think Experian made it clear that they will charge 
Mr B a monthly fee every 30 days, until he decided to cancel it which happened in March 
2023. So, with this in mind, I cant say Experian acted unfairly in charging Mr B the monthly 
fee and I cant fairly require them to refund Mr B the fees he paid.
I note Mr B said he was unaware he was being charged the monthly fee and that he never 
used the service. But I dont think I can hold Experian responsible for this  as Ive explained 
I think they made the fee clear when Mr B renewed his membership and I dont think its fair 
to hold them responsible for Mr B not using the service. 
Experian have provided a screenshot which shows they sent Mr B several credit report alert 
emails while his fee-paying membership was active. While Mr B acknowledges receiving 
emails from Experian, he said sometimes these can be overlooked. I can understand Mr Bs 
point, but again, I dont think its fair to hold Experian responsible for Mr B overlooking these 
emails. Experian did as I would expect, and Id only be able to require Experian to refund the 
fees if I thought theyd unfairly charged Mr B them. But for reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think they did.
I appreciate my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Mr B. But having thought 
about everything carefully, I dont think Experian have done anything wrong. And I consider 
their actions of refunding Mr B £14.99, in the circumstances, to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman