DRN-3818209
The complaint
Ms Z is unhappy Paratus AMC Limited, trading as Foundation Home Loans 
(Foundation Home Loans) declined her application for a buy-to-let mortgage.
What happened
Ms Z approached Foundation Home Loans to arrange a buy-to-let mortgage for a studio flat 
she wished to purchase. A surveyor registered with the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS) assessed the property and produced a valuation report in May 2022. As 
a result of the report, Ms Zs application was declined. 
Ms Z is concerned Foundation Home Loans has made a decision based on incomplete 
information and hasnt applied its lending criteria correctly. She says this has caused her 
considerable stress and financial loss because of the various fees she had to pay. Ms Z 
thinks Foundation Home Loans should either seek a valuation from a different surveyor or 
compensate her for its decision. 
Foundation Home Loans looked into Ms Zs concerns but said it deemed the property 
unsuitable for a buy-to-let mortgage having relied on the opinion of a qualified surveyor. 
Foundation Home Loans explained the surveyor had reported that the property was less 
than thirty square meters, had the lowest energy efficiency rating of 'G', and that the future 
saleability of the property could affect its value. Foundation Home Loans confirmed the 
information Ms Z felt was missing would not change that. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Zs concerns, but they didnt think Foundation Home Loans 
had done anything wrong. As Ms Z disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Ms Zs complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain why.
Its important to note the ombudsman service does not regulate the financial services 
industry and we cant force a business to lend to a customer if it doesnt want to. Our role, in 
this case, is to decide whether Foundation Home Loans has followed the necessary steps to 
assess Ms Zs application fairly according to its own lending criteria. And based on what Ive 
seen, I think it has.
Foundation Home Loans considered Ms Zs application using its normal assessment criteria 
which would include getting a valuation of the property. Foundation Home Loans asked a 
surveyor who was registered with RICS to complete the valuation report. So, the surveyor 
was suitably qualified to carry out the valuation and was acting independently from 
Foundation Home Loans. As such, Foundation Home Loans is entitled to rely on the 
surveyors report.
Looking at the valuation report, there were a number of issues with the property 
Foundation Home Loans would need to factor into its decision whether to lend or not. Firstly, 
the property was 26 square feet, which is lower than Foundation Home Loans standard 
requirement of 30 square feet for a studio flat. While Ms Z is correct in saying Foundation 
Home Loans has the ability to apply an exception to smaller properties in certain areas, this 
doesnt mean it has to. And, even if it had applied an exception for this, there were other 
concerns about the property.
The surveyor found that the property had the lowest energy efficiency rating of 'G', which is 
lower than Foundation Home Loans lending criteria permits. The surveyor also raised 
concerns about the future saleability of the property and said that this would have an effect 
on its value. So, Foundation Home Loans also had legitimate concerns about the loan to 
value of the property and the potential risks of offering a buy-to-let mortgage on it. 
Ms Z says the price reflected the need to renovate the property and the surveyor didnt 
confirm what changes needed to be made. I understand why Ms Z has raised this challenge, 
but the surveyors report was completed in order to provide Foundation Home Loans with an 
accurate reflection of the propertys current state. Foundation Home Loans had to make a 
decision whether to lend or not based on the property as it was, and in doing so, it was 
entitled to rely on the information provided by the surveyor. The findings which showed the 
studio had the lowest energy efficiency rating would factor into this, regardless of whether 
Ms Z said she anticipated completing renovation work to the property before it could be 
rented. 
Ms Z also says the surveyor didnt provide any information on the sale of comparable 
properties, so she doesnt think theres enough evidence to justify declining her application. 
Ms Z says researching comparable properties is a requirement under Foundation Home 
Loans lending criteria and is also required by RCIS. Ms Z says shes provided her own 
evidence of similar properties that have been sold in the area, but Foundation Home Loans 
hasnt taken that into consideration.
While Ms Z has provided copies of other properties she thinks are comparable, Im not 
qualified to say whether they are or not. That is the role of the surveyor. But I note 
Foundation Home Loans lending criteria says it would ask the surveyor to provide recent, 
comparable evidence, for both rental demand and recent sales. The valuation report goes on 
to say the surveyor was required to look for comparable properties that had sold within the 
last six months. And from what Ive seen, the evidence Ms Z has provided relates to 
properties that sold over a year before the surveyor completed the report. 
The surveyors report suggests there were no comparable properties and it seems more 
likely than not their research into this led them to note that there could be saleability issues 
with the property. So, I dont think what Ms Z has said changes anything, and as Ive said 
above, Foundation Home Loans is entitled to rely on the surveyors valuation report. 
If Ms Z still feels the surveyor has not completed a full report she would need to complain 
about that separately and to the appropriate alternative complaint handling service. That 
said, I understand Ms Z has already approached RICS in order to do this and has been told 
she wouldnt be able to complain as the service was provided to Foundation Home Loans, 
not to her. I cant comment on that further as it doesnt fall under our remit. But I have fully 
considered whether Foundation Home Loans did anything wrong, and Im satisfied it didnt.In summary, Foundation Home Loans obtained a report from a RICS qualified surveyor as 
Id expect it to. Foundation Home Loans was entitled to rely on that report. The report raised 
concerns about the property which were not acceptable under Foundation Home Loans 
lending criteria. So, Ms Zs application was considered fairly, but ultimately, the property was 
deemed unsuitable for a buy-to-let mortgage with Foundation Home Loans. 
Ms Z was aware she would have to pay fees to purchase a new property, and there was 
never any guarantee her application would be approved. So, while I appreciate this will be 
disappoint for Ms Z, I havent seen any reason Foundation Home Loans should refund the 
fees she paid or compensate her for being unable to lend to her on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Ms Zs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman