DRN-3686280
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt reimburse him after he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr S has said he came across an article in a national newspaper about 
cryptocurrency investment. He contacted one of the companies he said was recommended 
in the article to enquire about making an investment and agreed he would use their services. 
Unfortunately this company turned out to be scammers.
The scammers provided Mr S with access to an online account that they said would show 
him the performance of his investment. They persuaded Mr S to open accounts in his name 
with several crypto currency trading platforms so he could deposit his money there and 
which they had full control of. Mr S had no direct access to the accounts themselves or his 
money once he had transferred it.
On 2 June 2020 Mr S made a payment of around £850 which he believed was his first 
investment. This showed a profit of £100 very quickly and this profit was sent back to Mr S. 
This reassured him the investment was legitimate and he proceeded to make a payment of 
£8,324.41 on 5 June 2020 and of £32,499.08 on 12 June 2020. A few days later, the 
account hed been given by scammers showed him a balance of around £100,000.
Mr S was told by the scammers the large profit hed made was raising suspicions with 
regulators overseas because theyd been trading without enough leverage. They said the 
money was blocked but if Mr S made a further investment of £20,000 the percentage of 
profit would be lower. This would unfreeze the account and allow them to return the money 
within two months. Mr S made a further payment of £16,112.61 on 23 June 2020, £10,000 of 
which hed obtained by taking out a loan.
When the money was not returned to Mr S and the scammers stopped responding to him he 
realised hed been the victim of a scam. He contacted HSBC but it didnt feel it was liable for 
Mr Ss loss. Mr S was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our service.
I issued a provisional decision in this case. In summary I said that:
The payments Mr S made to scammers were authorised under the Payment Services 
Regulations (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of his account. So as a starting 
point Mr S was presumed liable for them. But, taking into account the law, regulators 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time,  I felt HSBC had an obligation to be on the look out 
for indications its customers might be at risk of a scam. I also felt where appropriate it 
ought to intervene and carry out further checks where a risk was identified and in 
some cases refuse to make the payments altogether. 
HSBC confirmed the payment made on 5 June 2020, for £8,324.41, did prompt it to 
intervene. It contacted Mr S to ask him more about the payment before it was made. 
And I thought this was reasonable. This was the first payment I thought it ought to 
have recognised as unusual.
Whilst HSBC did ask Mr S some questions about the payment, I didnt think it went 
far enough in questioning him about this. It didnt ask any probing questions I 
wouldve expected in order to establish whether or not he was at risk of a scam. And 
had it questioned him sufficiently, even by asking what the payment was for or who it 
was to, I thought it likely wouldve uncovered he was the victim of a scam. I said this 
because I thought it wouldve become clear he had no experience in this area, didnt 
have control over the platforms he was making payment to, had been guaranteed no 
loss and hadnt carried out any due diligence to check the company he was dealing 
with was legitimate. The FCA (Financial Conduct Authority) had also already issued a 
warning before Mr S made his first payment as part of the scam and I wouldve 
expected HSBC to have checked this. Had it done so, I thought it couldve informed 
Mr S he was likely the victim of a scam and it wouldve been prevented.
But, I also thought Mr S shared liability for his loss in this case. I said this because all 
the information I could find online from the time Mr S searched for the company 
indicated it was a scam risk. He hadnt been provided with any paperwork as I 
thought youd expected when entering into an arrangement with a professional 
advisor, he wasnt given any details around the companys role, or any detail around 
how the investment worked. I also thought it ought to have concerned him that he 
was being guaranteed no loss even though he was investing in a highly volatile and 
unregulated area. He also set up crypto currency trading accounts with three 
separate platforms and handed control of the accounts over to scammers, seemingly 
without explanation as to why he needed to do this. And although I could see he had 
received £100 back from the scammers, I didnt think this relatively small amount 
ought to have convinced him to start investing so much more given the other 
concerning factors.
Overall, I did take into account that Mr S was involved in a new area of investment to 
him and I understood he thought he was relying on a professional. But I also thought 
he took an unreasonable risk in sending over £40,000 to individuals he essentially 
had been unable to verify in any way and in spite of the various concerning factors 
that came up before hed sent his first payment to them. 
I could see HSBC did make attempts to try and recall the funds from the international 
banks Mr S paid although it didnt do this immediately as I wouldve expected. But I 
could also see that the receiving banks either failed to respond altogether or refused 
to return any funds if available. And I didnt think it was likely this response wouldve 
been different had HSBC tried to contact them sooner given it had been between 10 
days and 10 months since the payments were made and given that international 
banks arent subject to the same obligations as a UK bank would be.I initially asked HSBC to reimburse Mr S for 50% of his loss plus interest but didnt 
feel it needed to reimburse him for the interest hed paid on the loan hed taken out to 
fund some of the payments to the scammer. However, upon reconsidering this I felt 
HSBC should be liable for 50% of the interest on the loan Mr S took out and clarified 
this point to both parties before proceeding to issue my final decision.
HSBC responded to the provisional decision and said it didnt accept my findings but would 
be prepared to offer Mr S the redress I had recommended as a gesture of goodwill. Mr S 
responded and confirmed again that he hadnt seen the warning issued by the Financial 
Conduct Authority before he made the payments. But he later responded again and 
accepted the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither HSBC or Mr S provided any further evidence or submissions for me to consider in 
this case my decision is in line with my provisional decision, which Ive summarised above. I 
think HSBC and Mr S share responsibility for Mr Ss loss.
Putting things right
Mr S paid a total of £56,936.10 to scammers, £10,000 of which was funded by a loan he 
took out with a third party provider. HSBC is liable for 50% of this loss (£28,468.05).
£46,936.10 of the money Mr S paid to scammers came from his savings account with 
HSBC. HSBC should reimburse him for 50% of this (£23,468.05) plus interest at the 
account rate from 6 July 2020 (the date HSBC appears to have concluded its 
investigation into Mr Ss scam claim and reasonably ought to have refunded part of 
the loss) to the date of settlement.
£10,000 of the money Mr S sent to scammers was funded by a loan he took out with 
a third party company. He had repaid this loan in full in October 2021. HSBC should 
reimburse Mr S 50% of this loss (£5,000) plus interest:
oIt should refund 50% of the total loan repayments Mr S has made, which 
includes 50% of the interest applicable to these payments;
oIt should add interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum to each repayment 
from the date it was made to the date of settlement to reflect the time hes 
been deprived of the funds.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay the redress outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman