DRN-2604542
The complaint
 Mr W complains about the service that he received from Quilter Financial Services Ltd 
(Quilter). Mr W says that he was promised a full financial review but despite several 
meetings, recommendations were provided in full. Mr W complains that he has been 
charged for a service that he didnt receive.
What happened
Mr Ws portfolio was acquired by Quilter when they took over the firm where he held his 
investments. Mr W met with an adviser from Quilter in February 2018 and this meeting was 
used as an introduction and to discuss his financial details.
Further meetings were held with the adviser and Mr W says that he discussed all aspects of 
his finances with a view to receiving a full financial review. Mr W received recommendations 
for his pension but not for the other parts of his portfolio.
The original adviser was replaced with another adviser and Mr W tried to arrange a meeting 
but did not receive a response. In December 2019, another adviser from Quilter contacted 
Mr W to introduce himself and to arrange a meeting.
A meeting was arranged and Mr W went through his financial details again with the new 
adviser. Mr W made it clear that he was expecting a full financial review but again, only 
received recommendations for his pension. 
Mr W complained to Quilter on 25 October 2019 who investigated the complaint. Quilter 
acknowledged that there had been delays in the time taken to deal with Mr Ws financial 
reviews and the fact that he had not received a summary of his policies and upheld his 
complaint.
Quilter offered a refund of fees of £423.37 and £250 in compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused bringing the total redress to £673.37.
Mr W did not accept Quilters offer and referred his complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators reviewed the complaint. The investigator thought that Quilter had acted unfairly 
and upheld the complaint.
The investigator thought that Quilter should refund the fees and add 8% simple interest on 
this amount. The investigator also thought that the award for trouble and upset should be 
increased to £500.
Both Mr W and Quilter did not agree with the redress that the investigator had awarded and 
asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. I know that Mr W and Quilter feel 
strongly about the complaint and did not agree with the redress awarded by the investigator 
so I will explain why I have reached my decision.
As the actual circumstances of the complaint are not in dispute and Quilter have 
acknowledged that the service was not acceptable, its not my intention to go over the 
circumstances of the complaint in detail. 
In their submission to the service, Quilter have raised a couple of objections to the award 
made by the investigator:
8% interest added to the refund of fees that were levied
Trouble and upset award of £500
8% interest added to the refund of fees that were levied
Quilter say that Mr W has not been denied use of these funds because if they were not 
levied then they would have remained invested. They say that Mr Ws holdings would have 
been representative of the investment risk that he was prepared to accept but the 
investigator in his award has provided a guaranteed return of 8% on monies that were 
intended to be left invested. Quilter say that this is clearly incorrect.
In response to the challenge made by Quilter, the investigator said that had Mr W been 
aware that he was not going to receive the reviews he was expecting, he would have 
transferred her investments elsewhere.
The investigator said that as no reviews took place, he couldnt be certain what investments 
would have been chosen but if recommendations had been made, he would have been able 
to compare to a relevant benchmark for comparison. 
The investigator also said that Mr W had indicated that his investments may not have been 
in line with his attitude to risk so this was another reason where he couldnt be sure of what 
benchmark would be appropriate.
I have considered what Quilter have said in relation to the 8% award of interest to be paid 
and have also reviewed what our investigator has said in his response. I think the approach 
that the investigator has used is fair and reasonable.
I agree with the investigators view that had Mr W known that a full review of his portfolio 
would not be carried out then he would probably have transferred to another provider. Quilter 
have said that his funds would have remained invested in line with his attitude to risk, but 
this statement is in doubt as the meeting notes indicate that Mr W may have had a different 
attitude to risk.
I am not persuaded by Quilters argument that the funds would have remained invested and 
subject to normal investment risk as it is unclear if Mr Ws attitude to risk would have 
remained unchanged. As no recommendations were made, the service cant make any 
benchmark comparison. In the absence of this information, I think that the award of 8% 
interest on the fees to be refunded is the fairest option available.
Trouble and upset award of £500In their submission to the service, Quilter did not agree with the investigator that the award 
for trouble and upset should be increased from £250 to £500. They said that their offer was 
in line with what the service would recommend to a business faced with a fee issue.
The investigator said that after Quilter had offered £250, Mr W had a further 12-month delay 
and he had to provide the same information all over again. Mr W was also told that despite a 
full financial review being offered in the final response to him, he was told that this would not 
be provided.
In his submission to the service, Mr W said that he had accepted the original offer of £250 in 
order to move things along but as the issues remained unresolved, he felt that the offer of 
£500 was too low and should be increased.
I have considered both submissions and I think that the offer of £500 for the trouble and 
upset caused is fair and reasonable. Quilters original offer was made before Mr W 
experienced further delays and they did not provide him with a full financial review. 
Mr W has said that the offer of £500 is too low and does not consider the stress, trouble and 
upset that has been caused by Quilters actions. Although I sympathise with Mr W that he 
has been inconvenienced and I have no doubt that this has been a stressful time for him, the 
award of £500 is in line with what the service would normally award in situations like this.
In summary, I think that the awards made by the investigator are fair and reasonable and I 
am not going to suggest any changes to these awards or how they are calculated.
Putting things right
I require Quilter Financial Services Ltd to undertake the following actions:
Refund any fees that were applied to Mr Ws account from November 2017
Add 8% simple interest to this amount until payment is made 
Make a payment of £500 for the trouble and upset caused 
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman