DRN-2527952
The complaint
Mr H complains that Delisa Miller (Manchester) Ltd trading as Chandler Simmons (Chandler 
Simmons) delayed in dealing with his claim for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). 
He also complains he was given incorrect information. Mr H wants Chandler Simmons to 
waive their fees.   
What happened
Mr H instructed Chandler Simmons in October 2018 to handle his PPI claims against Lender 
R. Chandler Simmons received confirmation of two accounts in January 2019 (claim 1) and 
two accounts in February (claim 2). Claim 1 was settled and a payment was made to Mr H in 
April. Around this time, Mr H asked about progress on claim 2 and was told Lender R were 
still considering these.  
Mr H says he chased multiple times and was always told the claims were still with Lender R. 
A new letter of authority was sent to Mr H in August which Chandler Simmons explained was 
due to recent changes made by the lender. Chandler Simmons then issued claim 2 and this 
was settled in April 2020. Mr H queried when claim 2 was issued and was told by Chandler 
Simmons they had originally overlooked this claim. 
Mr H raised a complaint about the delay and also being misled about the reason Chandler 
Simmons required a new letter of authority to be signed. Chandler Simmons responded and 
accepted there had been delay in progressing claim 2. They said it was picked up following 
an internal audit and this is what led them to ask for an updated letter of authority. Chandler 
Simmons agreed Mr H had made calls to chase progress but couldnt explain why staff didnt 
flag that claim 2 needed to be issued. They accepted there had been an error on their part 
and offered a 10% reduction on the fees outstanding for claim 2. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H and thought there had been an error by Chandler 
Simmons. She felt, as well as the 10% reduction in fees, Chandler Simmons should also pay 
compensation of £100. Mr H disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr H will be disappointed by 
this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr H including the delay in issuing claim 2. The key 
facts about this part of the complaint arent in dispute. Chandler Simmons have admitted 
they got things wrong and there was around a six-month delay in issuing claim 2. There 
were opportunities for Chandler Simmons to identify the error, particularly when Mr H called 
them to find out about progress. I also think Mr H was given incorrect information about the 
need for a new letter of authority. Chandler Simmons asked Mr H to sign a new letter of 
authority in August 2019 and said this was required due to changes made by the lender. I 
havent been provided with any information which shows what those changes were. Ive 
looked at the letter of authority signed by Mr H in October 2018 and the one signed in 
August 2019 and the two are similar. So, I think, its more likely than not, a new letter of 
authority was required because the one signed in October 2018 was no longer valid for 
Lender R due to the time which had lapsed.
  
I think its right that Chandler Simmons compensate Mr H for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their poor service when handling his claim. Mr H has told us the situation with 
Chandler Simmons caused him frustration as he was being told by their staff that they were 
waiting to hear back from Lender R in relation to claim 2. Its understandable a consumer will 
be anxious to know the outcome of their claim. So, a business should deal with claims with 
little or no delay. That hasnt happened here and Mr Hs claim 2 wasnt settled until almost 
14 months after Lender R told Chandler Simmons about the accounts relating to claim 2. Six 
months of this period was down to inactivity on the part of Chandler Simmons.
  
I agree its reasonable for Chandler Simmons to take steps to put things right. I feel their 
offer of a 10% reduction in the fees is reasonable. And, they should pay compensation to Mr 
H to reflect the frustration and distress when finding out he had been given incorrect 
information as well as the inconvenience caused by the delay. I think £100 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
  
I note Mr H wants Chandler Simmons to waive their fees for claim 2. I can see Mr H has 
signed Terms of Engagement with Chandler Simmons and they have carried out work which 
has led to a successful outcome for Mr H in relation to claim 2. So, I think its fair for 
Chandler Simmons to charge a fee for their services and I wont be asking them to waive the 
fee. I have taken into account Mr Hs point that he shouldve been informed that Chandler 
Simmons no longer had a valid letter of authority for claim 2 and then to ask him whether he 
wanted them to continue acting. Mr H says in August 2019 there was more information 
available to help consumers to deal with PPI claims themselves. And, had he been told the 
real reason for needing a new letter of authority, he wouldnt have needed Chandler 
Simmons to act for him.  
Im not persuaded by this argument as the Terms of Engagement signed by Mr H in October 
2018 do say that he can complain to the lender directly at no cost. It also goes further to say 
that Mr H can refer the matter to our service. And, following this, Mr H decided to pursue his 
claims through Chandler Simmons. So, on the balance of probabilities, I believe it is more 
likely than not, Mr H would still have signed the new letter of authority for Chandler Simmons 
to pursue claim 2 even if they had told him the need for a new letter of authority was down to 
their delay. And, I havent seen any information which suggests Mr H was, at the time, 
thinking about pursuing claim 2 directly with Lender R. In addition to this, the letter of 
authority signed by Mr H in August 2019 sets out that Mr H acknowledges he has been 
advised he can act himself without the involvement of Chandler Simmons. So, I think 
Chandler Simmons have notified Mr H that he can pursue the claim himself but he has 
signed the letter of authority instructing Chandler Simmons.   
I do understand Mr Hs frustration at not receiving accurate information. And I can see our 
investigator has provided Mr H with details of the appropriate organisation who can look into 
the conduct of a business if he feels he has been misled.   
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Chandler Simmons delayed in dealing with claim 2 and also gave 
incorrect information to Mr H. So, Chandler Simmons should reduce their fees for claim 2 by 10%. They should also pay compensation of £100 to reflect the frustration and 
inconvenience to Mr H. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Delisa Miller (Manchester) Ltd trading as 
Chandler Simmons must:
Reduce their fees for claim 2 by 10%; and
Pay compensation to Mr H in the sum of £100 for the frustration and inconvenience 
caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman