DRN-3416735
The complaint
The estate of Mrs D (referred to as Mr D who is representing the estate) complains that 
Rothesay Life Plc (Rothesay) wouldnt extend its deadline for responses to its annuity offer.
What happened
In August 2021 Rothesay wrote out to a group of customers offering them the opportunity to 
cash in their existing annuity income and replace it with a one-off lump sum. Within this letter 
it set out that if customers wished to take up this offer they would have to send the enclosed 
form selecting their preferences by 15 October 2021. Rothesay also sent a reminder letter in 
September 2021.
Approximately a month after the deadline Rothesay received Mrs Ds signed form requesting 
the annuity be exchanged for a lump sum.
Rothesay responded to say the deadline had expired and it hadnt had any prior contact from 
Mrs D or Mr D to say the offer deadline couldnt be met. So it said it was unable to extend 
the offer. Mr D telephoned Rothesay to appeal and he explained his wife had problems with 
her eyesight and was unable to read the letter and therefore missed the deadline. 
Rothesays decision didnt change, it said it couldnt extend the offer.
Sadly Mrs Ds health deteriorated further after this and she passed away on 28 December 
2021. 
Mr D believes Rothesay shouldve made an exception given Mrs Ds problems with her 
eyesight and she was disabled at the time of the offer and unable to respond in time. He 
says she was very independent but was unable to open and read the offer and by the time 
he found the letter it was too late in terms of the time limit set by Rothesay.
Our investigator looked into matters, but he didnt think Rothesay had done anything wrong. 
He explained Rothesay was unaware of Mrs Ds eyesight issue at the time and measures 
couldve been put in place to look after her mail when she became unable to do this herself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to offer my condolences to Mr D, I understand that this has been a very difficult 
time for him and dealing with this complaint cannot have been easy.
I can understand why Mr D is of the opinion that but for Mrs Ds health issues she wouldve 
accepted the offer within the deadline and therefore Rothesay should put things right. 
However, for a complaint to be upheld Id need to conclude that Rothesay acted unfairly or 
did something wrong.
Rothesay sent out an offer to all its qualifying customers in August 2021 and a reminder in 
September 2021 for an offer expiring in October 2021. I think this was a reasonable 
timescale. And I think it is a fair and reasonable process to have a time limit within which a 
response needs to be received. A time limit may have been required for operational and 
financial reasons. It also needs to be said that this was an offer that Rothesay made at its 
discretion, this wasnt a customer right as an annuity was already contractually in payment.
To amend things now as if the response had been received in time and the annuity 
exchanged for a lump sum, would be at a cost to Rothesay and would require time and 
staffing to calculate and organise. So I can understand why it hasnt offered to make an 
exception here. And there will have been other people who also missed the time limit but will 
have wished to take up the offer. To have a fair procedure for late acceptance where it 
considers each case on its circumstances would also bring additional costs. So, I think it is 
reasonable for Rothesay to stick to the deadline it set for processing offer acceptances.  
Unfortunately, Mr D has told us that Mrs Ds eyesight had deteriorated to the point that she 
was unable to read this letter at the time. However, Rothesay was unaware of this and by 
the time Mr D made it aware, the time limit had already expired. I appreciate that Mrs D was 
unable to deal with the correspondence herself and Mr D will have been preoccupied with 
caring for his wife but Rothesay was unaware of this and it set a fair timescale for response. 
Had Mrs Ds mail been checked from the point she was unable to deal with it herself, there 
wouldve been time to respond or let Rothesay know of the difficulties there may be in 
responding in time. So I cannot hold Rothesay responsible for the time limit for response 
being missed. 
So considering the circumstances I dont think I can reasonably conclude that Rothesay has 
done anything wrong. It made an offer to customers, an offer that is not a right and it a set a 
fair time limit for response for customers if they wished to take up this offer. Unfortunately, 
due to health issues Mrs Ds response wasnt made in time to qualify for this offer but there 
was nothing Rothesay couldve done differently as it was unaware of these health issues. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman