DRN-2094767
The complaint
Ms O complains that Sabre Insurance Company Limited cancelled her motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Ms O took out a policy with Sabre, but she was unhappy that it asked her for information 
about her and the named drivers driving licences. She was also unhappy that it cancelled 
her policy when this wasnt provided.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Sabre 
had acted within the policy terms and conditions and reasonably when requesting further 
information about the drivers. She thought Sabre had reasonably cancelled the policy after 
giving sufficient notice. 
Ms O asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a 
final decision. She wanted a refund of her premiums with compensation as she was without 
insurance and unable to drive her car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms O said she found the Sabre policy through an online comparison site. She said she 
wasnt aware from the limited information then provided that Sabre would require further 
sensitive information about her and the named drivers. 
But I can see that she would have had to read and agree Sabres terms and conditions in 
order to buy the policy. In these, there is a section on data protection where it is explained 
that Sabre may require sensitive information, such as driving licences, after the policy has 
been bought. 
I dont think this is unusual or unreasonable. I think insurers are entitled to ask for relevant 
information in order to validate what theyve been told. And I think information about driving 
licences is relevant to a motor insurance policy. 
Ms O objected to providing a copy of her driving licence. But I think Sabre then reasonably 
agreed that she could provide the DVLA codes for herself and the named drivers in order to 
validate their details. But Ms O didnt provide her driving licence number and so Sabre 
couldnt access the licence check. And DVLA wouldnt provide Ms O with codes for her the 
named drivers, though I cant see she told Sabre that. So I cant say this was a reason for 
Sabre to extend its deadline for Ms O to provide the information. 
As Sabre hadnt received the required information from Ms O, it told her that it intended to 
cancel her policy and gave her seven days notice of this. I can see that Ms O received this 
cancellation notice. No further information was received by Sabre. And so I think the policy 
was cancelled, and charges applied in keeping with the policy terms and conditions. I think 
that was fair and reasonable and I dont require Sabre to refund Ms Os premium in full as 
shed been provided with cover for a period. 
Ms O said she and the named drivers couldnt use the car as they had no insurance. But I 
think it was Ms Os decision not to provide Sabre with their licence details, and so I think this 
led to the cancellation. I cant hold Sabre responsible for Ms Os decision or for her not 
finding suitable cover elsewhere. And so I dont require Sabre to provide Ms O with any 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman