DRN-3322340
The complaint
Ms L complains about the service she received after she asked Nationwide Building Society
(Nationwide) for support due to the impact of Covid-19.
What happened
Ms L entered into a loan agreement with Nationwide in 2019 with a term of 60 months. As a
result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Nationwide agreed a payment holiday on the loan from
May to July 2020. At the end of the payment holiday, it wrote to Ms L to set out her options.
It said that, if she was able to start making payments again, she would need to sign a new
loan agreement online. Alternatively, if she couldnt start making payments again, she
needed to let Nationwide know.
On or around 3 August 2020, Ms L contacted Nationwide and explained that her finances
were still being impacted by the pandemic. She said she wanted to reduce the monthly
payments on her loan. She explained her situation and said she had withdrawn some money
from her pension. She said she wanted to use £3,000 of that to pay off part of her loan, keep
the same term but reduce the monthly payment. The agent said that wasnt possible but said
the loan term could be extended up to seven years.
The agent looked at extending the loan term and gave Ms L some figures for the monthly
payments. But she said that to get the monthly payment down to the figure Ms L wanted, the
amount of interest payable overall became so high that it wasnt a good idea. She suggested
that Ms L could pay the £3,000 into her loan account then cancel her Direct Debit, use the
credit as payment for a few months and keep an eye on things. She said that another option
would be to extend the payment holiday for another three months but that was risky as it was
just storing up the interest problem for afterwards.
The agent said that Ms L could go online herself and try inputting some different loan terms
to see what the figures were and whether she could find a workable solution. She said that
Ms L would need to complete an income and expenditure form online to do this. Ms L went
online and tried to extend the loan term. But her application was declined on the basis that
she couldnt afford it.
She rang Nationwide and asked what she should do. She said shed put in various figures
but kept getting taken back to the screen telling her that she couldnt afford the payments,
even though they were less than her existing contractual payment. The agent asked if Ms L
would like to go through a Statement of Means over the phone, so that she could re-apply.
Ms L asked what difference that would make as shed already input all the information into
the form online and had been declined. She asked what would happen if she went through it
over the phone and was declined again. The agent said that the account would go down the
default route and be transferred to a third party.
Ms L decided not to complete the Statement of Means. Instead, she called Nationwide back
later that day and asked for a settlement figure. She paid off the loan in full that same day
using the funds shed withdrawn from her pension. Shed only expected to use £3,000 from
the pension towards the loan. But she ended up using more than that to clear the loan in full.
So, she says she had to make a further withdrawal from her pension in September 2020 to
cover other costs which shed planned to pay from the original pension withdrawal.
Ms L was extremely dissatisfied with the service she received from Nationwide and made a
complaint. Nationwide accepted that some of the information it had given Ms L was wrong.
At one stage, she had been advised she could apply for a Top Up loan. But Nationwide
acknowledged that this advice didnt recognise the fact that Ms L had been on a payment
holiday due to Covid-19. It paid her £25 as an apology for this mistake. Later on, it paid her a
further £100 as an apology for the misleading information she was given about her account
being defaulted and passed to a third party.
But Ms L remained unhappy about the situation and asked this service to look into it. Our
Adjudicator didnt think Nationwide had acted fairly. She thought that, in addition to the
compensation, Nationwide needed to remove any adverse information from Ms Ls credit file.
She also said that Nationwide should reimburse Ms L for the tax she paid on the second
pension withdrawal, less interest which would have been added to the loan during the
payment holiday and the £125 already paid to Ms L.
Nationwide didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. It
said the only reason it didnt offer Ms L a further payment holiday or an extension of the loan
term was that Ms L declined to complete the Statement of Means during her call with the
agent. And it said it would have discussed other options with Ms L before passing her
account to a debt collection agency. But it said that Ms L didnt give it the opportunity to see
what options were available as she went ahead and paid off the loan in full.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 January 2022. I provisionally upheld the complaint but 
the address I proposed was different from our Adjudicators recommendations. Ms L didnt 
have any comments on the provisional decision. Nationwide didnt agree that it had been 
unsupportive to Ms L on the phone. It said it couldnt offer her a further payment holiday 
without her completing a Statement of Means. It said it was Ms Ls decision to withdraw 
funds from her pension to settle the loan and this wasnt something Nationwide had asked 
her to do. But Nationwide agreed to the redress I provisionally recommended. Im now 
making a final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Nationwides comments and thought about everything again. But I havent 
changed my mind about the appropriate outcome here. So Im going to uphold this complaint 
in the way I indicated in my provisional decision. My reasoning is set out again below.
In July 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) updated its guidance on relief measures
for customers who were negatively impacted by Covid-19. The updated guidance said that
businesses should extend payment holidays by an additional three months for customers
who were still struggling and ensure that their credit files werent negatively affected by this.
Its clear that Ms L was still being financially impacted by Covid-19 when she called
Nationwide in August 2020. She was being proactive by getting in touch and trying to find a
way to keep her account on track. In the circumstances here, I think Nationwide should have
made it clear to Ms L that she might be eligible for a three-month extension of her payment
holiday and discussed this option with her seriously. She says that shed have taken this
option if it had been offered to her.Nationwide says that Ms L didnt ask for a payment holiday extension. But she says she
didnt realise it was a possibility so didnt know to ask for one. I think thats reasonable,
particularly as Nationwides letter to her didnt mention it as an option.
Ms L says she wasnt told at the outset that she would have to reapply for the loan after the
payment holiday. She says that the effect of taking the payment holiday was that Nationwide
cancelled the original loan agreement. She says it then told her to apply for another loan,
which it declined on the basis that she didnt qualify. I think the way Nationwide explained
the situation at the end of the payment holiday was confusing.
The letter setting out the options talked about signing a new loan agreement. And when Ms 
L applied for this online, the email message she received said Thanks for taking the time to
apply for a Personal Loan and Unfortunately were unable to offer you a loan at this time
because the information shared with us from external credit reference agencies means you
dont currently meet our lending criteria. This message didnt accurately reflect the situation.
Ms L wasnt applying for a new loan - she already had a loan. She didnt need to be
assessed as a new loan applicant. Instead, Nationwide needed to acknowledge that she was
an existing loan customer who was financially affected by Covid-19. It needed to either offer
her support under the FCA coronavirus guidelines or treat her with forbearance in line with
existing rules. I dont think it did either here, so I dont think it acted reasonably.
Nationwide then made further mistakes by giving Ms L incorrect information about how her
account would be treated. She had already completed an income and expenditure form
online and her application had been declined. She says that, even if she had completed the
form over the phone with the agent, the data they were inputting would have been the same.
So I think it was reasonable for her to assume that the outcome would be the same. I think it
was logical for her ask what would happen if the application was declined again. The agent
told her that the account would be defaulted and transferred to a third party.
Nationwide accepts that this information wasnt correct and says it would have discussed
other options with Ms L before passing her account to a debt collection agent as a last
resort. But thats not what Ms L was told and I think it was reasonable for her to assume that
the information she was given over the phone was correct.
Her communications with Nationwide up to that point can be summarised as follows: (a) she
needed to start making payments again or tell Nationwide that she couldnt do so, (b) her
monthly payment couldnt be reduced even if she paid off part of the loan, (c) she could
apply online to extend the loan term, (d) her application was declined for affordability
reasons, (e) she should apply again with the agent over the phone, (f) no other options were
suggested and (g) if that application were to be declined (which, as above, she felt sure it
would be) her account would be defaulted and passed to debt collectors. Ms L says she
thought the only viable option was to pay off the loan in full. I think that was a reasonable
conclusion for her to reach in the circumstances.
Nationwides mistakes caused Ms L considerable distress. The worry and inconvenience she
experienced could have been avoided if Nationwide had either extended her payment
holiday or suggested reasonable alternative ways forward. Withdrawing money from her
pension so that she could clear the loan early also had a financial cost for Ms L. I think that
could also have been avoided if Nationwide had adopted a more reasonable approach, in
line with the FCAs coronavirus guidance or normal forbearance rules for customers
experiencing financial difficulty.Putting things right
To put things right, I think Nationwide needs to remove any adverse information about the
loan from Ms Ls credit file from the day she first contacted it in August 2020. It should also
reimburse her for the tax she incurred on the second pension withdrawal. And it should pay
her compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced.
I understand that the tax on the additional pension withdrawal was £1,197.37. So Nationwide
should reimburse that amount. I dont think any interest needs to be deducted as any interest
due to Nationwide should have been factored into the early settlement figure.
I dont think the compensation of £125 should be deducted from this amount either. Thats
because Ms L needs to be reimbursed for the full amount by which she is out of pocket. The
compensation payment is for distress and inconvenience she suffered and is an additional
award on top of the financial loss.
Taking everything into account, I dont think £125 is enough compensation here. The
distress caused to Ms L was significant. She also had to take unnecessary steps at
inconvenience and stress to herself in order to do what she thought was necessary to
preserve her good financial standing. This was because Nationwide unreasonably declined
to follow the FCAs coronavirus guidance, gave her incorrect advice and failed to show her
forbearance. I think compensation of £300 would be appropriate. As Nationwide has already
paid £125 to Ms L, it will need to pay a further £175.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society should:
remove any adverse information reported to the Credit Reference Agencies from the
day of Ms Ls first call to Nationwide in August 2020;
pay Ms L £1,197.37 for financial loss she suffered in the form of tax on her pension
withdrawal; and
pay Ms L further compensation of £175 for the distress and inconvenience she
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman