DRN-2942664
The complaint
Mr M complains Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Mazda Financial Services 
(Santander) treated him unfairly when he experienced financial difficulty due to the Covid-19 
pandemic.
What happened
In September 2016, Mr M entered into a 60 month conditional sale agreement for a used car 
with Santander. The cars cash price was £16,000 and Mr M was required to pay monthly 
instalments of £314. 
In March 2020, Mr M contacted Santander to say due to the Covid-19 pandemic he wasnt 
able to work so he couldnt pay the monthly payments. Santander said they could set up a 
payment deferral but this would cost £60 or alternatively, they would change the due date so 
he wouldnt have to pay that months instalment. Mr M chose the latter. Santander told him 
to contact them if his situation hadnt changed two weeks before the next payment date 
which was 25 April 2020. Mr M cancelled his direct debit on 25 March 2020. 
By April 2020, Mr Ms situation still hadnt improved and as advised, he tried to contact 
Santander by phone and online but he said he wasnt able to speak to them. On 7 May 
2020, he applied for a payment deferral online which was agreed by Santander. 
On 11 May 2020, Mr M settled the finance in full. However thereafter he received arrears 
correspondence saying he still owed money. Mr M said this caused worry and impacted his 
health so he complained.
Santander said due to the Covid-19 pandemic they were experiencing high volumes of calls 
and they had updated their website to assist consumers with Covid-19 related queries and 
requests. They confirmed when Mr M initially called in March 2020, they changed the due 
date and advised him to contact them back but they didnt say he should cancel his direct 
debit. As they didnt hear from him and the payment deferral wasnt requested until May 
2020, the account fell into arrears so they were legally obliged to let him know about this.  
Unhappy with their response, Mr M referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They said Santander had offered support by 
changing the payment date so nothing had to be paid in March. As Aprils payment wasnt 
met, the account fell into arrears so it was fair for Santander to send communication about 
the arrears. They didnt believe there was sufficient evidence to show Mr M contacted 
Santander before 7 May 2020 to request a payment deferral but they accepted he tried but 
he wasnt able to speak to them. Lastly they said it wasnt unreasonable that Santander was 
unable to stop the automatically generated text messages about the arrears because this 
was sent the day after the account was settled. Mr M disagreed.    
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
This relates to a regulated conditional sale agreement so Im satisfied I can consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of agreements.
The UK government imposed a nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic on 23 
March 2020. Based on Santanders contact notes, I can see Mr M told them he was 
experiencing financial difficulty because of it.
At the time, there was no specific guidance about what to do for those affected by the 
pandemic. However there was existing guidance about dealing with situations of financial 
difficulty that I would expect Santander to follow. The guidance is found in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) which says A firm 
must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration. 
I thought about the options Santander provided to Mr M, that was a payment deferral at a 
cost of £60 or to change the due date meaning the next payment date would be 25 April 
2020. They also advised him to contact them before this date should his situation not 
change. Neither party disputes this. 
Rather than imposing a fee for a payment holiday, I believe Santander acted fairly by 
agreeing to change the payment due date. This is because it allowed Mr M some breathing 
space as a payment wouldnt be taken for March. Given the ever changing environment and 
the impact the pandemic was having I think it would be fair to say consumers like Mr M were 
uncertain what would happen. Equally, financial businesses like Santander were trying to 
work out how to assist their consumers who found themselves in similar situations as Mr M. 
Therefore I think it was reasonable for Santander to say he should contact them back closer 
to the next payment date in April if he was still struggling financially. Given these wider 
circumstances and the degree of uncertainty at the time, I believe Santander acted fairly and 
showed forbearance to Mr M as I would expect in light of his financial difficulties.
As advised, Mr M said he tried to contact Santander by phone and he sent messages via 
their website in April. Although Ive seen no evidence of this, I have no reason to dispute 
what he has said and I accept this is what happened but he was unable to speak to 
Santander. Theyve explained due to the pandemic, their phone lines were significantly busy 
with queries from their consumers. While I acknowledge Mr Ms efforts to contact them and 
his frustrations when he couldnt do so, I cant ignore what was happening at the time and 
the significant impact the pandemic wouldve had on Santanders operations and resources. 
These were unprecedented times.
Mr M said he subsequently received an arrears notice for £349 on 5 May 2020. Santander 
said whenever the account falls into arrears, such communication is generated 
automatically. For the reasons explained above, Mr Ms account had fallen into arrears 
because Aprils instalment hadnt been paid so I dont believe sending notifications about it 
was unreasonable. Santander confirmed they didnt mark adverse information on his credit 
report and in the circumstances I think this was fair. Having read the arrears 
correspondence, I dont find them to be threatening or intimidating in nature as Mr M has 
suggested, its content is what I would expect to see in such communication.  But I 
appreciate Mr M wouldve been upset about receiving it given he had been making attempts 
to speak to Santander. The arrears letter said a late payment fee of £35 was due but their statement of account shows this fee was waived so I dont believe Santander need to do 
anything more here.
On 27 April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published its Motor finance 
agreements and coronavirus: draft temporary guidance for firms. This set out what rule 
changes it was intending to make to deal with the impact of Covid-19. The guidance stated 
that a firm should grant a customer whose finances had been negatively impacted by the 
Covid-19 pandemic, a payment deferral for three months unless the firm determines (acting 
reasonably) its obviously not in the customers interests to do. The intention behind the 
guidance was to ensure consumers who wouldve otherwise been fine, wouldnt be 
negatively impacted by Covid-19. In this case, its clear Mr Ms financial difficulties were as a 
result of the pandemic so Im glad to see Santander agreed to the payment deferral for Mr M 
so I cant say they done anything wrong.
Lastly, I understand Mr M is unhappy that he received communication about the account 
being in arrears after he had settled it, I appreciate this wouldve caused him to worry.  
Based on the evidence, I can see the account was settled in full on 11 May 2020. Text 
messages about the arrears were sent on 11 and 12 May 2020.
 
I have insufficient evidence to say if the message on the 11 May was sent before or after the 
account was settled. Santander havent provided an explanation as to why arrears 
communication was sent on 12 May. On balance, as these messages were sent on the day 
and the day after the account was settled, I believe its most likely their records werent 
updated yet to take the full settlement into account. I can see Santander explained to Mr M 
in a subsequent call on 13 May that he could disregard the arrears messages so Im 
satisfied this was made clear to him quickly without a long period of worry so I dont believe 
its fair to say Santander should pay compensation. 
Overall, Im satisfied Santander treated Mr M fairly in light of his financial difficulties and they 
applied the FCAs guidance in line with what I would expect. So I wont be asking them to 
take any further action in resolution of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman