DRN-3577161
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to provide him with appropriate 
advice, or information, about making additional contributions to his pension savings.
What happened
Mr Ss complaint relates to advice that was given to him in June 1992, October 1996, and 
May 2000. That advice was provided by a representative of Friends Provident. But that firm 
is now the responsibility of Aviva. So it is Aviva that needs to deal with this complaint. For 
ease, in this decision, I will simply refer to Aviva throughout.
Mr S has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company. But, 
again for ease, in this decision I will generally refer to all communication as having been 
with, and from, Mr S himself.
Mr S is a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS). In 1992 he was provided 
with advice by Aviva about making additional pension contributions. Aviva recommended 
that he should make free standing additional voluntary contributions (FSAVCs) to a 
personal pension plan. And, in October 1996 and May 2000, Aviva recommended that Mr S 
should increase the amount he was paying in FSAVCs each month. On each occasion Mr S 
accepted the advice hed been given by Aviva.
When Mr S first made his complaint Aviva said that part of it had been made too late. It said 
that more than six years had passed since Mr S had been given advice in 1992 and 1996. 
And it said that the advice it gave to Mr S in 2000 should have made him aware that there 
might have been omissions in the information hed previously been given. So it said that it 
wasnt able to consider the complaint about the first two sales, and that meant this part of the 
complaint wasnt something that we could consider either.
Aviva told Mr S that it thought it had met its regulatory responsibilities when it gave him 
advice in May 2000. It said that it thought its recommendation to pay FSAVCs was suitable 
for his circumstances, and that it had given him comparative information about paying 
additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) to the OPS instead. So it didnt think that aspect 
of Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. Mr S didnt agree with what Aviva had said so brought 
his complaint to us.
Mr Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She agreed with Aviva that 
the complaint about the first two sales had been made too late  so she didnt think we could 
consider those parts of the complaint. And she thought that the advice Aviva had given to 
Mr S in May 2000 had been appropriate and in line with its regulatory responsibilities. So the 
investigator didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong or that the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr S didnt agree with those conclusions. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr S and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I will first deal with Avivas objection about the timeliness of Mr Ss complaint about the first 
two sales.
The relevant time limits 
When looking at a complaint, the time limits I must consider and which I have to apply are 
those set out in DISP 2 of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. The particular 
rule thats relevant here is DISP 2.8. 
DISP 2.8 says: 
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service: 
(2) more than: 
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later) 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint; 
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint 
having been received; unless: 
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R 
or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances; or 
(4) the Ombudsman is required to do so by the Ombudsman Transitional Order; or 
(5) the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the complaint where the 
time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R have expired. 
Aviva has consented to us considering Mr Ss complaint about the advice he was given in 
May 2000. So in this part of my decision I will only be looking at the first two sales.The six-year period and what this means for Mr Ss complaint 
Mr S has complained that the advice Aviva gave to him was inappropriate. So for the 
purpose of these rules, he had six years from the date the advice was provided, in 
June 1992 and October 1996, in order to complain. 
Mr S didnt complain until March 2021. So its clear that he complained more than six years 
after the events hes now complaining about took place.
The three-year period - Does this provide Mr S with longer than six years from when 
the advice was provided in order to complain? 
Even though Mr S complained more than six years after the events hes now complaining 
about, this isnt the end of the matter. 
This is because the DISP rules can potentially provide Mr S with longer than six years to 
complain, as long as he complained within three years of when he was aware, or he ought 
reasonably to have been aware, he had cause to. So Ive considered when Mr S was aware, 
or he ought reasonably to have been aware, he had cause to complain.
When did Mr S become aware he had cause for complaint? 
Mr S says he only became aware he had cause to complain in November 2020. This was 
when he saw an advertisement on social media about pensions mis-selling. 
Is it the case Mr S ought reasonably to have been aware of cause for complaint more 
than three years before he complained? 
While Mr S complained within three years of when he says he had actual awareness of his 
cause for complaint, this doesnt, on its own, mean he complained within the three-year part 
of the time limit. 
I say this because there are effectively two parts to the three-year limb of the time limit. 
Theres a subjective part, which relates to Mr S himself - i.e. when did he actually become 
aware he had cause to complain. But theres also an objective part relating to when the facts 
of the case suggest that he ought reasonably to have been aware of his cause to complain. 
So although Mr S may not have realised he had cause to complain until he came across 
information about pensions complaints in 2020, it still might be the case that he ought 
reasonably to have known this earlier  i.e. because the facts of the case indicate that a 
reasonable person in his circumstances should really have known they had reason to 
complain. 
Aviva has said that any deficiencies in the advice it gave Mr S in 1992 and 1996 would have 
been apparent when it gave compliant advice to Mr S in May 2000. It says it is at that point 
that Mr S ought to have reasonably been aware of his cause to complain. So, at this stage, 
I think I should now consider what happened in 2000, and why that might have caused Mr S 
to be concerned about the earlier advice.
In order to decide this part of the complaint, I need to consider whether Aviva complied with 
the applicable regulatory guidance in place at the time of the advice. This advice was provided by Aviva in May 2000. So the relevant regulatory guidance was 
contained in the May 1996 Regulatory Update 20 (RU20), which was produced by the 
Personal Investment Authority, one of the predecessors to the current regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority. RU20 gave guidance on the procedures for advising clients on 
the relative merits of FSAVCs and AVCs provided by occupational pension schemes. The 
guidance set out different requirements depending on whether the adviser was an 
independent financial adviser or a tied adviser  one who is employed by, or contracted to, 
one organisation and can only recommend and sell that organisations products. In this case 
the adviser was tied so he was unable to specifically advise Mr S that he should make 
payments to an AVC plan rather than the firms FSAVC option.
For tied advisers, RU 20 indicated that before selling an FSAVC advisers should:
draw the clients attention to the in-house alternative;
discuss the generic differences between the two routes (taking account, among other 
things, of the features described in this article); and
direct the client to his employer, or to the OPS, for more information on the in-house 
option.
Among the features referred to in the article were that charges under in-house AVCs would 
usually be lower. In particular the article said;
Charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under FSAVCs, 
reflecting economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to administration 
expenses by the employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this is likely 
to exert the greatest impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the 
client
The regulator indicated that it would expect the advice file to have documentary evidence 
demonstrating that the procedures in the update had been followed.
So Aviva needed to make Mr S aware of the in-house AVC plan and to discuss the generic 
features of the in-house options and of the FSAVC. The key difference I wouldve expected 
Aviva to discuss with Mr S would be the likelihood of lower charges for the in-house AVC. 
I would also expect Mr S to have been directed to his employer and/or occupational pension 
scheme trustee to obtain more information on his in-house options.
The document that was given to Mr S containing the advice made no mention of the 
possibility of him paying AVCs instead. By its nature, since the advice was simply to 
continue with an existing FSAVC arrangement, albeit with increased monthly contributions, 
the advice document was brief. But, in order to be persuaded that the advice Mr S was given 
was suitable and compliant, I would need to see evidence of a discussion about the AVC 
option.
The advice that was given to Mr S was preceded by at least three meetings. So it is likely 
that the discussions of his options were extensive But, without a recording or transcript of 
those meetings, I cannot be sure what was discussed. So I need something further to 
persuade me that Mr S was made sufficiently aware about the AVC alternatives.
The advice that was given to Mr S in May 2000 was subject to an internal compliance check 
around three months later. As a result of that check Aviva identified that it wasnt clear from 
the paperwork whether a discussion had taken place about the AVC alternatives. So it 
sought further information from the advisor. The advisor confirmed that a full discussion had taken place, and Mr S had been given some printed information about the differences 
between an AVC and a FSAVC scheme. Ive reviewed that document and Im satisfied it is 
sufficient to provide Mr S with the generic comparison he needed of the two alternatives. 
And I can see that it suggested he might contact the OPS scheme trustees or his employer if 
he needed more information about the AVC option.
In August 2020 the advisor sent a letter to Mr S. That letter apologised for the omission that 
had been made in the advice letter, in not confirming the discussions about the AVC 
scheme. I can see that letter was sent to Mr Ss normal address. And I havent seen 
anything that makes me think it wasnt received.
Had the content of the letter come as a surprise to Mr S, and there had been no previous 
discussion about the AVC alternatives, I think Mr S might have questioned what had been 
sent. So, on balance, I think a discussion had taken place. And I think it most likely that 
Aviva did what was required by the relevant regulations when it provided Mr S with further 
advice about his pension contributions in May 2000.
The documentation from the earlier sales provides a plausible reason for Mr S to prefer 
making payments to a FSAVC plan rather than an AVC scheme provided by his employer. 
Mr S was making the contributions with a view to being able to retire early. And the 
documentation from the time indicates that he had expressed concerns that making those 
plans known to his employer might lead to some discrimination in the future. So, although his 
employers pension scheme administrator would most likely have been informed that Mr S 
was making FSAVC payments, it is likely that information wouldnt have been passed to his 
employer. But, making AVC payments by a salary deduction, would have been something 
that Mr Ss employer would have seen.
So I think that the information Aviva provided in May 2000 met the regulatory responsibilities 
of a tied advisor to make Mr S aware that he could make use of an AVC scheme as well as 
the recommended FSAVC plan, and that there might be advantages in doing so, especially 
in relation to the costs of the plan. And I dont think that recommending Mr S to make, or in 
this case increase, additional pension contributions was inappropriate.
Aviva has been unable to show, from the paperwork it holds, that the earlier sales were 
similarly complaint. But I am satisfied that, by May 2000 at the latest, Mr S was sufficiently 
aware that he could alternatively make AVC payments, and of the differences between the 
two schemes. And, had he found the potentially cheaper AVC option to be attractive, he 
would have been in a position to complain about any earlier omissions at that time. So I think 
the compliant information Mr S was given in May 2000 ought to have reasonably made him 
aware of his cause to complain. 
Mr S hasnt made me aware of any other, exceptional, circumstances that delayed his 
complaint. So I think Mr Ss complaint about the first two pieces of advice has been made 
too late.
The meetings Mr S held with Aviva were also attended by his wife. She also received similar 
advice, and has made a complaint about what Aviva recommended. That complaint has 
been upheld by an investigator, and Aviva had accepted that assessment. So it has offered 
to pay Mr Ss wife some compensation. Mr S says that complaint being upheld means that it 
is illogical for us to conclude that his complaint shouldnt succeed.
Each complaint is assessed on its own merits. I am satisfied that there are sufficient 
differences between the circumstances of the two complaints for my outcome to be 
reasonable. And I would note that Mr Ss wifes complaint wasnt decided by an ombudsman  Aviva accepted the investigators findings. I dont find myself at all bound by any findings 
on the other complaint.
In summary I think that the advice, and information, Aviva gave to Mr S in May 2000 was 
appropriate. And I think that information ought to have reasonably made Mr S aware of any 
deficiencies in the advice hed previously been given in 1992 and 1996.
My final decision
I think that Mr Ss complaint, about the advice given to him in 1992 and 1996 has been made 
too late. Those two pieces of advice arent therefore something that this service can 
consider.
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint about the advice given in 
May 2000 or make any award against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman