DRN-4333934
The complaint
Mr K complains that Epayments Systems Ltd stopped him from accessing the funds in his 
account. Hed like to be compensated for this.
What happened
The facts of this complaint dont appear to be in dispute between both parties, so I dont see 
any benefit in repeating them in full here. Briefly, In February 2020 Epayments were required 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to stop processing transactions while a review was 
carried out. Because of this Mr K couldnt access the funds in his Epayments account. 
The restrictions were lifted in February 2022, and the funds were returned to Mr K. But he 
was unhappy with the length of time that the funds had been held  saying hed lost out on 
the value of them due to inflation. He referred the complaint to our service, asking to be 
compensated for this.
Our investigator agreed that Epayments were ultimately responsible for the limitations 
placed on the account. He suggested Epayments should add 8% simple interest per annum 
on the balance of the held funds for the time Mr K couldnt access them. He also suggested 
£150 compensation for the inconvenience. Mr K accepted this, but Epayments disagreed. 
They put forward a counteroffer, which Mr K declined.
Epayments said that their terms allowed them to withhold funds. They said as an electronic 
money institution (EMI) they cannot pay interest. They said to award 8% interest, our service 
would have to be satisfied that Mr K would have put these funds either with another EMI, or 
with an investment generating returns of that amount. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that for the period Epayments were under restrictions from the FCA they were 
holding Mr Ks funds. The reasons for this have been publicised widely, and ultimately these 
were down to failings on Epayments part. 
For Mr K the impact was that he couldnt access his funds for a considerable period of time  
approximately two years  through no fault of his own. Theres no suggestion here that Mr K 
would have had access to his account restricted otherwise. This impact is solely down to the 
Epayments failures that led to the restrictions from the FCA. So, in the circumstances I think 
its right that Epayments compensate him appropriately.
The investigator has suggested adding 8% simple interest to the balance. Ive considered 
what Epayments have said about the award. I cant say for certain what Mr K would have 
done with the funds, had they been available to him. There are no specific losses claimed, 
but the 8% interest award isnt intended to cover solely investment income lost out on.
Im satisfied that Mr K has been deprived of his funds for a considerable amount of time  
funds that he should have had access to, to use as he would see fit. Over the two years he 
would have had numerous opportunities to make use of the funds, had they been available 
to him. So, the award of 8% interest is to reflect the cost of being deprived of these funds, 
and I see it as reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint to apply it here.
Ive also considered the non-financial impact on Mr K from having his account blocked for so 
long. Epayments have said they kept him updated, but even so Mr K will have been 
distressed and inconvenienced by the block I consider £150 would be a fair amount.
If Mr K has received any current conversion fees or commission when Epayments refunded 
him the balance on the account, then Epayments should refund this to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that Epayment Systems Ltd must:
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the balance of his account from 
11 February 2020 to the date the funds were returned to him.
Refund and currency conversion fees, or other fees and charges applied during the 
refund process
Pay him £150 compensation
Epayments must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date we tell them Mr K has 
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of this decision to the date of settlement, at a rate of 8% simple 
interest per year.
If Epayments is required by HMRC to deduct income tax from any interest award, they 
should tell Mr K how much has been deducted and provide a certificate showing so if he 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman