DRN-3903608
The complaint
S complains that Hubener Versicherungs AG declined its claim on its commercial property 
insurance policy.
Mr N is a partner of his business - S - and brings the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr N is the partner of the business S - a restaurant in the basement of a building. Mr N had a 
commercial insurance policy underwritten by Hubener to cover S and its premises. In 
December 2020 there was a fire at the restaurant and Mr N made a claim. 
Hubener declined the claim. It said that Mr N had breached two conditions of the policy that 
may have led to the fire. 
One required him to have all electrical equipment tested by a contractor approved by a 
particular organisation  Ill refer to them as N. And the other condition required all 
combustible refuse and waste to be removed from the building each night. It said as the 
electrical certificates were provided by a contractor approved by a different organisation, 
these werent valid under the policy. And there was evidence of waste remaining in bins 
overnight at the time of the fire, so the second endorsement had also been breached. 
Mr N didnt think this was fair. He said that he had provided proof of electrical testing by a 
contractor that had been certified by a different government approved organisation. So he 
didnt think it was fair for Hubener to decline his claim on the basis that equipment hadnt 
been tested. And he said that if the fire was caused by an electrical fault, then the fact the 
waste hadnt been emptied had no impact on the start or the spread of the fire. So as it 
wasnt material to the claim it wasnt fair for Hubener to rely on the condition to decline it. 
He complained, but Hubener didnt change its position on the claim. So Mr N brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said she didnt think it fair that 
Hubener relied on the electrical testing condition, as Mr N had demonstrated that he had got 
the equipment tested and that the contractors were approved by a different, but similar, 
government approved agency. She also didnt think there was any evidence that the waste 
had caused the fire to start or spread, so didnt think this contributed to S losses. And 
therefore didnt think it fair Hubener relied on that condition either. 
To put things right, she thought Hubener should reconsider the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions and reimburse S for its losses. She also thought it 
should pay 8% simple interest on any amounts paid from the date S paid for the amounts 
until settlement is made, to make up for S being without the funds. 
Mr N accepted our investigators outcome, however Hubener didnt. It said there was some 
evidence that the fire started in the waste paper bin, so didnt agree it was unfair for it to rely 
on the waste removal condition. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made, its first for the insured to show that there is an insured 
peril  something thats covered under the policy. Its then for the insurer to either accept the 
claim or show that an exclusion or condition in the policy applies.
At this service, its for us to decide if the insurer has made a fair and reasonable decision by 
declining the claim. To do this we will consider the policy terms and conditions. However 
wed usually only say it was fair for a business to decline a claim due to the breach of a 
condition, where we think it most likely that the breach was material to the loss being 
claimed for. So where if it hadnt been for the breach, then the loss may not have happened, 
or may have been less. And we decide this based on the balance of probabilities. 
Here, as Hubener has relied on two conditions to decline S claim, Ive considered each of 
these in turn. 
Electrical testing
The condition Hubener has relied on is as follows:
704: Electrical Circuit Maintenance Condition
It is a condition precedent to Our liability that a current and valid electrical certificate has 
been issued for the Premises and that all electrical circuits will be inspected and tested once 
every three years by a contractor approved by [N]
Here, N is an organisation that provides certification to contractors who carry out electrical 
testing of appliances. N is one of several similar organisations that has the approval of the 
UK government to carry out these checks. 
Mr N has accepted that he didnt have an N approved contractor inspect the electrical 
appliances. However he has provided Hubener with proof that the appliances were tested in 
line with the rest of the endorsement. And that the contractor who carried out the testing had 
the approval of K a different, but similar, certification body that also has approval from the 
UK government. 
So while Mr N didnt have an N approved contractor check the appliances, and therefore 
didnt meet the requirements of the endorsement, I dont think this was material to the loss. 
As he did have certification from a K approved contractor. And as K also offers the same 
kind of certification and is an organisation certified by the UK government, I think it most 
likely that the contractor would have provided the same level of checks as a contractor 
certified by N. So I dont see that having the certification provided by an N approved 
contractor, rather than a K approved contractor would provide any greater protection to S or 
would have prevented or lessened the loss.
I therefore dont think it fair or reasonable for Hubener to rely on this condition to decline the 
claim. 
Waste removalThe condition Hubener has relied on here is as follows:
701: Daily Waste Condition
It is a condition precedent to Our liability that all combustible trade waste and refuse is 
removed from the Buildings every night.
In the forensic report following the fire, it is noted that there are remains of non-combustible 
materials in the waste paper bin nearest to the seat of the fire. And there was waste found in 
other bins at the premises that evening. Based on this, I think it likely that this condition had 
been breached and waste material hadnt been removed overnight at the time of the fire. 
However I also need to consider whether the breach of the condition was material to the 
loss. And on balance, I dont think it was.
The forensic report speculates that its possible the fire started from a discarded cigarette 
end in the waste bin, and states Such a mechanism could potentially explain a fire. And it 
goes on to comment that used cigarette butts were found outside the restaurant doors. 
However the report also says I found no evidence of used smokers materials on surfaces 
within the restaurant.. It isnt unusual for staff members to use external areas to smoke 
during breaks. However considering smoking indoors is prohibited by law, I dont think it 
follows that finding cigarette butts outside the building makes it likely that staff members 
would use or discard these indoors. 
Further the report provides no evidence, or conclusion, that this was the case, just 
speculates that it could explain a fire. 
Based on this, I think on balance it is unlikely that the breach of the waste removal 
endorsement was material to the claim either. There is no evidence to suggest that the fire 
started within the bin, and as the fire was contained to a small area of the restaurant, there is 
also no evidence that it cause the fire to spread, increasing S losses.
For these reasons I dont think it fair or reasonable for Hubener to rely on this condition to 
decline the claim.
Putting things right
For the reasons described above, I dont think Hubener has acted fairly by declining S claim. 
I therefore agree with our investigator that it should re-consider the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions without applying either the waste removal or electrical 
testing conditions. 
If the claim is accepted under the remaining conditions, it should reimburse S costs it has 
incurred for repairs and replacements due to damage caused by the fire.
It should also pay 8% simple interest on any amounts paid, from the date S paid for the 
repairs until the date settlement is made. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold S complaint. I require Hubener Versicherungs AG to:
Re-consider S claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions without applying 
either the waste removal or electrical testing conditions.If the claim is accepted under the remaining conditions, it should reimburse S for any 
work carried out in relation to restoring the premises following the fire.
Pay 8% simple interest on all amounts paid from the date S originally paid for the 
work to be completed until Hubener pays the settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N, on behalf of 
S, to accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman