DRN-3071164
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Bailey Richards Wealth
Management Limited (BRWM) to transfer deferred benefits from his Defined Benefit (DB)
pension with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In July 2016, Mr W contacted a financial adviser firm (Firm A) for advice on his pension as 
he was concerned about the PPF and the security of his pension. They completed some of 
the initial paperwork for Mr W, but as they didnt have the relevant permissions to advise on 
a pension transfer they referred him to BRWM for advice. 
A fact find, risk profiler and a retirement options form were completed by Firm A in July 2016
which showed:
Mr W was nearly 40, married with two non-dependent children, and in good health. 
He earned £24,200 per year. He and his wife had an outstanding mortgage of around 
£81,000, loans totalling £16,000, and £1,500 in cash savings. 
Other than the BSPS pension, Mr W had a group personal pension (GPP) worth 
around £30,000 and his wife had a final salary pension of her own. Mr W was also 
planning to join the new company defined contribution (DC) pension scheme in 
September 2016.
Mr W was convinced the BSPS would not have the funds to pay him a pension by the 
time he reached retirement due to underfunding.
Being many years from retirement meant he could afford higher risk with his pension 
in the early years and could review this closer to retirement. His attitude to risk was 
recorded as highest medium or a 7 on a scale from 1-10. BRWM later categorised 
him as moderate to adventurous.
He had no idea when he would retire. But he would like to work until 60 if he could 
afford to retire then.
A suitability report dated October 2016 shows BRWM recommended Mr W to transfer his 
BSPS benefits to his existing GPP and consolidate his pensions.
Mr W complained to BRWM in 2020 about the advice he received. He said it wasnt suitable. 
BRWM rejected his complaint. Mr W referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators upheld his complaint. He agreed BRWM had given unsuitable advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. BRWM
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in
Mr Ws best interest. (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not
satisfied the transfer was in his best interest. Ill explain why.
financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The investment return required to match the DB pension at retirement at age 65 (critical
yield) was 10.63% per year if benefits were taken in full or 9.29% if taken as a lump sum
payment with a reduced pension. The equivalent critical yields to match the benefits
available if BSPS moved to the PPF were 8.84% and 8.65% at age 65.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and it
was 4.6% per year for 24 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection
rate 2% per year. I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the 
discount rate, Mr Ws medium-high attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. And I 
think Mr W was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB 
scheme at retirement (even if the BSPS moved to the PPF). I think its highly unlikely Mr W 
could have achieved returns above the regulators highest projection rate every year until 
retirement, particularly as he would likely reduce his investment risk the closer he got to 
retirement.
BRWM says the critical yield is of limited relevance as Mr W was not planning to take an 
annuity with his pension funds. However, the critical yield does still give a good indication of 
the value of benefits Mr W was giving up and the regulator deems it an important part of the 
decision-making process. I also note that BRWM said themselves in the suitability report that 
the decision to transfer was only made on the critical yields, then they wouldnt have 
recommended the transfer. 
In summary, even if BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Ws benefits were reduced, he 
was very unlikely to match, let alone exceed his benefits by transferring to a personal 
pension. By transferring his pension it was highly likely Mr W would be financially worse off 
in retirement. So based on the above alone, a transfer wasnt in Mr Ws best interest.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overalllower benefits. I considered below whether such other reasons applied here.
flexibility and death benefits
Mr W was many years from retirement and wouldnt have known what benefits he might 
need in retirement and when he would start taking them. Flexibility sounds attractive, but I 
cant see that he had any concrete need for it. From what Ive seen Mr W also had no real 
plans for early retirement. However, even if he could afford to do so nearer the time, early 
retirement was possible in the PPF and with lower reduction factors than BSPS.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. However, whilst death benefits might be 
important for consumers, there generally shouldnt be a disproportionate emphasis on this 
compared to their own retirement needs. And the existing death benefits with BSPS were not 
to be underestimated. Mr Ws wife would have received a guaranteed spouses pension for 
life which would have been valuable if Mr W predeceased her. Mr W was young and in good 
health and so more focus should have been on ensuring Mr W would receive the best 
possible retirement benefits over a long period of time.
In any event Mr W had a GPP and was about to join his employers DC scheme which would 
have allowed him to accrue benefits for many years. He could have used these pensions 
flexibly from age 55 if he wished to do so. He also could have left lump sums from these 
pensions to his wife and children is this is what he wanted. So there was no need to give up 
his DB benefits for these reasons. 
concerns about financial stability of BSPS
In my view BRWMs key justification for the transfer was that Mr W was really concerned 
about his employers financial situation and that they might not be able to pay his pension 
once he got to retirement age. 
Lots of his colleagues at the time were transferring out of the scheme and he was worried 
his pension would end up in the PPF. He said this is why he wanted to move the pension 
into his control. He was also worried he could not transfer in future if the BSPS had moved to 
the PPF. So I think its clear Mr W was worried about the security of his pension (which he 
marked as his priority in the pension transfer questionnaire) and its quite possible that Mr W 
was leaning towards the decision to transfer for this reason.
However, it was BRWMs obligation to give Mr W an objective picture and recommend what 
was in his best interest. Mr W was particularly concerned about BSPS moving to the PPF. 
He was worried he could lose some of his pension. However, as the figures above show, 
even if this happened, Mr W was still likely to be better off not transferring. I cant see that 
this was properly explained to him or BRWM did enough to alleviate these concerns. And 
given that it was in his best interest to stay in the DB scheme, the possible loss of 
opportunity to transfer his pension in future shouldnt have been a significant concern to Mr 
W.
summary
Its possible that Mr W was attracted by the idea of transferring. He might have heard from
colleagues that this is what they were doing and he was very concerned about the possibility 
of his pension falling to the PPF. And I dont doubt that flexibility, control and higher death 
benefits would have also sounded like attractive features. But BRWM wasnt there to just 
transact what Mr W might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really
understand what Mr W needed and recommend what was in his best interest.I appreciate BRWM included some risk warnings in their suitability report. However, this 
doesnt replace suitable advice. Mr Ws fear about the PPF and the security of his pension 
should have been put into perspective. If BRWM had recommended him to stay and 
explained their reasons properly why Mr W would be better off staying in BSPS and that 
going into the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought, I think Mr W likely would have 
followed their advice. 
If Mr W had stayed in the BSPS, he would have shortly after had the choice to move to the 
PPF or transfer to a new scheme, the BSPS2.  So I carefully considered what Mr W likely 
would have done nearly a year later had he been given the choice of either the PPF or 
BSPS2 and placed into an informed position regarding the features, risks and benefits of 
both options. On balance I think Mr W wouldve likely opted for BSPS 2. 
BSPS2 wouldnt have decreased Mr Ws initial entitlement by 10% like the PPF and some of
his benefits would have had potentially higher increases in BSPS2. Under BSPS2, the 
spouses pension would be set at 50% of Mr Ws pension at the date of death, and this 
would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement. So the spouses pension 
would likely have been higher than in the PPF.
Early retirement factors in the PPF were lower and commutation factors for tax free cash 
entitlement were also more favourable under the PPF. However, given that Mr W was many 
years from retirement and had no concrete plans to retire early, I dont think these factors 
would have outweighed the benefits of BSPS2. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. I consider he
would have remained a member of BSPS and subsequently moved to BSPS2. So
calculations should be made on this assumption.
BRWM must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9:
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
BRWM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have beentaken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
In addition BRWM should pay Mr W £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has
caused him.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date
BRWM receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BRWM
to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Bailey Richards Wealth
Management Limited to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above,
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Bailey Richards Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full,
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Bailey 
Richards Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on
the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Bailey Richards Wealth Management Limited pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Bailey Richards Wealth
Management Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr
H can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman