DRN-3552963
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). It insured his 
motability car. He thinks it completed poor repairs and its actions when reviewing those 
repairs caused him stress.
What happened
Following an accident RSA paid to repair Mr Ss car.
In July 2021 Mr S said the cars bumper was now a different colour to the rest of the car.
He spoke to RSA and was unhappy with the call handler.
RSA agreed the call wasnt handled well and paid Mr S £75.
RSA agreed to have the car inspected.
Mr S noted the inspecting engineer, during the assessment visit, spoke privately with the 
representative of the repairing garage.
The engineer found the garage had completed a satisfactory repair. 
Another engineer was appointed to complete another inspection and found the repair 
wasnt satisfactory.
RSA approached the garage to agree to do re-work, it refused.
RSA approached Motability for assistance  it said it was happy with the repair and it 
wouldnt cause any issue for it when the car was returned at the end of the lease.
RSA told Mr S it wouldnt complete any further work on the car.
RSA also apologised for not having let Mr S know beforehand that the garage 
representative would be attending the engineers assesment.
Mr S was unhappy and complained to us. He wanted the car repaired but he also 
explained that he had been very upset by the engineer talking to the garages 
representative. 
During the course of the complaint, Mr S confirmed to our investigator that the car had 
been surrendered at the end of the lease without any issue arising over the repair.
In summary, our Investigator:
Felt £75.00 was fair and reasonable for the upset caused by the call handler.
Noted that RSA was primarily obligated to Motability.
Didnt think RSA had really failed Mr S in what it had done.
So our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S said he was unhappy:
The first inspecting engineer was biased.
RSA hadnt listened to him.
The photos of the car didnt really show a true picture of the colour match issue.
RSA didnt assist him initially when choosing the repairing garage.
Our Investigator told Mr S that his further comments hadnt changed her view. As Mr S 
remained unhappy his complaint was passed for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr S has had a difficult time. I know Mr S would have liked more assistance 
from RSA from the outset. But as Mr S wanted to use a garage that wasnt part of RSAs 
network, I dont think it could reasonably have helped him choose one. 
I know Mr S was unhappy with the call which took place earlier in the claim. RSA agreed it 
was handled poorly and offered £75 compensation. I think that was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
I understand it was upsetting for Mr S, following the repairs being completed, to see what he 
felt was a poor colour match. Whilst photos may not have shown that very well, RSA asked 
an engineer to assess the car. I think that was appropriate.
I understand that it was upsetting for Mr S to see the first inspecting engineer chatting with 
the representative of the repairing garage.
I think RSA should have let Mr S know that the garage representative would need to attend. 
I know Mr S had concerns about the garage. So the situation shouldve been managed 
better by RSA. But I note RSA has apologised. And I think the garage did need to attend. Im 
also not persuaded that the discussion that took place necessarily informed the view the 
engineer reached. Although I appreciate that, for Mr S, it must have seemed that was the 
case. 
I bear in mind that RSA has apologised. And it also agreed to appoint a second engineer to 
assess the repairs again. I think that was a fair and reasonable response in the 
circumstances.
The second inspecting engineer reached a different view to the first. But I dont think that 
shows the first was wrong. Or was likely reached only because of favourable bias towards 
the garage. The colour match issue in question was a very subjective one. It doesnt surprise 
me that two engineers reached different opinions about whether or not the match was 
satisfactory. 
I can see that it was important for Mr S to feel the work had been done properly and to a 
good standard. But I think it is also important to remember that Mr S did not own the car. 
And the owner told RSA it was happy with the repair. The owner said the repair wouldnt 
affect the return of the car at the end of the lease. And the lease has now ended with the car 
being returned without issue.
With regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mr S, I think RSA generally handled 
things reasonably. And where it did make some mistakes, in my view, it has acted to fairly 
and reasonably to make up for them. So Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman