DRN-4075685
The complaint
Miss K has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to properly 
support her when she disclosed she has a gambling addiction
Background
Miss K has said that in 2020 she contacted NatWest to ask if it could block gambling 
transactions on her account as she was gambling compulsively, and it was causing her 
financial problems. She says that at that time she was told there was nothing the bank could 
do to help her.
In February 2021 Miss K rang NatWest to complain that she had discovered, by browsing 
through the banks app on her phone, that it did offer a gambling block. Miss K was upset 
that this hadnt been offered to her previously as she had lost a considerable amount of 
money by this time through gambling. 
The person Miss K spoke to upheld her complaint in February 2021 and confirmed the bank 
shouldve done more to help her and ensured the blocked was added to Miss Ks account. 
Miss K was given a nominal amount of compensation for the mistake. She was also given 
assurances that her account had been flagged to the vulnerable customer teams and some 
information on the support available to her.
In September 2022 Miss K got back in touch with the bank. She explained that she had 
suffered a major bereavement which had resulted in a prolonged period of mental ill health 
and distress. As a result. She had begun gambling heavily and had lost a considerable 
amount of money. She was in debt with lenders, friends and family and had had to sell her 
home to pay this off. She was extremely upset that the bank hadnt properly supported her 
and that gambling transactions had continued to be processed through her accounts despite 
the block being in place. 
NatWest responded by explaining that the block had remained in place and had worked. 
However, the gambling websites Miss K was accessing online were based outside of the UK 
and so the block had failed to recognise them as gambling transactions because the 
merchant code used by these websites is different from the one the UK websites use. It 
explained that at the time the block was applied Miss K was warned it wouldnt necessarily 
stop every gambling transaction she made and so it didnt believe it had done anything 
wrong and didnt uphold her complaint. 
Unhappy with NatWests response Miss K brough her complaint to our service. I issued in a 
provisional decision on Miss Ks complaint on 14 March 2023. In it I said that NatWest had 
failed to provide Miss K with clear and transparent information about how the gambling block 
worked. I found this failure resulted in Miss K experiencing additional distress and upset at a 
time when she was already particularly vulnerable. For those reasons I said I intended to ask 
NatWest to pay Miss K £500 compensation. However, I did agree that the block had worked 
as well as it couldve and so I didnt hold the bank liable for Miss Ks gambling losses. 
I asked both parties to respond with any additional comments by 11 April 2023.
Miss K responded to say while she remained unhappy that NatWest werent be asked to 
refund the gambling transactions on her account she accepted the outcome I had reached. 
NatWest didnt respond to the provisional decision. 
As Ive not received any new information relating to the complaint my findings remain the 
same and I am upholding Miss Ks complaint.
For the sake of clarity I will repeat those findings here. 
My Findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss K contacted NatWest in February 2021 to explain shed found both the gambling 
block and the international payment block on her app she explicitly mentioned the fact she 
was using international gambling websites as she had already self-excluded from using UK 
based websites via GamStop.
Miss K explained that she was going through an enormously difficult time personally, her 
Mum, who provided her with real and direct support, was extremely ill and in hospital. The 
country was under lockdown, and Miss K was gambling heavily.
The person Miss K spoke to was extremely sympathetic to the problems Miss K was 
experiencing and apologised for the lack of support Miss K had received from the bank to 
date. She openly told Miss K that she was disgusted, and appalled by the lack of support 
she had received when she had first contacted the bank in 2020 and said that there were 
mechanisms in place to stop the payments from going through. 
She told Miss K about the gambling block and also mentioned the Visa Dispute Team which 
she told Miss K could be contacted to stop payments to gambling merchants if the gambling 
block didnt work. She went on to tell Miss K that the bank had completely failed her and 
that going forward the gambling block would be in place to help her. She then went on to 
arrange a refund of £66.01 in charges previously applied to Miss Ks account as well as £40 
compensation for the upset caused. 
Having listened to all the calls between Miss K and the advisor in February 2021 when the 
block was applied, I do agree the advisor said that the block may not work on every single 
transaction. However, I dont think the limitations of the block were adequately explained so I 
can understand why Miss K finished the call with the assurance that there was support in 
place to prevent her from gambling online. While the advisor does say that one may slip 
through she never expressly mentioned that the block wont be useful for international 
websites, which is what Miss K had specifically mentioned in her complaint at that time. But 
she does use very robust language in all the calls she has with Miss K and so I can 
understand why Miss K felt that going forward she would have extra levels of protection in 
place to prevent her from gambling online. 
Following the call in February there was additional contact between Miss K and the same 
advisor in April 2021 which resulted in Miss K receiving a letter that acknowledged Miss K 
had asked about international gambling transactions. However, the letter only goes on to 
explain when the block will work and how. It never mentions the fact that the block wont 
work on international transactions. Indeed, other than repeating the query from Miss K at the 
start of the letter, it never mentions them again at all. Sadly, Miss Ks Mum passed away sometime after this and as a result of her loss, Miss Ks 
mental health spiralled and she became extremely unwell. During this period she again 
resorted to online gambling as a coping mechanism and lost substantial amounts of money. 
When Miss K contacted NatWest in September 2022 she spoke to an advisor who finally 
explained exactly how the gambling block works, what a merchant code is, and why the 
international transactions wouldnt be stopped by it. But this information shouldve been 
given to Miss K when she contacted the bank in February 2021, if not arguably in 2020, 
when she contacted it for the first time. She also offered to provide Miss K with a more basic 
style bank account which may limit the types of transactions she could complete online thus 
adding an extra layer of protection. Miss K asked whether this sort of account was available 
when she had contacted the bank first and was told it was. But there was no explanation as 
to why she hadnt been offered it previously. 
The failure of NatWest to properly explain how the block worked, what its specific limitations 
are and what sort of support, it could offer (including more basic account options) has had a 
devastating impact on Miss K.  She seemed to be of the belief that her account was being 
monitored and that the gambling transactions would be seen and prevented. But this was 
never the case. And its not something the bank would be expected to do. However, its vital 
that businesses are clear with what is and isnt possible when consumers ask for help. 
Especially when they are as vulnerable as Miss K was. 
For those reasons Im upholding Miss Ks complaint. I do agree that the block worked as well 
as it couldve; it was never going to stop her from being able to gambling via international 
websites. But NatWest failed Miss K by not properly explaining what the limitations around 
the block were, in particular with non-UK transactions. And it did this at a time when Miss K 
had been extremely open and honest about the difficult situation she found herself in as well 
as the distressing time her family was going through. 
Putting things right
So with that in mind, NatWest should pay Miss K £500 compensation for the distress and 
upset caused by its failure to provide her with clear and transparent information about its 
gambling block. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Miss Ks complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman