DRN-2714825
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Soteria Insurance Limited, trading as Co-op Insurance (Co-op) 
declined his claim under his motor insurance policy following a theft and further damage to 
his car.
What happened
Mr W took out comprehensive motor insurance in January 2020. In April 2020, he contacted 
Co-op and made a claim after his vehicle was stolen from a garage forecourt when he was 
purchasing petrol. 
Mr W had left the keys in the ignition, with the roof of his car down and music on. When 
returning to the car after paying for his petrol, a car pulled up alongside Mr Ws car, an 
individual jumped into his car and drove Mr Ws car away. The police were immediately 
notified by the garage attendant. 
The car was found by the police a few days later. The key was missing, and it was unclear 
what condition the car was in. The car was towed away and was placed in private storage 
and was eventually returned to Mr W in December 2020 in a damaged state. Co-op declined 
to cover the claim as Mr W had left the keys in the car with the roof down, the policy 
excluded cover in such circumstances, and it said that it therefore couldnt provide financial 
assistance in the circumstances.
 
Mr W complained to Co-op as he was unhappy that Co-op wouldnt pay his claim in relation 
to the theft. He was also unhappy as he believed that his car engine had been damaged 
when the car was towed away to be put into storage or when it was returned to Mr W.  
Co-op has maintained the position that it would not cover the claim or damage and Mr W has 
therefore complained to this service.
The services investigator has considered the complaint and has come to the view that, as 
the keys were left in the ignition, Mr Ws wasnt covered by his policy and that Co-op had not 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining his claim. The investigator also said that she 
hadnt seen any evidence that additional damage was caused by Co-op or their agents or 
that inappropriate procedures were used which would have caused this damage. She 
therefore didnt ask Co-op to take any further action.
Mr W remains unhappy with the outcome and the matter has therefore been referred to me 
to consider the matter afresh and to make final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked in particular at all the documents and representations made by Mr W and Co-op 
and Ive listened to all the telephone calls. Im therefore very much aware that the theft and 
the very difficult on-going problems have caused Mr S considerable distress and anxiety. 
As Ombudsman, I must concentrate on the central issue of whether Co-op has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in applying its policy terms and conditions and in dealing with the 
surrounding issues. I know that this will come as a great disappointment to Mr W, however I 
dont consider that Co-op has acted unfairly or unreasonably in all the circumstances and do 
not therefore uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the Co-op policy itself and its terms and conditions. The relevant part of 
Co-ops policy provides an exclusion as follows;
What is not Insured
Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft if the Insured Vehicle is unoccupied and
(i) the ignition keys or other removable ignition control device required to start the Insured
Vehicle are left in or on the Insured Vehicle,
or
(ii) is left with the engine running, or
(iii) is left unlocked and/or any window, roof opening or removable roof panel or hood is left 
open or unlocked.
This is also summarised in the policy as follows; Loss or damage caused by theft will not be 
covered if the Insured Vehicle is unoccupied and it is left unlocked, or with the ignition keys 
in or on it, or with the engine running, or with any opening roof or window left open.
The police investigated the matter and confirmed that, unfortunately, the CCTV footage 
didnt assist, as it didnt show the theft clearly due to the position of the car and distances 
involved.
Mr W has acknowledged that the position is as follows; I understand that I was liable for
my initial claim as my vehicle was left unattended... I have nevertheless considered whether 
Mr Ws claim for theft was excluded by his policy as its not entirely clear from the available 
correspondence whether he has fully accepted the investigators view. 
Dealing firstly with the claim for theft therefore. The theft of Mr Ws car must have been an 
extremely distressing experience for Mr W, particularly as the circumstances meant that he 
was unfortunately uninsured. I also very much appreciate that Mr W is a key worker working 
within the community and since the incident, has had to travel to assist people via public 
transport, which he believed placed him at risk during the pandemic. I must nevertheless 
look at this matter impartially and on the evidence.
Dealing with the facts of the case, I firstly deal with the facts surrounding the theft in view of 
the exclusion provisions in the insurance policy. Mr W has given slightly different accounts to 
Co-op as to what occurred. Initially he had said that he was going into the store and as he 
was approaching the door (presumably of the store), he saw a car stop behind his vehicle, 
someone coming out of the car and then entering his own car. In another account, he has 
referred to the incident taking place as he was coming out of the petrol station. Finally, he 
has also stated that he had already returned to his car and was checking his receipt close to 
the passenger side of his car when it was stolen. The police report of the incident records 
that Mr W was paying for his petrol when the car was stolen.
On balance, I think it more likely than not that Mr W was some distance from his car and 
either in the shop or close to the shop when the theft occurred, and that Mr W was not therefore in a position to deter the thief. I reach this conclusion as its likely that the police 
report captures the most accurate account. 
Nevertheless, in all of the accounts, Mr W acknowledges that the car was unoccupied at the 
time of the theft, it was unlocked, its roof was down, and the keys had been left in the 
ignition. All of these circumstances are stated in the insurance policy to be circumstances in 
which cover will be excluded in the event of a theft.
Co-op has referred to what it states to be the clear terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy, 
with the headings marked in bold, as to how a theft claim will be handled if the car is left with 
the keys in the ignition and the roof down. I can also see this exclusion was highlighted in 
the policy summary.
On balance therefore, I think that its fair and reasonable for Co-op to rely on its exclusion 
provisions and I consider that its acted fairly in line with its terms and conditions in declining 
Mr Ws claim on this occasion.
Secondly, I go on to deal with Mr Bs complaint relating to further damage. He remains of the 
strong opinion however that the main damage to his car happened following the theft and his 
car being found by the police; ...my car was fully functional prior to the theft. During the 
recovery process I was informed that the only issues with my vehicle was the missing key, 
number plate, dents and scratches to the vehicle. There was no mention of damage to the 
engine after the evaluation of my vehicle after the vehicle was received at [the] police car 
pound. It was Mr Ws view that as there was no key, the car was pushed and pulled without 
starting the engine following the theft and this is what caused the damage, not any activity in 
connection with the theft itself.
Mr W further highlights that as his car is automatic, it has to be lifted to prevent damage and 
not pulled or pushed. Hed arranged for a garage to examine his car when it was returned to 
him in December 2020 and the garage reported that the engine was faulty, and the cam 
carrier belt was broken. Mr W considered that this damage was as a result of the car being 
pulled in park gear rather than neutral gear due to it being rear wheel drive. He now 
believes the car to be beyond repair and needs a brand-new engine. 
In all the circumstances, I accept that the evidence shows that the car was probably beyond 
economic repair when it was returned to Mr W. The next question for me to decide is when 
that damage occurred.
Co-op stated in its final response in October 2020 that theres no evidence that the
car was damaged when it was being towed and that its more likely that the damage 
occurred during the theft. As to the return of the car to Mr W, it said that the vehicle was 
collected from the police compound on a recovery truck. The car didnt have a key and the 
recovery company didnt drive or start the car. It couldnt comment on how the car was 
initially recovered by the police however. 
The available evidence is as follows. Firstly, an independent inspection had initially been 
arranged by Co-op to determine whether the vehicle was repairable, however this report was 
inconclusive as to the full extent of any damage and only indicated that the car required a 
new steering column and that the damage rendered the vehicle immobile. Secondly, when 
Mr Ws representative made Co-op aware that Mr Ws car had been recovered by the police, 
the police had expressed the view that the car was a total loss. Its not known how the police 
reached this view however.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ws submission that he believes the car was damaged during 
storage or when it was transported to or from storage. I accept its possible the car was damaged after the theft, however for me to require Co-op to pay for repairs or to pay for the 
value of the car if was deemed to be a total loss, Id need to be persuaded that it was more 
likely than not that Mr Ws car was damaged by the insurer or one of its agents.
I appreciate that Mr W has a strong view as to how this damage occurred, however there is 
insufficient evidence to persuade me that the damage was caused by the insurer or one of 
its agents. There are a number of possible scenarios. On the balance of probabilities 
however, the damage is most likely to have occurred at the same time as the more cosmetic 
and visible damage caused during the theft and by the person responsible for taking Mr Ws 
car.
In all the circumstances, Im not satisfied that Co-op acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining to cover the theft and damage to Mr Ws car.
Im aware that this decision will come as a huge disappointment to Mr W, however I do hope 
that it can in some way help to bring closure following a most unfortunate series of events 
which have clearly had a huge emotional and financial impact on him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman