DRN-4457927
The complaint
On behalf of her estate, the late Mrs Ks executors have complained about what it considers 
to have been the advice she was given by Openwork Limited (Openwork) to purchase an 
annuity in 2013. Their complaint is that the late Mrs K was vulnerable at the time of the 
purchase, so she shouldnt have been pressured into making a decision and ought to have 
been given the opportunity to have a family member involved. They have said that the 
advice she received has subsequently caused her civil partner to be financially 
disadvantaged. 
What happened
The late Mrs K held two pensions which, in 2013, she wanted to transfer to another provider 
using an appointed representative of the Openwork network. The idea of the transfer was to 
then purchase an annuity through Openwork on a non-advised basis. In December a total of 
£237,787.92 was transferred to the new provider. Mrs K was approaching 60 years of age at 
that time. During the transfer process Mrs K underwent surgery for a serious medical 
condition.
Following the transfer Mrs K was to receive tax free cash (TFC) of £59,088.13 with the 
residual fund used to purchase a single life annuity with inflation protection and a guarantee 
period of 10 years paid monthly in arrears. The provider that was chosen offered an 
enhanced annuity  due to Mrs Ks medical conditions  of £7,953.84. Openwork received a 
commission payment of £5,761.09.
 
In January 2020 Mrs K entered into a civil partnership and she then updated her will to 
ensure the proceeds went to her partner.
Sadly in July 2020 Mrs K passed away.
  
In November 2022 the late Mrs Ks stepdaughter complained on behalf of the estate about 
the advice given to the late Mrs K. The complaint was that the annuity recommendation was 
unsuitable and had led to a financial loss  as it failed to take into account the late Mrs Ks 
civil partners circumstances at the time. It was suggested that Mrs K was a vulnerable client 
who was suffering with serious medical conditions and was pressured into making a 
decision because of the impending time constraints.
Openwork didnt uphold the complaint making the following points in response:
The reference to its adviser was incorrect as the late Mrs K wasnt given any 
advice. 
It had been made clear to her that the business operated on a non-advised basis. It 
also noted that the late Mrs K could have used an alternative firm if she wanted 
advice or wanted to consider alternative products. 
Although it accepted that undergoing surgery can be a stressful experience, it hadnt 
found any evidence to suggest that Mrs K had been vulnerable at the time of the sale 
because of her medical situation. It hadnt found any evidence of incapacity either 
before or after the surgery and all the post operative communications suggested 
there were no ongoing concerns. 
Regarding the emails that were sent by the adviser up to the date of the surgery  
seemingly pressuring Mrs K  these were sent in response to emails from Mrs K 
requesting information.  And it noted the whole process had taken over three weeks 
and it was Mrs K who contacted it after her operation to progress the annuity 
purchase. 
It thought that Mrs K had discussed her partners situation at the time of the sale and 
had indicated the annuity was only for her as her partner had his own pension 
provision. It also thought the evidence suggested she had  or would be - discussing 
the matter with her partner and had intimated that they would expect to (jointly) 
receive an email from Openwork containing the various options. 
However, no advice was given to Mrs K, so Openwork wasnt in a position to make 
any suggestions of how Mrs K ought to make provision for her partner except to set 
out the alternatives  which it thought it had done. 
In any case the annuity purchase was made over six years ago and it thought the 
complaint had been brought more than three years after Mrs K ought to have been 
aware of a cause to complain. Therefore it believed the complaint had been brought 
outside of the time limits allowed and couldnt be considered by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
The estate then brought the complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into the 
matter. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld and made the following points to 
support his findings:
He didnt think the complaint was made outside of the time limits allowed. While the 
annuity purchase had been made more than six years previously, he hadnt seen any 
evidence of a trigger which meant Mrs K ought reasonably to have been aware of a 
cause for complaint more than three years before her executors brought the 
complaint. He didnt think it was logical that Mrs K ought to have been aware of a 
cause to complain at the point she purchased the annuity as he didnt think she 
would have gone ahead in the first place if she was concerned about the advice.
In terms of the merits of the complaint, he thought Openwork had made it clear to 
Mrs K that it provided a non-advice service and therefore wasnt required to provide a 
recommendation, or to take into account Mrs Ks goals or retirement income needs. 
Openworks role was to source and provide annuity quotes to put Mrs K in an 
informed position to make up her own mind about how she should proceed. He 
thought Openwork did provide enough information and explanation. He said it gave 
Mrs K ample opportunity to raise any queries before she went ahead. 
He thought Openwork, through its initial disclosure document (IDD) and quotation, 
did make Mrs K aware she would (indirectly) pay Openwork for its service. 
He didnt agree that Mrs K had been pressured into making her decision. He noted 
that the providers annuity quotations were only valid for a certain length of time, so 
he thought it was reasonable for Openwork to make Mrs K aware of that fact. He also 
thought Openwork had made it clear that the annuity was enhanced because of her 
medical condition which was set out in the quotation and said, the annuity includes 
an enhancement based on the lifestyle and medical conditions provided to us.
He didnt think the evidence within the phone calls hed listened to demonstrated that 
Mrs K seemed vulnerable in her dealing with Openwork. Based on what hed heard 
he didnt think it was reasonable for Openwork to refuse to help Mrs K and he didnt 
think she would have taken up the offer of additional family support if discussed. He 
noted that Mrs K was clear on her partners position at the time  namely that he had 
his own pension provision, and this annuity was just for her benefit. The representative of the late Mrs Ks estate didnt agree, however, making the following 
points in response:
Mrs K didnt intend to move her smaller pension but was persuaded to do so by 
Openwork when it advised her about the tax position of that pension. By involving 
itself in matters relating to the smaller pension Openwork acted beyond its capacity. 
Openworks adviser should also have explained that any cash that Mrs K invested 
from her pension would also be subject to income tax.
Openwork shouldnt have said it would see if we can get you a better income in 
retirement unless it could substantiate that statement. Theres no evidence to show 
what it was comparing against as Openwork was unaware of the offering of the 
existing providers. 
Mrs K had stated a number of times to the adviser that she had problems with her 
vision because of her condition. She wasnt asked if she was capable of reading the 
number of documents and illustrations that she would be sent, and she was given 
some misleading verbal information  namely that there wasnt a cost attributable to 
Mrs K for the annuity purchase  which she might not have been able to confirm 
through reading the accompanying literature.
It would have been prudent to defer the purchase until after the surgery so that Mrs K 
had clarity on the state of her health. At the very least Openwork ought to have 
suggested that Mrs K had a friend or relative with her on the call. 
Although it was accepted that the proposition was non-advised, Openwork ought, at 
the very least, to have informed Mrs K that there were other options  such as flexi 
access drawdown. 
Mrs K had only started considering her retirement plans when she first became 
aware of her health issues. This should have alerted Openwork to the fact that she 
had event driven vulnerability. But in any case, her initial consideration had only 
been to purchase an annuity with the proceeds of the larger fund, and she wouldnt 
have agreed to transfer the smaller pension unless shed been swayed by the first 
conversation she had with Openworks adviser on the telephone. 
While it wasnt expected that the adviser should undertake a medical assessment of 
Mrs K at the time, more consideration should have been given to her potential 
vulnerability following the disclosure of her medical issues and impending surgery. 
It was clear the annuity was just for Mrs Ks benefit but that didnt take into account 
the information she provided in the second phone call about expenses her partner 
might incur on her death and that there was joint intention to do a few things with 
the TFC. More consideration should have been given to her partners likely position 
on her death.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion so the executors asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. In doing so they provided more details of Mrs Ks 
health post-surgery and reference to the fact that she took some weeks to get over the 
anaesthetic. They also reiterated the following points in relation to the complaint:
Mrs K didnt need to take the 25% tax free lump sum out of the smaller pension as 
this would not be tax efficient.
She wanted to keep the smaller pension as income and shouldnt have been 
influenced otherwise by someone who could only offer one solution.
Openwork failed to recognise Mrs K was vulnerable and in not doing so didnt protect 
her or offer support.
Reference was also made to the regulators guidance on dealing with vulnerable 
clients.
 
The complaint was referred to me for review.My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that this was a complaint we could consider but I didnt think 
it should be upheld. Ill replay my provisional findings  which form part of the final decision, 
in full below.
Is this complaint one we can consider?
In its response to the complaint Openwork said it thought the complaint had been made 
outside of the prescribed time limits. It said the annuity had been purchased more than six 
years previously and the late Mrs K was aware - from the point she effected the annuity, of 
some or all the points raised by the complaint, more than three years before the complaint 
was made. 
The relevant rules regarding time limits are set out in DISP 2. DISP 2.8.2 says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial
Ombudsman Service:
(1) 
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
            reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint
having been received.
So as the annuity was purchased in 2013  more than six years ago  I need to consider 
when the complainant ought reasonably to have become aware that they had cause to 
complain. 
 
Openworks main point here was that the late Mrs K was aware that she wasnt being given 
advice in 2013 and, as the complaint points being raised now were also about things that 
were known in 2013, the complaint should have been raised at that time. But I think 
Openworks position here is illogical as, should Mrs K have been aware of those issues at 
the time, she clearly wouldnt have gone ahead with the purchase or would have least 
delayed going ahead until her concerns had been allayed. 
So Mrs K going ahead with the annuity, and seemingly being happy with the plan according 
to her discussion with the adviser on the telephone, would suggest she had no reason to be 
aware of a cause to complain at that time. 
And looking at the ensuing years until her unfortunate passing, Ive seen nothing to show 
that anything might have triggered an awareness of a cause to complain. Indeed theres no 
evidence to demonstrate any further communication between Mrs K and Openwork after the 
original sale  so its not clear what might have given her a cause to complain during this 
time.Im satisfied the event that triggered the complaint were the issues that arose after Mrs Ks 
death  such as the financial position that her partner was put into because of the way in 
which the annuity was set up. 
The complaint points that have now been raised were based on the executors analysis of 
the circumstances around the original sale which led them to conclude that the advice to 
take out the annuity was unsuitable. Those points comprise the merits of this complaint 
which Ill now go on to consider below. But I dont think the complaint itself has been brought 
outside of the time limits for the reasons Ive given above. 
As to the merits themselves, I dont intend to uphold this complaint which I know is an 
outcome that will disappoint the executors of the late Mrs Ks estate. Ive made a provisional 
decision to allow both parties the opportunity to respond, but Ill set out my reasons below.
Was there any advice given which could be considered unsuitable?
I ought to first explain that throughout this decision Ive referred to an adviser from 
Openwork. But as part of the reasoning in my decision is that I dont think Openwork gave 
any advice during this process, I havent used the term to describe someone that gave 
advice but simply as a generic term for the individual that conducted the telephone 
interview and obtained the illustrations.
The executors have made a number of references to advice that Openwork either should 
have given or did in fact give. So I think its important to establish the grounds on which 
Openwork did interact with Mrs K and what it was obliged to do for her but also wasnt able 
to do. So to establish that position Ive first looked the IDD, which set out Openworks 
services and costs and was emailed to Mrs K at the start of the process. 
Within section three on the first page it said you will not receive advice or a 
recommendation from us. We may ask some questions to narrow down the selection of 
products that we will provide details on. You will then need to make your own choice about 
how to proceed.
This document also set out the costs that Mrs K would have to pay by noting that you will 
pay for our services on the basis of commission. None of the above includes payment for 
any ongoing services, e.g. periodic or ongoing reviews, unless otherwise agreed by us.
Ive also seen a copy of the annuity illustrations that were sent to Mrs K which outlined the 
service Openwork would provide in more detail. They said as discussed because we offer a 
non-advised service we do not charge fees and instead will be paid a commission from the 
provider should you decide to go with them. If you would indeed like us to arrange the 
business for you then please let me know and I will issue the relevant paperwork to you, 
once completed we will arrange a courier to collect that from you at no cost to yourself in 
order to keep all the documentation secure.
And in a covering letter dated 2 December 2013 which Openwork sent after the first 
telephone call it was noted that:
As I explained to you in our telephone call, we offer a non-advice service, which means I've 
asked a number of questions about you, your pension plan(s), your health and your income 
requirements and have used the information you provided to see if we can get you a better 
income in retirement than you are being offered by your existing provider(s). This is the only 
area of your financial situation we discussed.I am not making any recommendations or offering advice regarding any of the options you 
may be considering but I am able to provide information in response to questions you have 
about the products and features so that you are better able to make an informed decision 
yourself. We have access to the whole of the market and therefore approach all the leading 
annuity providers. My research is limited to conventional annuities which provide a 
guaranteed income for life. There are other types of annuities available which generally 
include some form of investment element.
I think this information was quite clear. Mrs K couldnt be given advice under Openworks 
terms of engagement, it could only provide the information she required to decide whether to 
take the proposed annuity terms offered to her.
But Ive also listened very carefully to the two telephone conversations the adviser had with 
Mrs K, and Im satisfied that I havent heard any evidence to support the idea that Openwork 
strayed into giving advice. Mrs Ks family have said that they think the adviser gave advice 
around taxation which influenced her decision to take the second pension which she hadnt 
originally intended to do. But as Ill explain further later, I think any advice  which I actually 
think was just information - was simply to explain that any TFC not taken at the inception of 
any annuity couldnt then be withdrawn later - which was important information Mrs K 
needed to be given. Im satisfied that the adviser simply provided that information and left 
Mrs K to decide if she wanted to take advantage of that benefit with her second, smaller 
pension. I note Mrs K had already said she was open to taking the second pension if it was 
in her interests financially. 
So I dont think theres anything to support the idea that Mrs K was advised here or 
provided with anything other than the relevant information she needed. It was Mrs K that 
initially contacted Openwork for illustrations for alternative annuities which might benefit her 
financially and Im satisfied that Openwork fulfilled that requirement and that it made Mrs K 
aware  before it began the process - of its limitations in how it would go forward in helping 
her.
Should the late Mrs K have been regarded as vulnerable and should her partners situation 
have been taken into account
This is central to the complaint the executors have raised. They have said that Mrs K was 
clearly vulnerable during this process and that even on the day the adviser rang to gather 
relevant information from Mrs K she was due to have major surgery the following day, and 
so the adviser should have delayed the process or at the very least offered her the 
opportunity to have a member of the family or friend to be part of the call. They also think 
she remained vulnerable after the process and suffered from post-surgery problems all of 
which would have affected her capacity to understand and retain information and to make 
such important decisions. 
They maintain that Mrs K had event driven vulnerability and the adviser should have 
recognised this and made the appropriate adjustments and should not have pressured 
Mrs K using the expiry dates of the illustrations as deadlines to conclude the sale quickly. 
They also provided refences to the regulators (current) guidance on dealing with vulnerable 
clients as support for their arguments. 
Ive considered the familys submissions and Ive thought carefully about its representations. 
And although the guidance to which it refers was only first set in 2015  after the advice 
given here  I have taken into account the regulators current definition of vulnerable clients, 
which is someone who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially susceptible to 
harm, particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of care." So Ive taken that 
statement and applied it to the evidence Ive been presented with to determine whether 
Openwork acted fairly towards the late Mrs K in 2013. The executors are right to say that the only basis on which to decide whether Openwork 
acted fairly and appropriately was within the telephone conversations that Mrs K had with the 
adviser. Ive listened to those two calls very carefully and Ill set out below what I think are 
the relevant points from them to support my decision. 
The first call
The first call picked up Mrs Ks initial enquiry. She explained that she was going into hospital 
the following day for surgery which was complicated and she doesnt understand it. She 
explained how the problem was discovered and said that reading through all the notes and 
things I thought Id better mention it. The adviser asked about the prognosis and suggested 
that it would likely enhance the annuity. 
The adviser explained his firms non-advised status. He said he would be gathering 
information which he would use to see if we can possibly get you a better offer in retirement 
than what youre currently being offered.  He explained it offered conventional annuities 
but that there were others available which come with some risk. He referenced the key 
features documents which should already have been emailed out to you   we dont charge 
you apart from commission payments we receive if you should decide to go ahead. 
So in the first instance I think the adviser did set out the service he offered and the cost to 
Mrs K  which wasnt a direct cost to her. I also think he obtained sufficient information about 
Mrs Ks situation and circumstances to judge whether she presented as being vulnerable. I 
didnt hear anything to suggest he ought to have been alerted to a vulnerability which would 
require adjustments to the process at that time  I dont think its necessarily the case that 
the immediate surgery alone meant Mrs K automatically should have been defined as 
vulnerable. 
 
Mrs K had the paperwork available from both pension providers and provided the fund 
values. Im not persuaded that she said she only wanted to annutise one plan, but that she 
only wanted to take the TFC from one plan - as she had a few things to do. This was 
confirmed by the adviser when he asked, are you looking to keep that with (the smaller 
plans provider) while Mrs K confirmed not necessarily if I can get a better deal somewhere 
else.
Im also not persuaded that the adviser did give (misleading) advice or, rather, information 
around the taxation of the plans. He simply explained that if TFC isnt taken at inception it 
wouldnt then be available at a later date  which would of course mean that Mrs K would 
lose access to some TFC and pay more tax overall. However he confirmed that Mrs K could 
do whatever she preferred having simply put her in an informed position regarding the 
availability of TFC. 
In my view Mrs K was able to answer most of the questions put to her except where she 
expressed a lack of knowledge in some complex areas - but which I would expect the 
majority consumers to be unaware of. 
She gave a clear explanation of the two pensions she held, and it was quite clear from her 
references to the detailed information about her plan and circumstances that shed already 
provided in the email she sent to Openwork, that she had looked into this matter and thought 
carefully about it. She did confirm that it was her medical condition which had caused her to 
think about taking her benefits more seriously as she now approached her 60th birthday and 
was looking to reduce her working capacity.  The adviser confirmed that single and joint life pensions were available, but Mrs K said, its 
only for me although she confirmed she had a partner who has his own pension. I dont 
think it was for the adviser to explore which of joint or single life annuities were more 
appropriate as he wasnt making a recommendation based on advice  so he would be 
unaware of the specific circumstances here. But I would expect him to point out that joint 
annuities were available  along with the other features such as guarantee periods and 
escalations, which Im satisfied he did.  
Mrs K did say on two occasions that she had some work to do before the surgery which 
would suggest she was still able to carry out everyday tasks and Im satisfied this included 
sorting out her retirement provision  which had become important to her based on the 
changes in her medical circumstances.   
  
Mrs K did refer to a problem with her eye and double vision, but said the current condition 
wasnt related to that and had now gone away.
The adviser asked about any follow up treatment and Mrs K said they would just keep an 
eye on it and it wasnt likely to be anything major.
I understand the executors point that Mrs K wasnt fully aware of the seriousness of the 
situation or the extent of the surgery, but I think the adviser would have only been able to act 
upon the information he was given, and I think its reasonable that his approach was dictated 
by Mrs Ks tone and manner with him at that time. The executors are right to state that 
Mrs Ks manner only served to demonstrate that she was sound of mind, but I havent 
heard anything to suggest that the adviser ought to have been concerned that she was 
vulnerable at that time, such that the adviser should have taken alternative action.
The adviser said he would send out a variety of quotes and illustrations and some 
information about the process. Mrs K said she wouldnt probably have time to read it today 
and the adviser said there was no rush and its there when you need it. 
Ive set out a number of in depth references to this call to show theres nothing, in my view, 
to support the idea that Mrs K wasnt able to discuss this matter with the adviser. She was 
able to explain the situation  including her understanding of the forthcoming surgery and the 
likely outcome. I think the adviser was clear in his explanation of matters and Ive heard 
nothing to suggest he gave advice outside of his remit which may have influenced her 
decision. 
I think if Mrs K felt at all vulnerable about thinking about her pension provision at that time I 
would have expected her to inform the adviser that she wasnt in a position to do so. The 
evidence Ive seen would support the idea that she was happy to continue the process at 
that time and was able to consider the annuity options she would be provided with following 
the conversation with the adviser  and based on the clear information she provided to him. 
The second call
In this call Mrs K said shed had a look at the figures the adviser had provided and had a 
couple of questions  which I think were quite reasonable in respect of putting herself in an 
informed position. I think the adviser gave a good explanation of the guarantee period  
which then seemed to make Mrs Ks mind up for her. The guarantee option did provide her 
with some protection for her estate in the event of her death (for a limited time) and Mrs K stated as much very decisively and confirmed both the option she preferred, and the 
amounts involved. 
The adviser said he would then have to obtain up to dates quotations because of the 
deadlines imposed within them.  
The executors did make reference to Mrs Ks difficulty in reading at that time as supported 
by her statement that she wasnt really into reading war and peace at the moment. But 
from what Ive heard that reference was in relation to the open market transfer form which 
she was unable to find from the provider and the advisers subsequent statement that 
providers do tend to send war and peace. 
I dont think that was a comment that ought to have alerted the adviser to the fact that she 
might not be able to read the information he had provided. In fact Mrs K had proved that she 
had read Openworks information as she stated she had, and also raised a several questions 
about the content. I think her remark was aimed at the wealth of information she had 
received from the existing providers  although she had clearly been able to extract the 
relevant information from the providers pack in terms of current fund values etc.
The adviser then confirmed back to Mrs K the full details of the options shed chosen.
The second call was clearly designed to wrap things up and put which of the 
recommendations Mrs K preferred in place. I think that if Mrs K hadnt been able to make up 
her mind she would have said so bearing in mind how decisive she seemed at this time. 
Again I cant reasonably say that I heard any advice which may have influenced her 
decision and, following the advisers answer to her questions, she seemed confident in her 
decision and the reasons behind it. 
I note the investigator expressed an opinion that Mrs K appears lucid, engaged, curious and 
decisive in these calls. I think having listened to them carefully that is a description I find 
myself in agreement with. I dont think Openwork either failed to explain its service and costs 
or what it proposed to do for Mrs K, and I dont find that it provided advice it shouldnt have 
done  but simply provided relevant and material information to put Mrs K in an informed 
position. And I dont think it failed, based on the evidence Ive seen and heard, to identify her 
vulnerability to such an extent that it should have either delayed the process or insisted that 
Mrs K was represented throughout.
 
Was the late Mrs K pressured into purchasing the annuity?
I note an additional complaint point was that Mrs K was pressured into taking out her 
annuity. But I have to say Ive seen nothing to support that idea. And I note that the 
transaction was completed in her own time and even when the adviser said that there were 
documents that needed to be returned, it was Mrs K that wanted to send them off as soon as 
possible by recorded delivery- which obviously was understandable in that situation.
 
I dont think theres any reasonable suggestion that the adviser used the deadline dates 
within the illustration to speed up the process or to force Mrs K to make a quick decision.
From what Ive heard I think Mrs K was given the time she clearly needed after her surgery 
to complete the process. Much has been provided about the post-surgery problems Mrs K 
suffered, but I dont think she made reference to any of these issues when the adviser called 
her for the second time. Again I think Mrs K would have alerted the adviser to any medical 
issues she may have experienced which prevented her from making up her mind about 
which option to choose.
The financial position of the late Mrs Ks partnerThe executors say that, as a result of the annuity that was put in place, the late Mrs Ks 
partner has now suffered financially and has been forced to sell their property. And I have 
sympathy for the position the family now find themselves in. But I dont think its fair to say 
that Openwork was responsible for that situation. As Ive said previously Openwork carried 
out a non-advised sale and provided an annuity recommendation based on the information 
the late Mrs K provided. 
Im satisfied the issue of joint and single annuities was raised but it wasnt for Openwork to 
put forward a recommendation around which one Mrs K ought to choose. It established that 
Mrs K had a partner at the time, but she was clear that he had his own provision and this 
annuity should be for her alone. I wouldnt have expected Openwork to develop that 
discussion and make any robust challenges as it wasnt providing advice. Im satisfied the 
matter was raised and the relevant information recorded before Openwork set up the annuity 
options that Mrs K had chosen. 
Responses to my provisional decision
The executors said they had nothing further to add that might change my decision here 
although they continued to believe that this outcome was wrong. 
Openwork said it accepted my findings around the merits of the complaint but continued to 
dispute whether the complaint was within our jurisdiction. It said that, as Mrs K was aware 
that no advice was given to her in 2013, it seemed that a complaint brought nine years later 
about advice, would seem to be out of time. However, it considered this issue to be moot 
given the decision about the merits of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And as neither party provided any further comment or submissions about the merits of this 
complaint. I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. Ill set out my reasons 
below.
As I explained in my provisional decision I thought this was a complaint we could consider. 
Openwork has also accepted that the complaint is within our jurisdiction so Ive only looked 
at the merits of the complaint made by the estate  that the late Mrs K was in a vulnerable 
position when Openwork talked to her about setting up an annuity - and shouldnt have 
pressured her into a decision or should at least have insisted that another friend or family 
member was present during her interactions with Openwork. 
Did Openwork provide advice which might have been unsuitable?
Ive seen copies of number of documents which set out Openworks position and status in its 
dealings with Mrs K. 
Its IDD noted that, you will not receive advice or a recommendation from us. We may ask 
some questions to narrow down the selection of products that we will provide details on. You 
will then need to make your own choice about how to proceed. It also confirmed the 
charges that would apply to Mrs K noting that, you will pay for our services on the basis of 
commission. None of the above includes payment for any ongoing services, e.g. periodic or 
ongoing reviews, unless otherwise agreed by us.I think this was a clear indication of the type of service Openwork would offer Mrs K. There 
was no suggestion of advice, and it was clearly noted that there would be a cost  which 
wouldnt come directly from Mrs K, but by means of a commission payment from the 
provider. This position was further enhanced through the annuity illustration Openwork 
issued to Mrs K which said, as discussed because we offer a non-advised service we do not 
charge fees and instead will be paid a commission from the provider should you decide to go 
with them.
Ive also seen a copy of a letter which Openwork sent to Mrs K on 2 December 2013  after 
its first telephone appointment with her. This also confirmed that the adviser hadnt given 
advice but had simply asked a series of questions designed to help him provide Mrs K with 
the information she needed to make a decision. So I dont think the late Mrs K would have 
been under any illusion that Openwork would be providing her with advice. I think that was 
also supported by the two telephone calls Mrs K had with the Openwork adviser  which Ive 
listened to carefully. I havent heard anything to support the idea that the adviser gave 
advice or tried to influence the late Mrs Ks decision about what to do. 
Im satisfied that Openwork set out the type of service it would provide Mrs K. I think it then 
fulfilled that service by asking questions about her circumstances before providing 
illustrations for her to consider, which I think took into account the information Openwork was 
provided with. I havent seen anything to support the idea that it gave any advice- which it 
had already confirmed it wasnt able to do.
The late Mrs Ks vulnerability 
The late Mrs Ks executors have said that she was in a vulnerable state throughout much of 
the annuity process. They said that she was due to have major surgery the day after she first 
spoke with Openwork and ought to have been offered the opportunity to have some help or 
support with her during the telephone conversations she had. They also provided evidence 
to show that Mrs K suffered from post-surgery problems as well. They said all of this affected 
her ability to retain information and make important decisions.
Ive considered all of the medical evidence thats been provided and also referred to the 
regulators current guidance for businesses when dealing with vulnerable clients  which is 
defined as someone who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially susceptible to 
harm, particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of care." Ive looked at the 
interactions Openwork had with Mrs K to see if it should have done more to identify and help 
with her situation. In particular Ive listened to the telephone appointments, which I think 
were the only real basis on which Openwork could have made such judgements. 
During the first telephone call I was satisfied that the adviser had explained the service 
Openwork would offer and gathered enough information about Mrs K to both help her with 
providing annuity quotations and also to establish any vulnerability. I havent heard 
anything to support the idea that the adviser should have been alerted to a vulnerability 
which might have required adjustments at that time. I also think the adviser gave relevant 
information around the TFC available  not specific advice around taxation as suggested by 
the executors. 
I understand the executors position here and I have some sympathy considering the late 
Mrs K medical situation at the time. But I think Openwork could only have acted on the 
information it gathered and on Mrs Ks own comments and explanations about her 
circumstances. I would have expected Mrs K to have told Openwork if she felt vulnerable 
and not able to make decisions around her pension provision, but the evidence Ive seen 
would support the idea that she was happy to continue and was engaged in the process.  The second telephone call was arranged to discuss the annuity illustrations and answer any 
outstanding questions before setting up the late Mrs Ks preferences as an annuity 
application. The evidence would suggest that Mrs K did ask some questions which were 
answered before she agreed to go ahead. I said in my provisional decision that she 
appeared to be lucid, engaged, curious and decisive. So I dont think there was any 
evidence on which to base a claim that the adviser ought to have identified a vulnerability 
which should either have led to an extension of the application process or an insistence that 
Mrs K was represented throughout. 
I also note Mrs K was keen to pursue her application during the second call and I havent 
seen any evidence to support the idea that the adviser pressured Mrs K into making a 
decision. There were deadlines attached to the illustrations and I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the adviser to make Mrs K aware of them. He also said that he would apply 
for up to date quotations suggesting that Mrs K was given sufficient time to make up her 
mind. 
I know the executors have provided medical evidence to show that Mrs K did have some 
post-surgery complications, but theres nothing to suggest these impacted on her decision 
making process as she didnt make any reference to them during the second call  which I 
would have expected if she considered them to be an issue. But, even if I am wrong in my 
assumption of the late Mrs Ks health at the time, Openwork could only act upon the 
information it was presented with at the time. And, from what Ive seen and heard, there isnt 
sufficient evidence to support the idea that its adviser ought to have considered Mrs K to be 
in a vulnerable situation and make adjustments accordingly  such as additional (family) 
representation, or an extension or even a pause to the process.
The financial position of the late Mrs Ks partner  
The executors told us that the late Mrs Ks partner has recently been forced to sell their 
property and is in a difficult financial position because of the annuity that the late Mrs K took 
out. They said that the lack of provision for her partner has caused this financial hardship, 
and this was a direct result of the lack of advice the late Mrs K received and her 
vulnerability when making her decision about the annuity terms.
As Ive said previously Im satisfied Openwork provided a non advised sale here and so it 
wasnt obliged to make a recommendation which took into account all of the late Mrs Ks 
goals and objectives. So it wasnt obliged to advise Mrs K whether she needed to make 
provision for her partner in the event of her death. It simply needed to ask Mrs K what 
provision she wanted to make, which she answered by saying its only for me confirming 
her partner has his own pension. 
I dont think Openwork needed to explore which annuity was more appropriate for Mrs K in 
those circumstances, but I would expect it to explain the availability of joint life annuities and 
other features such as guarantee periods and escalations. Based on what Ive heard during 
the telephone conversation Im satisfied Openworks adviser did have those discussions. 
So, as I dont think Openwork had any responsibility to advise the late Mrs K about what 
annuity option she should choose, I dont think it can be held responsible for any financial 
problems which may have arisen after Mrs Ks passing because of the particular annuity 
terms that were in place. I do have some sympathy for the position the late Mrs Ks partner 
now finds himself in, but I dont think its fair or reasonable to say that Openwork is 
responsible for that when it didnt provide advice around the annuity options that were 
chosen. My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold the estate of Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs K 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman