DRN-3624883
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Santander UK Plc wont allow them to take a new interest rate 
on their mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F have a mortgage with Santander. 
At the start of the coronavirus pandemic, in early 2020, Mr F lost his job and began to claim 
universal credit. Mrs F was unable to work at this time because of a disability and so they 
began to struggle with the mortgage payments.
Mr and Mrs F spoke to Santander and agreed a three month payment deferral, later 
extended for a further three months.
At the end of the deferral period Mr F was still out of work and they agreed a reduced 
payment arrangement with Santander. They agreed to pay £500 per month (against a 
contractual monthly payment of around £900). But because they were paying less than the 
full mortgage payment, they fell into arrears
In June 2021, Mr F found another job. By this time the arrears were around £4,500. 
Mr and Mrs F resumed making their full mortgage payment, and agreed with Santander an 
arrangement to pay £50 a month towards the arrears. 
The interest rate on Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage expired in November 2021, and so a few 
months before that they got in touch with Santander to ask for a new interest rate. They 
complain that Santander has refused to offer them a new rate. They say it told them they 
could not have a new rate until they had cleared the arrears in full. And it wouldnt consider 
capitalising the arrears until they had made six months of payments. But without a new 
interest rate, their mortgage would revert to Santanders follow on rate, and their monthly 
payments would increase to an unaffordable level.
Following Mr and Mrs Fs complaint, Santander offered them a fixed rate of 1.99% and to 
capitalise the remaining arrears. Mr and Mrs F accepted that, because they felt they had no 
choice. But they still didnt think theyd been treated fairly, because the new rate was higher 
than the rates Santander was offering to other customers at this time  which were nearer 
1%. 
Our investigator thought that was a fair resolution to their complaint. Mr and Mrs F didnt 
agree and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr and Mrs F experienced in 2020 and 2021  it was a 
very difficult time for many people.
Santander granted Mr and Mrs F a six month payment deferral  the maximum period set 
out in the regulators guidance on covid-19 forbearance. And when Mr and Mrs F were 
unable to resume making their full mortgage payments, Santander looked at their 
circumstances and agreed a reduced payment arrangement. This is what I would expect it to 
do, and Im satisfied this was fair.
From June 2021, Mr and Mrs F were able to resume making their full mortgage payments. 
They also agreed with Santander that they would pay £50 per month towards the arrears 
resulting from the payment arrangement.
Mr and Mrs F had taken a two year fixed interest rate in late 2019, and the rate was due to 
come to an end in November 2021.
When they first asked Santander for a new rate, it refused. It said they werent eligible for a 
rate because they were in arrears. And it wouldnt consider capitalising the arrears until 
theyd made their full mortgage payments for six months.
Its not unusual for lenders to have eligibility criteria for new interest rates  and its common 
for it to be a requirement that the mortgage not be in arrears. In general terms, theres good 
reason for that. A new fixed rate generally comes with an early repayment charge (ERC), 
payable if the mortgage ends early. And where a borrower is in arrears, and not keeping up 
with their mortgage, theres a greater risk that the mortgage will come to an end  perhaps 
through sale of the property, or even repossession  because the mortgage is no longer 
sustainable. And in those circumstances, increasing the repayment amount because of an 
ERC would leave the borrower in a worse position.
However, while that may be the general position, it may result in unfairness in individual 
cases. And in my view, this was one such case.
By the time Mr and Mrs F applied for a new rate, ahead of the ending of the old one in 
November 2021, they were making their full monthly payments again. Mr F had a new job, 
and the worst of their financial difficulties were behind them. They were reducing the arrears 
by as much as they could afford.
However, as Mr Fs new job didnt pay as much as the old one, keeping up with the 
mortgage and paying £50 to the arrears pushed them to the limits of what they could afford. 
And reverting to Santanders follow on rate would increase their monthly payment from 
around £900 to £1,200  making it unaffordable.
As I say, there are valid reasons for  as a general rule  not considering a borrower in 
arrears to be eligible for a new interest rate. But Santander also has obligations to consider 
appropriate forbearance  not just to assist a borrower who cant afford their mortgage, but 
also to assist a borrower avoid getting into that situation.
In this particular case, Mr and Mrs F could afford their mortgage on their existing fixed rate. 
They could have afforded it on a new fixed rate. But they couldnt afford it on Santanders 
follow on rate. In other words, offering them a new rate would have been appropriate 
forbearance to help them avoid a worsening of their arrears situation.
I dont therefore think that refusing Mr and Mrs F a new rate in September 2021 was the fair 
thing to do. That might have been Santanders policy  but it wasnt the fair thing to do in 
Mr and Mrs Fs particular situation.
However, following their complaint, Santander re-thought its position. Following the covid-19 
pandemic, it had introduced a 1.99% fixed rate to assist certain customers who werent eligible for one of its standard rates. And it decided to offer Mr and Mrs F that rate.
Im satisfied that this was the fair thing to do. I dont think it was unreasonable that 
Santander didnt offer them its very best fixed rates, offered to customers in the best position 
on their mortgages. It did offer them a new interest rate, which allowed them to maintain their 
mortgage at broadly its current level, and  crucially  made sure it would continue to be 
affordable for them. And it offered to capitalise the arrears.
If Santander had not done this, I would have required it to do so. Im satisfied that in doing so 
 and doing so before the old fixed rate expired, so Mr and Mrs F didnt in fact move on to 
the follow on rate  Santander acted reasonably to put right the unfairness that resulted from 
its initial refusal of a rate. And in those circumstances, I dont require it to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Im satisfied that Santander UK Plc made 
a fair and reasonable offer to put matters right and settle Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. As the 
new rate has now been implemented, and the arrears capitalised, Santander UK Plc need 
not take any further action in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman