DRN-2620156
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) would only provide him a 
business loan through his company, rather than him personally. He says this has caused 
him financial losses and difficulty in refinancing the loan elsewhere.
What happened
Mr M is both a sole trader and the director of a limited company, which Ill refer to as B.
In February 2016, B took out a fixed rate business loan with RBS. It borrowed £240,000 over 
a term of 15 years. The loan agreement stated that the loan was to be used for the 
refinancing of some existing debt and to assist with the conversion of a barn into three 
residential properties. The loan was secured by an existing personal guarantee from Mr M, 
as well as a debenture and legal charge over separate premises given by B.
Mr M says that he wanted to take this loan out in his own name, but RBS cajoled him into 
taking it out through his company for the banks benefit. He says this has been to his 
detriment, highlighting that this arrangement required him to sell a property he already 
owned personally to his company and that its ended up costing much more in interest 
payments. And he says that when trying to refinance the loan with another lender, he was 
told it wasnt possible because the loan was in the name of a company rather than his own.
RBS says that it cant specify the exact reasons for its lending decision at the time, given 
both the time that has passed and the changes in its criteria and risk appetite since. But it 
says that it was highly unlikely Mr M wouldve been able to obtain the loan as a sole trader, 
particularly as a condition of the lending was the settlement of some outstanding debts. And 
ultimately, the bank says the loan was provided as per Bs request and as set out in the loan 
agreement that was signed at the time  so if thered been any uncertainty, this shouldve 
been queried before agreeing to the loan.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
There was no record of Mr M having requested that the loan be provided to him 
personally. 
Rather, correspondence between him and the bank prior to the loan being agreed 
showed both a discussion of the loan being taken out by B and Mr Ms consideration 
of selling his property to B as part of a redevelopment plan. And there was nothing to 
suggest that RBS had required the latter, or forced Mr M into the loan.
The loan agreement that Mr M subsequently signed reflected the discussions hed 
had with the bank.
While B had then given or lent some of the loan funds to Mr M in his capacity as a 
sole trader to enable the barn development, that had a matter for B to decide and 
RBS had nothing to do with it.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. He maintained that hed wanted the loan for his 
sole trader business all along and had discussed this with RBS  but ultimately hed had no 
choice but to agree to the banks offer to borrow through B. He queried why RBS had the 
appetite to lend to B but not him, given that similar security was available either way  and 
also referred to a letter from the bank in 2015 that had suggested it was willing to provide his 
sole trader business with financial support.
Our investigator considered Mr Ms further submissions but they didnt lead her to a different 
outcome. So Mr M asked that an ombudsman review the complaint and it was passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly its important to be clear that Mr M has insisted this complaint is brought in his 
personal capacity, rather than as director of B. So all I can consider is how RBS treated him 
and any losses he may have suffered personally  and not anything related to or arising from 
the agreement that was ultimately entered into by B. If Mr M feels that B has lost out due to 
any errors made by RBS  including by way of the interest rate it was charged to borrow the 
funds in question  then that would need to be dealt with by way of a separate complaint.
The crux of Mr Ms complaint is that RBS declined his request to lend to him. 
Theres limited documentary evidence of any request from Mr M to RBS for the lending in 
question. But I accept what hes said about this, and have no reason to doubt that he 
discussed it with his relationship manager at the time.
Evidently, RBS was unwilling to provide the lending Mr M sought to him personally. Its hard 
to say with any certainty why this was, as there is no record of the banks rationale for this 
position. Thats not unreasonable, given the time thats passed  and as a formal application 
might never actually been submitted and considered. Rather, it seems likely to me that the 
bank simply communicated to Mr M that the only terms on which it would be willing to lend 
would be through B.
Ive considered whether RBSs position was fair, taking into account Mr Ms comments and 
having reviewed the limited documentary evidence thats available. Having done so, I think it 
was. So Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
Broadly speaking, the decision as to whether to lend or do business with a particular 
customer would be a matter of the banks discretion. But of course wed expect it to exercise 
that discretion fairly.
Mr M doesnt think RBSs position was fair, bearing in mind that it couldve provided the loan 
in question to him with the same level of security that it was able to obtain through B. He 
points out that he provided a personal guarantee for the loan that went ahead anyway, and 
had very other properties over which the bank held charges. But I think its reasonable to 
suggest there is an additional layer of security in lending to B with the backing of a personal 
guarantee and other security from Mr M, as compared to lending directly to Mr M. So I can 
understand the logic in the banks position, which was one it was entitled to take.
Ive also considered what Mr M has said about the responsibility that banks like RBS have in 
supporting small businesses by providing finance. But that doesnt extend to accepting every proposal thats put to it, and for the reasons set out above I dont think RBSs decision in this 
individual case was unfair or unreasonable. Mr Ms referred us to a particular letter from RBS 
that he received in March 2015, in which the bank set out its willingness to support 
businesses. But this letter was fairly generic in nature, and did no more than set out its 
willingness to consider an application for any financial needs that Mr M might have  not a 
guarantee. Again, I dont think it bound RBS to accept any subsequent application from 
Mr M.
Records from the time and the loan agreement itself also show that the loan was provided to 
B on the condition that some of the funds were used to refinance some of its existing debt 
with RBS. Mr M sees that as more reason for the bank to favour lending to him personally, 
pointing out that these werent his debts but those of B. But I think the opposite is true  
while the bank was willing to lend, it wanted to restructure the existing commitments before 
doing so. Again, that was a matter of it to decide  but it serves to highlight why it wanted to 
lend to B rather than Mr M in his personal capacity.
Mr M is also unhappy that as RBS would only lend to B, this required him to transfer one of 
the properties held as security from his own name into that of his company. While I can see 
that a charge over the property in question was taken as security, Ive not seen anything to 
show that RBS required the transfer of ownership as Mr M has described. But even if did, I 
think it was then a matter of Mr M deciding whether he was happy to proceed on that basis. 
And I cant see that he was forced or coaxed into doing this as hes suggested; rather the 
email exchanges hes provided show that he was considering the transfer anyway as part of 
a redevelopment project. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think RBS treated Mr M unfairly in declining to offer the 
lending in question to him personally  preferring instead to provide it to B. It was then up to 
Mr M to decide whether he wished to accept the banks position or explore alternative 
options elsewhere. It follows that I dont think RBS is responsible for any of the losses that 
Mr M is claiming as a result of the loan proceeding in the way it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman