DRN-4081616
The complaint
Miss G complains that Black Horse Limited, who Ill call Black Horse, failed to credit a 
payment to her account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss G, but I think the offer Black Horse have made to settle this 
complaint since it was referred to this Service, is reasonable.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss G acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it, but not the delays Miss G experienced 
receiving the results of her subject access request.
Miss G complained to Black Horse in November 2022. She said she had made a payment 
towards her account, and she provided a bank statement showing the payment and gave 
Black Horse the payment authorisation code, later that month.
It wasnt until March 2023 that Black Horse were able to locate the funds and apply them to 
Miss Gs balance.
I think its clear Miss G will have experienced distress and inconvenience whilst waiting for 
Black Horse to find the funds and allocate them to her account. It seems clear that Black 
Horse had all the information they needed to do so in November 2022. Miss G has explained 
that as she couldnt be sure any future payments would be received by Black Horse she 
stopped making payments towards her account and shes concerned about the impact that 
will have on her credit file.
   
Putting things right
Black Horse have now agreed to pay Miss G £450 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced, and I think thats sufficient.
I can understand that Miss G will have been anxious about the missed payment, and Ive 
read that shes experienced mental health problems that she says Black Horse were aware 
of. Miss G has also explained that she keeps a very close eye on her finances, and it would 
clearly have been frustrating for her to have known shed made a payment but for Black 
Horse not to have acknowledged it. I do think, however, that when taking all of the 
circumstances into account, £450 is sufficient compensation.
Ive considered whether to tell Black Horse to remove any missed payments they may have 
reported to Miss Gs credit file in relation to the subsequent payments that have become due 
on the account, but I dont think that would be reasonable. Thats because Black Horse have 
an obligation to report Miss Gs performance on her account accurately to the credit 
reference agencies and it was Miss Gs decision not to make any further payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Black Horse to pay Miss G 
£450 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused. They should also 
ensure that no missed payment has been reported to the credit reference agencies with 
regard to the lost transaction, but not with regard to any subsequent missed payments.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman