DRN-1313886
 
The complaint
Miss C complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims management 
company. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Miss C took out in October 
1994. It was sold in store and covered Miss C for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Miss C disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion saying, in summary, that:
She was a single mother and probably had two jobs at the time.
She would not have knowingly taken the PPI.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss C's case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss C's complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Miss C aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before adding 
PPI. Miss C says she wouldn't have taken it if she didn't have to. As this happened many 
years ago, I cant be sure exactly what happened, so I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
AXA has provided a copy of Miss C's card application form but unfortunately parts of it are 
illegible. AXA can't provide a clearer copy or a sample of the application form that Miss C 
completed. But, from what I can see, it looks like there was a separate section about 
payment protection. And I can see there were equally clear options to accept or decline the 
PPI. The "yes" box has been ticked to indicate that Miss C wanted it. I cant say what was 
discussed, if anything, at the time of the application, but I think the paperwork most likely 
made it clear that PPI was optional and I think it wouldve been reasonable to expect Miss C 
to check over the document she was signing. The section about PPI was relatively brief, so I 
think Miss C wouldve still been able to do this even though the card and PPI were taken out 
in a store. So, overall, I think AXA made Miss C aware that the PPI was optional and she 
chose to take it.AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss C so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make sure Miss C got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. I've considered, in particular, that Miss C says she probably had two jobs at the time 
of the application. She was working more than 16 hours in total, so she was eligible for the 
policy. But she would only have been able to claim for unemployment if she'd lost both of her 
jobs. But - whilst I can't see exactly what was said on the application form, I think it's very 
likely that the payment protection section would have included the key information about the 
cover and the fact that it would cover Miss C for accident, sickness and unemployment. I 
think Miss C would have reasonably understood "unemployment" to mean not working. So I 
don't think AXA needed to tell her that she'd need to lose both jobs to make a successful 
claim for unemployment.
Based on what Ive seen of Miss C's circumstances at the time, I think she may have thought 
the policy would be useful. She's told us she wouldn't have received any pay from her 
employers if she couldn't work due to sickness or an accident. And she was the sole earner 
in the household. The PPI would have covered her until she was able to return to work. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable and she couldve cancelled it at any time. 
Overall, I dont think Miss C has lost out because of anything that AXA might have done 
wrong. 
My final decision
 For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman