DRN-3798221
The complaint
Mr Fs representative has complained, on his behalf, that an appointed representative of 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd  Beaulieu Wealth Management (BWM) - unsuitably advised 
him to transfer his personal pension policies (PPPs) to a flexi access drawdown (FAD) plan 
for the sake of accessing tax free cash. 
Its further said that the subsequent reinvestment of the pension funds was also unsuitable 
and that the charges Mr F had paid had been excessive.
What happened
Mr F met with an adviser of BWM in May 2015 to discuss his pensions, at which point Mr Fs 
circumstances were recorded as follows:
He was 55, in good health, and married with no dependants.
He was employed, earning £52,000 pa, with an additional annual bonus of around 
£4,000 pa.
Mr and Mrs F had joint savings of £4,000 and a mortgage-free property valued at 
around £300,000.
Mr F planned to retire at 65, and had three PPPs with Royal London which had a 
total value of just over £62,000.
Mr F was recorded as wanting to release tax free cash from his PPPs, which hed use for 
family holidays and home refurbishments. But he didnt intend drawing an income until he 
was 65.
BWM provided its recommendation to Mr F in September 2015, which was that he transfer 
his PPPs to the FAD and that, once tax free cash of just over £15,500 had been withdrawn, 
the bulk of the remainder would be invested in the Invesco Perpetual Distribution Fund, with 
1% retained in cash.
In support of the recommendation, BWM said that this was the only way of achieving Mr Fs 
objectives, as his existing pension provider couldnt place him in flexi access drawdown and 
Mr F didnt want to use other assets or create new debt.
In terms of Mr Fs attitude to investment risk, BWM assessed him as being balanced, which 
meant that he preferred to not take too much risk and had a preference for lower risk assets 
 but nevertheless appreciated that riskier assets were likely to produce enhanced long term 
results.
BWM also recorded that Mr Fs existing PPPs had guaranteed annuity rates (GARs) 
attached to them, with the two smaller plans having the possibility of being accessed with the 
GARs at age 55, and the larger being accessible with the GAR from age 60. All of the GARs 
increased until age 65.
The actual GARs at age 65 were 8% for the smaller plans, valued at around £5,700 and 
£3,500 each, and 5% for around £42,000 of the larger plan, with 3.5% applying to the 
remaining £10,500.
The suitability report said that BWM had used a comparison annuity tool which was showing 
at the time that Mr F could expect an annuity rate on the open market of 5.076%. It also said 
that the guaranteed cash values attached to the policies were lower than the policies current 
values.
Mr F accepted the advice and the transfer proceeded.
Mr Fs representative then submitted the complaint to BWM in September 2020, but BWM 
declined to uphold it, saying in summary that Mr Fs pension funds retained Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) protection, and that it considered that the advice 
provided was suitable. 
It noted that a 1% ongoing adviser fee had been charged to Mr Fs plan, which had been 
confirmed in the suitability report. The fee was payable monthly and covered the regular 
review service conducted by its adviser. This service, BWM said, had been provided 
consistently to Mr F.
It further said that, with regard to the guarantees Mr F relinquished through the transfers, this 
had been addressed in detail within the suitability report. And that, in terms of Mr Fs attitude 
to risk, this had been assessed through a questionnaire, which had determined that Mr F 
had a balanced risk attitude. Mr F had agreed to this, and it was also outlined in the 
suitability report, BWM added.
As to the choice of investment fund, BWM said that Mr F was presented with several 
different investment choices and that, following the initial investment into the Invesco 
Perpetual Distribution Fund, the next annual review recommended that he switch to the 
Cirilium Balanced Passive Fund (again with 1% invested in cash).
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr Fs representative referred the matter to this service, 
where it was considered by one of our investigators. She thought the complaint should be 
upheld, saying the following in summary:
With regard to the comparative costs of the policies, the total cost of the PPPs was 
no more than 1% pa, which was mirrored by the cost of the FAD plan, but there was 
an additional ongoing advice cost of 1% and the initial cost of the transfer was 
2.75%. So in the first year, the FAD plan would cost Mr F 3.75% more than his 
existing PPPs.
The GARs attached to Mr Fs PPPs would likely be higher than those normally 
available at retirement, and although an annuity illustration for these was provided to 
age 60, Mr Fs predicted retirement age was 65. The illustration at that later age 
would have been higher.
Although Mr F had been assessed as having a balanced attitude to risk, the answers 
hed provided in the questionnaire indicated that he was at the more cautious end of 
balanced, especially given his lack of investment knowledge. Mr F had no real 
capacity for loss as the PPPs were his only means of private pension provision. This 
rendered the GARs attached to them even more valuable.
The recorded rationale for the transfer  to pay for a family holiday and home 
refurbishments  wasnt sufficient to make it a suitable recommendation. It was up to BWM to provide suitable advice rather than simply facilitate Mr Fs wishes.
There was also no detail in the suitability report about what other options were 
discussed towards meeting Mr Fs objectives. The investigator found this surprising, 
given the valuable guarantees which Mr F would be relinquishing by transferring.
Mr Fs net monthly income would have been in the region of £3,000, with joint 
expenditure of around £1,260 pm. Mrs Fs financial position hadnt been recorded, 
but even taking into account the known income and outgoings, Mr F had at least 
£1,800 disposable income per month. Mr F had a car loan, but he only had a small 
amount to repay on that.
The cost of the holiday and refurbishments hadnt been recorded, so it was unclear 
as to whether Mr F needed the entirety of his tax free cash to pay for them, but the 
investigator thought that it was more likely than not that Mr F would have had other 
means of meeting the cost, such as finance or savings.
Mr F had also said that he would like an income of around £2,000 pm in retirement, 
which could be supplemented by two to three days work. But even with the GARs, 
Mr F was unlikely to achieve the required income, and this would be further 
exacerbated by their loss and the withdrawal of the tax free cash. Suitable advice 
would have been to enhance the pension fund through further contributions, rather 
than withdrawing from it.
There were other objectives such as flexibility of income options and tax efficiency, 
but these werent of immediate importance and could be addressed nearer to Mr Fs 
retirement in ten years time.
As such, the investigator thought that a comparison should be undertaken between the 
benefits which would have been available from the PPPs compared to those which would be 
available from the FAD plan. If there was a loss, the investigator said that this should in the 
first instance be paid to Mr Fs FAD plan, but if this wasnt possible, it should be paid to him 
directly, with a notional deduction for income tax.
Mr Fs representative said that Mr F agreed with the proposed outcome. However, the 
business disagreed, saying the following in summary:
There were no other means by which Mr F could have met his objectives. The only 
other funds Mr F had were those in his deposit account, with a value of £4,000. If Mr 
F had used this, he would have eliminated his savings and likely not have had 
enough to cover the cost of his planned expenditure. Mr F had confirmed that he 
didnt wish to take on new debts to fund his objectives.
With regard to the costs of the transfer and new plan, this needed to be considered in 
the right context. Whilst it was true that the FAD plan would be 1% pa more 
expensive, this was due to the ongoing advice service, which Mr F wasnt receiving 
with his previous plans.
None of Mr Fs PPPs offered flexi access drawdown, and so wouldnt have been able 
to facilitate his objectives of taking tax fee cash but no income, tax efficient 
withdrawals, ad hoc lump sums and maximisation of the fund for his beneficiaries.
In terms of the GARs, the risks associated with losing them were explained in the 
suitability report in detail. Given that Mr F intended to retire in ten years time, along 
with the newly introduced pension freedom rules, Mr F was happy to relinquish those benefits.
BWM requested that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman, and so it was passed to 
me for review. 
I noted what Quilter had said about the comparison research which it had conducted on the 
annuity rate which Mr F might obtain on the open market  quoted as being 5.076% - and 
the investigator enquired, on my behalf, as to the basis on which it had determined this rate, 
i.e. at what age, whether this was on a joint or single life basis, whether this included a 
guarantee period, and whether it would increase in payment.
In response, Quilter provided the information, which showed that the rate had been 
calculated on a single life basis, with no escalation and no guarantee period. It said that this 
was for a male aged over 55, and so I assumed that this was for age 55.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter on 5 October 2022, in which I set out my 
reasons for why I thought the complaint should be upheld. Those findings are as below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, whilst I appreciate the comments made by Quilter (BWM), Im inclined 
to agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons  but with an important 
amendment to the manner of calculating redress as set out below.
In an environment of relatively low interest rates and increased longevity, as would also have 
been the case in 2015, and consequently relatively low annuity rates, GARs can have 
considerable value when applied to a pension fund.
Its fair to say that Mr F couldnt capitalise on much of the benefit of the GARs for several 
years, although they would attain increased value the later that Mr F retired. And as 
mentioned above, Quilter had researched the type of annuity which Mr F could achieve on 
the open market, and on the face of it, 5.076% might seem quite reasonable compared to 
the rates which were available to Mr F from his existing policies.
But Mr F didnt envisage retiring before age 65  some ten years hence, at which point 
£42,275 of his overall pension fund would have been subject to a GAR of 5%, £9,290 would 
have been subject to a GAR of 8% and the remaining £10,499 would be subject to a GAR of 
3.5%.
The open market rate of 5.076% may well have increased in the intervening years, albeit not 
guaranteed to do so, and I think its likely that the GAR of 3.5% could have been bettered. 
But the suitability report made no mention of the basis on which the GARs would be payable, 
and even if it was the same as that for the rate of 5.076%, it would be hard to beat the 8% 
GAR applicable on £9,290 of Mr Fs pension funds, even when Mr F was ten years older. 
Therefore, unless theres a particularly compelling and robust reason for accessing pension 
benefits by transferring and so losing valuable GARs, I think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that this wouldnt be a suitable course of action. 
But even if a different interpretation of the above was possible, Ive also then considered the 
actual rationale for Mr F to access his pension benefits at the time. This seems to be to pay 
for a holiday and home refurbishments, and I accept BWMs point that, other than savings, 
Mr F had no capital sums upon which to draw to achieve these objectives.
But I do think the investigator has made a good point in that the actual cost of the objectives wasnt recorded (the required tax free cash was just the maximum available), nor were 
means such as not insignificant disposable income, along with whatever income Mrs F may 
have been bringing into the household, explored as potential means of paying for home 
refurbishments  perhaps gradually over time - in the suitability report.
Furthermore, however, neither of these would in my view be reasonably considered so 
essential that they would justify accessing Mr Fs pension benefits at that time, even setting 
aside the surrender of valuable GARs, especially when, as the investigator noted, Mr Fs 
likely pension income would already be some way below that which he would wish to receive 
 and would likely need to be supplemented by part time work.
I acknowledge that an objective doesnt necessarily need to be essential to justify the early 
withdrawal of pension benefits, but Mr F didnt, for example, have significant debt at a high 
rate of interest, which would be cost effective to repay. I think a holiday and the 
refurbishments might reasonably fall within the nice to have category, but not in my view of 
sufficient importance that Mr Fs longer term financial security in retirement should have 
been jeopardised, especially when there may have been other means beyond reliance on 
savings  albeit over time - with which to pay for them.
And as also observed by the investigator, it was BWMs responsibility to point this out to Mr 
F. It may well have covered the loss of the GARs in the suitability report, but it was still up to 
BWM to make a suitable recommendation, rather than simply facilitating wish fulfilment. And 
as BWM/Quilter will be aware, provision of product information or risk warnings wouldnt 
render otherwise unsuitable advice suitable. 
Mr F may also have also been attracted to the additional features offered by flexi access 
drawdown in the wake of the pension freedoms. But again, Mr F was some ten years away 
from his intended retirement age, and so any such flexibilities or tax efficient withdrawal 
requirements could have been addressed at that time.
Summary
It may well have been the case at age 65 that conventional annuity rates would be in excess 
of those which would be offered by the PPPs  although I think this is doubtful, especially 
with regard to the 8% pa offered by the smaller two PPPs  but this, along with any 
subsequent changes in his and his wifes circumstances, could in any case have been 
reassessed at that time.
Overall, Im not currently satisfied on a fair and reasonable assessment of the circumstances 
here, that BWM gave Mr F suitable advice to transfer his PPPs to the FAD plan, lose the 
GARs, and access his pension funds early, especially when its entirely possible that Mr Fs 
objectives could have been met, albeit over a slightly longer period of time, from disposable 
income and the associated savings. 
Ive noted the comments about the issue of costs and subsequent reinvestment of the 
pension funds, but I dont think I need to cover this in detail as  for the reasons given - I 
dont think Mr F should in any case have transferred his PPPs.
Putting things right
My view is aligned with that of the investigator, but with a key addition at point (7). In the 
event that I uphold this complaint, Quilter Financial Services Ltd should undertake the 
following:1. Ask the original provider (Royal London) to calculate the notional value of Mr Fs 
PPPs at the date of this decision, as if the policies hadnt been transferred.
2. Obtain details of the GARs applying at Mr Fs age at the date of this decision on a 
monthly in advance basis with 50% spouses pension and a five-year minimum 
period of payment.
3. Determine the annuity rates as at the date of this decision to determine a rate 
payable on the open market for the same format and age.
4. Assuming (2) is greater than (3), increase the value in (1) by the ratio of 75% 
x ((2) divided by (3)). Otherwise leave the value in (1) unchanged.
5. Obtain the fund value at the date of calculation from the provider to 
which Mr F transferred as a result of the original advice.
6. The loss to Mr Fs pension funds at the date of calculation is calculated as the 
result of (4)  (5). If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is 
payable.
7. From any loss may be deducted the amount which Mr F has withdrawn from the 
FAD plan.
The loss should if possible be paid into Mr Fs pension plan. The payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr F as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
As Mr F would have taken tax-free cash, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would 
have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed by the 
investigator to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Payment should be made within 28 days of Quilter Financial Services Ltd being notified of 
Mr Fs acceptance of this decision. If its made later, 8% pa simple interest should be 
added to the loss amount from the date of this decision to the date of settlement.
Both parties have confirmed that they have no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My conclusions remain the same as those set out above, and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Quilter Financial Services Ltd should undertake the following:
1. Ask the original provider (Royal London) to calculate the notional value of Mr Fs 
PPPs at the date of this decision, as if the policies hadnt been transferred.
2. Obtain details of the GARs applying at Mr Fs age at the date of this decision on a 
monthly, in advance, basis with a 50% spouses pension and a five-year minimum 
period of payment.
3. Determine the annuity rates as at the date of this decision to determine a rate 
payable on the open market for the same format and age.4. Assuming (2) is greater than (3), increase the value in (1) by the ratio of 75% 
x ((2) divided by (3)). Otherwise leave the value in (1) unchanged.
5. Obtain the fund value at the date of calculation from the provider to 
which Mr F transferred as a result of the original advice.
6. The loss to Mr Fs pension funds at the date of calculation is calculated as the 
result of (4)  (5). If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is 
payable.
7. From any loss may be deducted the amount which Mr F has withdrawn from the 
FAD plan.
The loss should if possible be paid into Mr Fs pension plan. The payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr F as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
As Mr F would have taken tax-free cash, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would 
have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed by the 
investigator to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Payment should be made within 28 days of Quilter Financial Services Ltd being notified of 
Mr Fs acceptance of this decision. If its made later, 8% pa simple interest should be added 
to the loss amount from the date of this decision to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Quilter Financial Services Ltd to 
undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman