DRN-3888911
The complaint
Mr D complains about the service provided and the amount Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited (Markerstudy) said his vehicle was worth when he made a claim under 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D had a motor insurance policy with Markerstudy covering his van.
In April 2022 Mr D was involved in a collision when a third-party vehicle hit his van. He made 
a claim to Markerstudy. 
Markerstudy assessed the van as being beyond economical repair and it declared it as a 
category B write-off. Markerstudy found that the van had been written-off twice before, both 
times before Mr D bought it. He said he wasnt aware that the van had been previously 
written off.
Because the van had previously been written-off, Markerstudy offered Mr D a lower market 
value than he was expecting. 
Mr D complained about the value hed been offered. He also complained about the service 
hed had from Markerstudy. In his complaint he mentions not receiving the VAT element of 
his claim settlement amount, and questions the category of write-off that Markerstudy gave 
the van.
Markerstudy looked into his complaint. It apologised for the poor service hed had and paid 
him £450 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. It re-assessed the value of the 
vehicle and settled Mr Ds claim at £2,850.
Mr D remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He is unhappy about the 
valuation Markerstudy gave him and asks for it to be increased. He says the van was worth 
about £3,500 - £5,500 plus VAT.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought that 
Markerstudy had paid Mr D a fair amount and its engineer had provided an assessment of 
the category of write-off.
Mr D didnt agree with the view. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why as I appreciate this will be a 
disappointment for Mr D.
Ive looked into the details of the incident and Markerstudys assessment of how much the 
van would have cost to repair. I can see that the expected cost of repair was about three 
times the value of the van. Markerstudys engineer wrote-off the van as a Category B, which 
means that it cant be put back on the road, but parts from it can be used. 
Having read Markerstudys evidence, I can see that the reason this category was used was 
due to the previous write-offs the van had. A Markerstudy engineer has made that 
assessment after inspecting the van and I think its reasonable for me to accept that its 
valid. 
In later correspondence with this service, Mr D has also said he believes hes also entitled to 
the value of the salvage of the van. He says this because he made a claim several years 
before during which he says he received the salvage money. I cant see that he has 
complained about this to Markerstudy so Im not able to make a decision on this here. But I 
thought it would be useful if I considered what Mr D has said. I have found a section of the 
policy wording saying:
If the insured vehicle is deemed to be beyond economical repair the damaged 
vehicle becomes our property once a claim is met under the policy.
This is in line with many other policies in the market and it seems to me that it allows 
Markerstudy to take the vehicle salvage and dispose of it how it wishes. Itll do this to help it 
recover its costs from the claim.
The policy wording doesnt say that the value of the salvage is passed back to its insured 
customer, and I cant see that the policy would do this. As I say above, Im not able to make 
a decision on this here because I cant see that Markerstudy has considered this, but I have 
looked at the policy and I think Markerstudys actions here have been fair and in line with my 
expectations. If Mr D is unhappy with this aspect of his claim, he can complain to 
Markerstudy and this service in due course if he remains unhappy.
Market value
Ive looked at Markerstudys policy wording which says:
The most we will pay will be either:
The market value of the insured vehicle immediately before the loss, or 
The cost of repairing the insured vehicle, whichever is the lower amount.
Markerstudy gives the definition of market value as:
Market Value
The cost of replacing your insured vehicle with one of the same or similar make, 
model, year, mileage and condition which applied immediately before any loss or 
damage. The market value will be assessed by an automotive engineer in 
conjunction with the published trade guides at the time of loss.
Ive said above that Markerstudy gave Mr D a vehicle valuation of £2,850 and I can see from 
its evidence that it arrived at this figure by taking the average of three values from trade 
guides it uses. 
We think the trade guides are generally more persuasive in indicating the likely selling price of a vehicle rather than adverts for similar ones, as the adverts give an advertised price, 
rather than a selling price. Its important that I say we look to whether the insurers offer is 
reasonable.
These guides use data from various sources to give what they consider to be the likely 
selling price for cars of a similar specification, age, mileage and condition at the time of loss.
In Markerstudys evidence, I can see that it obtained the following values from the guides:
Trade guide A: £2,968
Trade guide B: £2,820
Trade guide C: £3,118
Markerstudy took the average of these three guide values, and added 20% VAT to it, which 
means it says the van had a market value of £3,562.40, if the van hadnt previously been 
written-off.
Then it deducted 20% of the value due to the van being previously declared a write-off. 
Making the final value (rounded up to) £2,850.
I can see from the file that Mr D has carried out his own research on this and has sent 
evidence to show that one trade guide shows the retail asking price to be £3,019, which 
takes into account that the van had previously been written-off.
Ive also looked at a different trade guide and I can see a value of £2,883. The figures used 
by this service, Mr D and Markerstudy all seem to indicate that the vans final market value, 
after taking VAT and the write-offs into account, is in the range of £2,707.20 to £3,019.00. 
The amount offered by Markerstudy falls into this range, so in line with the approach taken 
by this service, I think Markerstudy have acted reasonably and Im not going to ask it to pay 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman