DRN-1665138
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs M. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2003 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs M was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. AXA didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. This is because I think its more likely than not that 
Mrs M was working fewer than 16 hours a week. This would mean she would have had very 
limited potential use from the policy. 
AXA has said Mrs M has been inconsistent in saying she worked fewer than 16 hours a 
week. This is because, when she (or her representative) filled in a PPI questionnaire and 
sent it to AXA, there was a tick against the box that says employed to described her 
employment status, and no tick against the option lower down in the list, to say working 
fewer than 16 hours a week. But when she later complained to the ombudsman service she 
did tick the fewer than 16 hours box. 
I dont think that shows an inconsistency in her recollection of her employment status. It was 
still true to say she was employed when she was working fewer 16 hours a week  
because she was employed. And when she complained to us, she went into further detail, 
specifically saying she had been working part-time. 
So, I am satisfied the PPI policy was probably mis-sold. 
Putting things right
 AXA France IARD should put Mrs M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs M would have owed when she closed her credit 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs M owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs M would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until the point when Mrs M 
wouldve owed something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs M would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs M 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs M 
wouldve owed AXA something on her credit. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.AXA should tell Mrs M what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs M that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. I require AXA France IARD 
to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman