DRN-3061564
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that the proceeds they received from                                 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) following an encashment of a bond, were 
significantly less than the value they had previously been given. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B held a bond with Aviva and received a valuation for it in March 2020, of 
approximately £125,000.
They had already received assignment forms for it, as they intended to assign it to Mrs B 
prior to encashment. This was completed during May 2020 and the request to surrender was 
made on 3 June 2020. 
Mr and Mrs B contacted their advisor on 18 June 2020, to say that the amount they had 
received was approximately £120,000. Significantly less than the valuation they had been 
given in March 2020.
They complained to Aviva, unhappy with the lower amount received and that they hadnt 
been informed of any changes to the valuation. Aviva responded to explain that there had 
been a change to the terminal bonus rates applied but that the March valuation had 
explained that the figure wasnt guaranteed.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy and brought their complaint to our Service for an 
independent review. They said that they had asked to be informed of any changed to the 
bonus rates applied and they believed that delays with the reassignment had meant they 
ended up with less than they should have.  
Our Investigator looked into it and she didnt think that Aviva had done anything wrong. She 
said that the valuation wasnt guaranteed, and the figure paid out was correct following a 
change in the bonus rate applied. She noted that this had been made clear on Avivas 
website and she didnt think they had needed to do anymore than that. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They said they had expressly asked to be notified of any changes 
to the value. They said they had also asked for a valuation prior to surrendering the bond.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the Investigator. Ill explain why.
When Mr and Mrs B were given a bond summary in March 2020, it gave a bond value. This 
summary explained that the value can change daily and that deductions might apply. It also 
said that the majority of the value was made up of a final bonus and that the figure given was 
for that day in March 2020. It also said that a market value reduction might apply. I am 
satisfied that they were made aware that the value was not guaranteed. 
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs B, a reduction in the bonus rates was applied in April 2020. 
This was due to the market volatility at the time with an ongoing pandemic. Whilst Aviva 
didnt write to every customer about this, they have shown us that this was made clear on 
their website. We wouldnt necessarily expect them to make every customer aware of every 
rate change. Whilst a letter or email to Mr and Mrs B or their advisor would have been 
preferrable, I understand why it wasnt done. And I think they took fair and reasonable steps 
to make customers aware of the rate change. 
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with this as they say they specifically asked to be made aware of 
any rate change. However, the correspondence which I have seen, states they wanted to 
know of any market value adjustment (a reduction that might apply to units if you leave a 
fund early). This didnt apply here. This was a change in the terminal or final bonus rate. I 
dont think Aviva did anything wrong here. 
Mr and Mrs B have also complained that they asked for an updated policy valuation prior to 
encashment and after the March 2020 summary. However, I havent seen any further 
evidence of this. I have also listened to the calls made to Aviva regarding this policy and 
there wasnt a request for an updated valuation. 
I appreciate that the reassignment of the policy to Mrs B took longer than they would have 
liked. The forms were given to them in March but only appear to have been returned and 
completed on 14 May. This was after the reduction in terminal bonus rates. So, I dont 
believe that but for any delay to the reassignment, the previous rates would have applied to 
the policy. 
Overall, I am satisfied that Aviva made Mr and Mrs B sufficiently aware the previous 
valuation could change and them or their advisor should have been aware of the rate 
change. I cant see that Aviva have made an error and the rate change would still have 
applied even if there wasnt any delay to the reassignment. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman