DRN-2194264
The complaint
Miss H and Mr N have complained about the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has 
dealt with their claim. 
  
What happened
Miss H and Mr N bought a single trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV. Whilst on 
holiday, Mr N had an accident. He was hit by a car and taken to hospital by ambulance  he 
suffered a brain injury and a broken pelvis. 
Miss H contacted URV for medical assistance. But Miss H and Mr N were unhappy with the 
way URV dealt with their claim and complained about the following, in summary:
Delays in confirming cover
Poor levels of service during phone calls
Unnecessary discharge from hospital 
Lack of action and failure to make medical decisions
Incorrect information about commercial flights and air ambulances
Mr N says URV caused significant stress and upset for him and his family while he was in a 
serious condition in a foreign hospital with very poor hygiene and inadequate facilities. He 
complained to URV and it offered £500 compensation for its failures. It later increased its 
offer to £2,000 during our investigation, which Mr N rejected. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think URVs compensation was 
adequate. URV had already paid £500 and she recommended a further £4,000 for the 
extreme distress and inconvenience caused by URVs actions. 
URV didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me for a decision  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld and largely for the same reasons as 
explained by our investigator. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. And it should provide reasonable guidance to help 
make a claim with appropriate information on progress.
The policy terms and conditions say:
Your policy is intended to cover immediate treatment in an emergency situation. We 
reserve the right to repatriate you immediately for treatment in your home country 
when this is deemed to be preferable regardless of your original travel plans. All 
medical decisions are at the discretion of our medical director. It is essential for you 
to contact the Emergency Assistance Facilities service prior to being admitted 
anywhere. In this instance we may arrange for a local transfer to a hospital better 
equipped for your immediate needs.
key events 
Our investigator has already provided a detailed timeline in her opinion, and so I wont 
repeat everything here again. Instead, Ill outline the key events relevant to my decision.
6 July 2019  Mr N had the accident. Miss H told URV she was concerned the hospital didnt 
have adequate facilities to treat Mr N.
8 July 2019  URVs agent said the doctor recommended Mr N should be moved to a 
suitable hospital with a neurosurgeon. URV said it would get in touch with Miss H when it 
had an update.
10 July 2019  URV called Miss H to say a doctor had reviewed the latest medical report 
and Mr N wouldnt be moved any time soon. Miss H said Mr N was stable and the treating 
doctor had said he was fit to fly. Miss H became upset as Mr N wasnt getting the best 
healthcare. The hospital didnt have a neurosurgeon and she asked how Mr N was going to 
get better without treatment. URV said the hospital would have to move Mr N under its own 
liability.
11 July 2019  Miss H called URV and explained Mr N had a bleed on his brain, but he was 
fit to fly on a medical plane. She said she was very distressed as URV hadnt confirmed 
cover yet. She was attending to Mr N as there were no nurses to change his bedding or feed 
him. And URV had asked for a police report but she couldnt leave Mr N to get this. URV 
asked Miss H what her residency status was when she bought the policy and whether the 
trip started and ended in the UK. It also said Mr N needed to be moved to a neuro-centre but 
that the hospital should cover this. Miss H said the hospital had explained the insurer 
needed to move him and so she needed URVs help. She told URV shed had to ask a 
relative to fly out and take her four-year-old son back to the UK.  
URV called Miss H again and said it needed a police report to verify cover. She said she had 
already requested this, but the police had told her this wouldnt be available until 15 July. 
She asked whether this meant Mr N couldnt be moved until then. She became upset and 
asked for a manager to call her back. URV agreed to provide cover on the condition that the 
police report didnt point to Mr Ns fault. It also said it would contact the hospital to make 
arrangements.
12 July 2019  URV called Miss H and said it had arranged to transfer Mr N to a different 
public hospital. Later that same day, the hospital said it couldnt accept Mr N there and the 
only option was to take him to a private hospital. URV said it didnt cover private treatment 
and the hospital should arrange the transfer. Miss H was disappointed and angry that the 
transfer didnt happen as promised.
13 July 2019  Miss H provided the police report to URV. 
18 July 2019  the agent told URV Mr N was stable and in a good condition, the scan 
showed an improvement and a neurosurgeon from another public hospital recommended he 
was fit to fly. Miss H called and asked for her accommodation to be extended which URV 
agreed to. She asked when URV would fly Mr N home and was told that the medical team 
thought it was too early.19 July 2019  the agent said Mr N was fit to fly but on a stretcher. Miss H called URV and 
asked how it could say Mr N wasnt fit to fly when it hadnt seen the scans. She said she 
would speak to the media. 
20 July 2019  one of URVs doctors called Miss H and explained the medical team didnt 
recommend flying for about three weeks post initial injury. Miss H said URV was delaying the 
repatriation to avoid spending money. The doctor made comments about there not being 
enough Air Ambulances (AAs) in the world and that there may not be one available for Mr N, 
although this hadnt yet been checked. Miss H became upset and said she hadnt seen her 
son for a week and had been messed about by URV. 
Another doctor spoke to Miss H later in the day and outlined the risks and dangers of AAs, 
including the risk of death. But he said an AA was the only option for Mr N and that URV 
would plan the repatriation the following week. 
27 July 2019  Mr N was repatriated to the UK.
Having considered all of the above, I agree that Miss H and Mr N suffered significant stress 
and inconvenience as a result of URVs actions for the following reasons:
URV didnt initially explain why it thought Mr N wasnt fit to fly when the treating 
doctors had said that he was. 
URV kept telling Miss H that the hospital was responsible for moving Mr N. And didnt 
provide her with any guidance or reassurance that it would ensure Mr N was taken 
care of in an appropriate medical facility. 
URV delayed in asking for information to verify cover such as residency and trip 
questions. 
Miss H was attending to Mr N as no nurses were available. URV should have 
recognised this and arranged for a nurse to attend and assist. In addition, Miss H had 
to arrange for her son to be taken back to the UK. Again, URV failed to offer 
assistance with this. 
URV said it had arranged for Mr N to be moved to a hospital with the facilities 
required. But this transfer didnt take place as the hospital refused to accept Mr N. At 
this point, URV didnt offer any helpful assistance and again referred to the hospitals 
responsibility to move Mr N. 
When the hospital refused to accept Mr N, URV said private hospitals werent 
covered unless there were no adequate public facilities. In this case, Mr N was 
refused by the public facility and so I think URV could have done more to explore the 
possibility of transferring Mr N to a private hospital or repatriating him as soon as 
possible. He was re-admitted to the original hospital but wasnt receiving treatment. 
And so I dont think URV did enough to support and reassure Miss H or arrange for 
Mr N to receive treatment.
URV didnt tell Miss H that it wouldnt repatriate Mr N until she called on 18 July 
2019.
Miss H called URV a number of times to express her frustration and didnt 
understand how URV had made a decision without seeing Mr Ns scans. URV failed 
to explain its decisions until Miss H called. And didnt manage her expectations or 
proactively update her. 
The doctors who spoke to Miss H told her an AA may not be available without 
checking, which added to her frustration. She was also told about the risk of death 
when travelling in an AA although this was the only option available for Mr N. So this 
would have been distressing to hear. Overall, taking into consideration all of the above actions, I think URV unnecessarily caused 
additional stress, upset and frustration to Miss H and Mr N at a time when they were already 
distressed and would have felt helpless. In addition, Miss H has told us that she suffers from 
depression which URV were aware of. And so not being supported at such a distressing time 
meant Miss H became even more stressed when she called URV for assistance and 
guidance. 
URV accepts there were some failures but made the following points in response to the 
investigators opinion:
There was no justification in moving Mr N unless neurosurgery was likely to become 
necessary - and this wasnt necessary.
If Mr N had been repatriated earlier, there was a higher risk of complications. 
Ive carefully considered URVs response. But these explanations werent given to Miss H 
when she called and instead, she was told Mr N would be transferred. URV had arranged a 
transfer and had told Miss H that Mr N needed to be moved to a neuro-centre. But the 
transfer didnt go ahead. This meant Miss H was under the impression that Mr N did need 
neurosurgery and that the hospital he was in wasnt adequate. And the failed transfer would 
have added to her distress.
In addition, the risks around repatriation werent properly and fully explained in an 
empathetic way. And URV is expected to provide reasonable guidance and assistance which 
I think it failed to do. I think URV should have made attempts to arrange repatriation at an 
earlier stage as the treating doctors said Mr N was fit to fly. But I dont think URV provided a 
sufficient explanation about why it thought Mr N wasnt fit to fly at an earlier stage, when 
discussing this with Miss H. And it didnt explore the possibility of a transfer to a private 
hospital when the public hospital refused to accept Mr N. All of this left Miss H and Mr N 
feeling helpless and unsupported. 
And so I think its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for URV to pay Miss H and Mr 
N an additional £4,000 compensation to recognise the impact of URVs failures.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Union Reiseversicherung 
AG to pay Miss H and Mr N £4,000 compensation, in addition to the £500 already paid.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr N 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman