DRN-2858604
The complaint
Mrs M is complaining that the new car she bought from BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited trading as MINI Financial Services (BMW) was not of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mrs M acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement in August 2020 from BMW. 
Sometime around October 2020, a warning light which they believe related to the oil came 
on, and the car was taken back to the dealership. The dealer advised that the car would 
need to be booked in to check, but there would be no harm in continuing to drive it in the 
meantime. When Mrs M got home, her husband checked the oil levels via the dipstick, and 
confirmed there was oil in the car, so they continued to use the car. 
A few weeks later, and before the appointment they had booked at the dealership, the car 
broke down completely and a recovery service was called out. They advised that the car 
needed 3 litres of oil because the oil filler cap was not secured and was in fact laying on a 
shelf near where oil would be put into the car. The engine was covered in oil. Oil was added 
back to the car, and the car was recovered to the dealership. They returned the car to the 
correct oil level and replaced the cap, but the car now had considerable problems, and after 
diagnosis, they quoted around £13,000 for the engine to be replaced. 
Mrs M complained, saying that they had been told the warning light was nothing to be 
concerned about, but now the car had suffered a serious issue following on from this which 
should be fixed at no charge to herself. 
BMW investigated this, and in their final response letter sent in February 2021, they 
explained that there was no fault with the car when it was supplied, and that the problems 
had been caused because the oil filler cap had not been replaced causing the oil to leak out 
all over the engine causing the damage. They said that as this was the case, any repair 
costs would be the responsibility of Mrs M, because there was no fault with the car. As a 
gesture of goodwill, they offered to refund two monthly payments. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. The investigator who 
investigated the case here did not uphold the complaint. They felt that it seemed most likely 
that the problems had been caused by human error in not replacing the oil filler cap, and 
there was no evidence of faults with the car or the car being of unsatisfactory quality when it 
was supplied. 
Mrs M didnt agree with this view, and through her husband who she asked to deal with this 
on her behalf, told us that the car had been driven with the oil light on at the advice of the 
dealership.  They felt they were being penalised for following this advice. They asked for an 
Ombudsman to review the case therefore. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will refer to Mrs M below where we have been provided with testimony or evidence. She 
authorised her husband to deal with the complaint on her behalf, but for simplicity, I will refer 
throughout to Mrs M. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is of particular relevance to this complaint. It says that under 
a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says the quality of goods are satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
Mrs M believes the car had a fault developing from when she bought the car, and it was of 
unsatisfactory quality. She feels that the warning light which came on is evidence of this. The 
timeline of what happened and when is important in this case, so I will detail that first. 
- On 26 August 2020 the car was supplied, with 129 miles on the clock.
- Mrs M has told us that in around mid-October a warning light to do with the oil 
appeared on the dashboard, and they took the car back to the dealership. 
- The dealer booked the car in for mid-December, the first available appointment, but 
said that the car was fine to drive. 
- Mrs M has told us that when they got home, her husband checked the oil level on the 
dipstick as he had concerns about this advice. He has confirmed that the car was 
showing as having oil, and the engine was clean, not covered in oil. 
- 26 November 2020, the dealership has said the diagnostics system of the car shows 
an Oil pressure warning. The mileage at this point was 1138 miles. 
- December 2020 the car broke down and was recovered to the dealership. The job 
card dated 7 December 2020 says that the recovery service who took the car to them 
had said when they came out to the broken down car, they found the oil cap was left 
off on a shelf in the engine compartment, and the car had no oil in it. The mileage at 
this point was 1229.
Mrs M believes that an oil warning light was showing in Mid-October when they took the car 
back to the dealership, which proves that there was a problem with the oil level or system. 
However, the testimony from the dealership is that the warning light was actually saying the 
car was due an oil service and wasnt a warning light about the oil level or system. 
I wasnt present for this conversation that the dealership had with Mrs M, and there are no 
photos of the warning light to confirm which light it was. As such, I have considered what is 
most likely to have happened. If there was an issue with the oil in mid-October, I think its 
very unlikely the dealership would have only booked the car in to be checked in mid-
December. That would clearly risk damage being caused if there was a problem with the oil.  
The dealership has said that it was a service light, indicating a service was due, and 
because the car was so new, they knew this was just a malfunction of this warning light. The 
service lights are only supposed to come on when its either been a certain amount of time, 
or the car has travelled a certain number of miles, to indicate its time to take it for a service. 
The car wouldnt be due a service that early, so the dealership booked the car in for a few 
weeks later, to fix the issue with the warning light. In effect, the dealership is saying that they knew this wouldnt be risking any damage to the car, as the only issue was with the service 
light coming on at the wrong time.   
This explanation from the dealership is plausible. There are notes on the job card from 7 
December when the computer diagnostics were checked in the car. They mention that it had 
been an oil service lamp illuminated, not a warning light about the oil. On balance, I am 
satisfied that it is most likely that this warning light in mid-October was about an oil service, 
not a warning that there were any issues with the oil level or system. 
No evidence or testimony has been provided to say that the dealership lifted the bonnet and 
checked any part of the engine at this visit. They just booked the car in for a few weeks later 
to try to fix the service light coming on too early. Mrs M has then confirmed that after this trip 
to the dealership, her husband was slightly concerned, so he opened the bonnet to check 
the oil levels. He has told the business that there was oil on the dipstick, so he had no 
concerns then, and when asked by the business, he said that the engine wasnt covered in 
oil at this point. 
 
The next thing on the timeline is something uncovered from the computer diagnostics carried 
out in December. The dealership has said that the diagnostics indicate that on 26 November 
2020, an oil pressure fault was logged. The mileage at this point was logged as 1138 miles. 
The car wasnt inspected by a garage or mechanic, so we dont know what this issue was. 
But things that could cause an oil pressure warning could include a problem with the oil 
pump, a clogged oil filter, a problem with the sensor, or the car being low on oil.  
Then when the car broke down a few days later in early December, it had done a further 91 
miles. At this point, the testimony says it was recovered with no oil filler cap on, and the 
engine was covered with oil. The dealership has said that the damage done to the engine is 
conducive with the car being driven with no fuel filler cap on, meaning oil had spilled out all 
over the engine, and this in turn has meant there was no oil in the engine, and further 
damage has been caused by that.
I am satisfied that in mid-October, when the warning light came on, its most likely that was a 
light recommending the service. I agree that in such a new car, this would mean the light 
was malfunctioning, because a service wouldnt be expected so soon after purchasing a new 
car, and with the car having covered very few miles at that point. Mrs M accepted the car 
being booked in to repair this faulty light. I am satisfied that its most likely that this isnt 
linked to the problems which happened later on.  
I am also satisfied, based on the evidence available, that the cause of the engine failure was 
the oil filler cap being left off, causing the oil to spill out all over the engine, and the engine to 
be damaged from driving the car with no oil in the system. The oil pressure warning on 26 
November fits with this; its most likely the oil levels were low at this point, probably due to 
the oil filler cap not being secure properly, and this could trigger that warning. 
The remaining question is how the car ended up without its oil filler cap being secured. If the 
oil cap had not been secured properly when the car was originally supplied, its very unlikely 
that the car would have been able to be driven around 1000 miles over a 3 month period, 
before the engine failed. Alongside this, Mrs M told us that her husband opened the bonnet 
and checked the dipstick in mid-October, and the engine wasnt covered in oil at this point. 
That means that its most likely that the oil filler cap was correctly attached at this point. 
At some point after that, and most likely before 26 November, the oil filler cap has become 
detached. The fact that the recovery company said it was laid down on a shelf in the engine 
suggests that this was done manually; it is most likely the cap has been removed by 
someone and laid down on the shelf. The dealership also said that when the car was recovered to them in December, they were able to put the oil filler cap back on, and it 
secured fine and wasnt faulty.
It is most likely that the oil pressure warning logged in the car diagnostics on 26 November 
2020 was an indication of a low oil level. This came 91 miles before the car broke down, 
which I am satisfied is a plausible distance for the car to travel on low oil levels with no cap, 
before breaking down. The dealership job card does say the diagnostics showed warnings 
about oil and the oil pump when its recovered, but these were in December and most likely 
further problems caused by the oil filler cap not being in place.  
I cant say that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs M. The 
problems have been caused by human error; someone has unfortunately forgotten to 
replace the oil filler cap. Mrs M and her husband have said they wouldnt even know where 
the oil filler cap was in the engine to have done this. 
I empathise with Mrs M about the damage caused to the car and the cost to repair it. But I 
cant say that the business has done anything wrong here. No evidence or testimony has 
been provided to suggest that the dealership or anyone authorised by BMW have opened 
the bonnet of the car at any point after its supply, until December 2020 when the car was 
recovered back to the dealership, after all the damage had already been done.
Mrs Ms husband has said the engine was clean and not oil covered in mid-October when he 
checked the dipstick for Oil. This means its most likely that the oil filler cap was still secure 
at this point. The car was in the possession of Mrs M from this point, so I cant say that the 
business has done anything wrong here, and I wont be asking them to do anything more. 
It appears most likely that the problems have been caused by an unfortunate human error in 
leaving the oil filler cap off. And as the car wasnt inspected or worked on by BMW or anyone 
authorised by them during the period this is most likely to have happened (mid-October to 
December 2020), I cant say that the business has done anything wrong or should be liable 
for the costs to repair the car. 
    
I am aware the car has been left at the dealership pending a decision from our service. In 
their original final response letter, BMW also offered as a gesture of goodwill to refund Mrs M 
two monthly payments. Mrs M may wish to discuss this with BMW to see if the offer is still 
available when deciding how to proceed with the car going forward. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman