DRN-4132813
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost when he was the 
victim of what he feels was a scam.
What happened
In early 2022, Mr M was looking to have an extension built at his property. He says he got a 
number of quotes and then agreed with a local builder for them to do the work. Mr M and the 
builder agreed a contract setting out the work to be done and when the payments for the 
work would be made. Mr M then paid a deposit and the builder started the work. And Mr M 
made a number of payments to the builder over the following months, totalling £42,500.
Mr M says the first few payments to the builder were made in line with what was agreed in 
the contract, as specific parts of the work were completed. But the builder then asked for the 
next couple of payments to be made in advance due to the cost of materials increasing. 
Mr M says he reluctantly agreed to make a payment in advance but, after this payment, no 
new materials were delivered and the builder never did any further work on his property. 
Mr M then reported the payments he had made to Clydesdale as a scam, and asked it to 
refund the money he had lost.
Clydesdale investigated but said it felt this was a civil dispute between Mr M and the builder, 
and so didnt agree to refund the payments Mr M had made. It did pay Mr M £50 as 
compensation or the poor customer service he had received during his claim though. Mr M 
wasnt satisfied with Clydesdales response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said a significant amount of the 
agreed work had been completed, and they wouldnt expect a scammer to have carried out 
this amount of work. So they didnt think the builder had set out from the beginning to scam 
Mr M, and so didnt think Clydesdale should have to refund the money Mr M had lost. Mr M 
disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Clydesdale to refund the money Mr M 
has lost. Ill explain why below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Clydesdale is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victim of certain types of scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But customers 
are only covered by the code where they have been the victim of a scam.
The CRM code says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. So in order 
to determine whether Clydesdale should refund the money Mr M lost under the CRM code, I 
need to consider whether he has been the victim of a scam  or, in other words, whether the 
builder set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud him.
Mr M has said that, before agreeing the work with the builder, he spoke to someone else 
who was having work done by them. He says this person told him their work was three 
quarters completed and the builder was very good. Mr M also said he saw this persons 
property again later and the work had been completed. And I think its unlikely a scammer 
would have been able to arrange this kind of reference or complete so much work on 
another property.
The contract Mr M agreed with the builder set out in detail the work that was to be done and 
that future payments would only be made once specific parts of that work had been 
completed. Whereas Id expect a scammer to try to get as much money as possible as soon 
as possible, and without having to do very much work.
Mr M has also said that the first few stages of the agreed work were completed without a 
problem, which appears to be a significant amount of work. And hes said hes had other 
builders value the amount of work that was done at his property, and theyve said around 
£20,000 of work has been done. This is much more work than Id usually expect a scammer 
who never intended to complete the work to do.
The builder told Mr M they needed later payments to be made in advance, due to an 
increase in the cost of building materials. But I think this is a plausible reason for wanting to 
change when payments are made, and I dont think it necessarily suggests the builder was 
trying to scam Mr M.
And weve received information from the bank the money was sent to that they havent 
received any other fraud reports about the builders account and which shows the activity on 
the builders account at the time was similar to what Id expect of a genuine tradesperson.
I appreciate how Mr M feels about this case and that his property has been left unfinished. 
But, based on the evidence I have, I think its likely the builder was attempting to operate as 
a legitimate business at the time and that other factors ultimately meant the building work 
wasnt completed. I dont think the builder set out from the beginning with the intent to 
defraud Mr M, or that Mr M has been the victim of a scam here. 
So I dont think the payments Mr M made to the builder are covered under the CRM code, or 
that Clydesdale should be required to refund the money he lost.
I sympathise with the position Mr M has found himself in, and Im in no way saying he did 
anything wrong or that he doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the builder. But, for 
the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it would be fair to hold Clydesdale responsible 
for the money hes lost.
Clydesdale has paid Mr M £50 as compensation for the poor customer service he received 
while making this claim. And I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman