DRN-1936623
The complaint
Mr S complains that Transunion International UK Limited (TU) failed to record correct 
information on his credit file relating to his electoral roll registration. He wants the record 
corrected and compensation.
What happened
Mr S tells us that hes been trying to get his credit file amended and corrected for several 
years. He says that it doesnt accurately record the period of his electoral roll registration at 
his current address. And that this has led to him experiencing difficulties with accessing 
credit.
TU told us that the information it recorded was supplied by Mr S local authority. And that it 
was received electronically and uploaded without manual input. It said the information 
provided by the local authority had included a gap in 2013/14 when it indicated that he was 
not registered. As Mr S had provided evidence to show he was registered to vote at this time 
the record had subsequently been amended. But TU accepted it hadnt been dealt with this 
as well as mightve been expected and apologised for this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He felt TU had 
corrected the error it made and had made an apology. As Mr S hadnt experienced any 
direct financial loss due to the error, he didnt think TU needed to do anything else.
Mr S didnt accept this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I can understand that Mr S would be frustrated that its taken a long period of time to get his 
credit file updated and corrected. 
Im aware that Mr S has made reference to complaints about the same issue to other 
businesses. So I want to make it clear that my decision relates only to TU. Our investigator 
has explained that if Mr S wishes to raise complaints against other credit reference agencies 
then he should do so with those individual businesses.
I understand that Mr S first raised a complaint against a business Ill call N, in 2017. This 
business was later acquired by TU but by this time it appears his original complaint with N 
had been closed as a result of insufficient evidence having been supplied. 
Mr S brought his complaint to TU in January 2020.
Our investigator set out a timeline and details of what subsequently happened in his view 
letter of 26 May 2020. As both parties are aware of the contents, Ill not repeat it in detail.
Summarised, it explained the information with which TU had been provided by the relevant 
local authority. And what action TU had taken to update and correct Mr S record when he 
supplied evidence of his continuous registration on the electoral roll.
This showed TU hadnt at first recognised (following Mr S providing the evidence) that there 
was a gap in the information recorded about registration data for 2013/14. TU then corrected 
this oversight and apologised in its final response letter (FRL) of 21 February 2020.
Not every error by a business requires financial compensation. Dependent upon the 
circumstances, including where no direct financial loss has been evidenced, a correction of 
the error and an apology may be a fair and reasonable resolution of the complaint. I believe 
that is the situation here. TU issued the FRL within the timeline wed expect  in fact it took 
only four weeks of the eight week period allowed. And the FRL indicated that TU accepted 
its error and - along with an apology - had taken steps to correct it.
In summary, I find that TU recognised its error and took the required action to correct it and 
issue Mr S with an apology. I dont think it need to do anything else. Accordingly, Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman