DRN-3567562
The complaint
Mr S complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) failed to notify 
him that some shares he held were to be de-listed. And, that HLs app gave no clear advice 
to inform clients some shares are not suitable for a stocks and shares individual savings 
account (ISA).
What happened
Mr S held shares he purchased through HL. The shares, in a business I will call company 
C, were de-listed on 7 January 2021 and Mr S wasnt able to trade the shares. Mr S 
complained to HL that it was common knowledge the shares were to be de-listed as it had 
been reported in the press. He says the failure of HL to tell him earlier the shares were to be 
de-listed has caused him a financial loss.
Mr S also deposited funds within the HL app with the intention to invest in a stocks and 
share ISA. The shares Mr S wanted to purchase in a business I will call company T werent 
eligible to be held in a ISA. Mr S complained that HLs app provided no clear advice that 
some of the stocks and shares traded on the app were not available to place in an ISA.
HL provided separate final responses on each of these matters and didnt uphold the 
complaints. They said theyd only been aware the shares had been de-listed on 7 January 
2021 so didnt have the opportunity to tell clients of this. They also explained that once 
shares had been de-listed there is no value placed on the shares within its app. HL also 
explained to Mr S that their website did make it clear that the shares in company T werent 
suitable for an ISA.
Mr S was unhappy with the responses from HL and brought his complaints to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into things for Mr and concluded that 
HL didnt do anything wrong. HL had only been made aware of the de-listing on the day the 
shares had been suspended. Mr S told the Investigator that she hadnt considered the 
complaint about HLs app giving no clear advice that some shares available on its app 
couldnt be held within an ISA. The Investigator looked into this for Mr S and concluded there 
are specific rules about which investments can be held in an ISA. But its the consumers 
responsibility to be aware of those rules. So, the Investigator concluded there was nothing 
wrong with HL offering investments on its app which may or may not held within an ISA 
wrapper. 
Mr S didnt accept the conclusion of the Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides 
his complaint. The complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S referred me to a number of telephone calls he had with HL. For the avoidance of doubt, 
I can confirm that Ive listened to all of the calls he referred to. For completeness, Ive seen 
that Mr S and HL agreed that the two complaints could be considered within at the same 
time. I understand Mr S will be disappointed with my final decision, but I dont think HL did 
anything significantly wrong here. I will now explain why.
De-listing of shares
The crux of Mr S complaint is that HL failed to tell him in good time that shares in company 
C were to be suspended or de-listed. Mr S says there had been press articles at the time 
indicating the shares would likely be de-listed. Mr S has provided a screenshot of one such 
commentary, dated 4 January, for me to consider. I can see it says that the shares must be 
delisted by 11 January but could be suspended by 7 January. Ive considered this very 
carefully, but I dont consider this commentary is something HL could reasonably have relied 
on at the time. HL says it relies on announcements made by stock exchanges and I dont 
think this is an unreasonable approach for them to follow. HL received notification the shares 
couldnt be traded on 7 January and the shares were de-listed on 11 January.
Mr S says he only became aware the shares had been de-listed when he looked at his app 
later in the month and his account no longer showed any value for the shares in company C. 
Ive seen the screenshots Mr S sent showing no value assigned to these shares at this time. 
However, with the shares being de-listed it seems quite reasonable for HL to show no value 
for the shares, as there was currently no market for them to be traded, and therefore no 
indicative price they could reasonably use. I dont consider HL did anything wrong in this 
regard.
In a telephone call with Mr S on 22 January, HL accepted they hadnt notified him of the de-
listing of the shares. Mr S feels this is an admission that they shouldve told him, and that HL 
had agreed theyd done something wrong. I empathise with Mr S here, but the shares were 
suspended from 7 January and couldnt be traded in any event up to the point they were de-
listed.
I appreciate Mr S believes HL shouldve told him of the speculation surrounding the shares. 
However, Mr S purchased shares through HL on what is commonly called an execution-only 
basis. This means it was Mr S who was responsible for all investment decisions surrounding 
the shares he traded, and for carrying out research on his investments and the suitability of 
them. HL simply facilitated the trades. So, I dont consider HL had an obligation to provide 
Mr S with any advice or recommendations in relation to the shares. This wasnt the service 
Mr S entered into with HL.
ISA wrapper
In respect of the funds Mr S deposited with HL, it seems more likely than not he intended to 
invest into a stocks and share ISA, and he says he used the app to review shares in 
company T. Theres no dispute the app didnt make it clear these shares werent suitable to 
be invested in a UK stocks and shares ISA, or that Mr S was unable to purchase these 
shares within an ISA. Although I can see the HL app doesnt give an indication either way 
whether the shares in company T were qualifying shares for ISA purposes, HLs website 
does explain they werent qualifying. But, regardless of this, Mr S was an execution-only 
investor with HL. This means that when he deposited funds for his ISA it was his 
responsibility to ensure the shares, or funds he wanted to invest in, were qualifying for an 
ISA. The HL app is essentially a platform to quickly trade shares or funds within or outside 
an ISA. Ive already confirmed Mr S was an execution-only customer of HL, and I dont 
consider HL would reasonably be required to provide advice on which shares would qualify 
for an ISA unless Mr S subscribed to an advice service. 
An ISA trading account can be opened with cash, which appears to be what happened here. It was only when Mr S tried to purchase shares in company T using his ISA funds and 
wrapper that the trade was rejected. In my opinion I consider the share choice is ultimately 
the responsibility of Mr S. And although the app didnt make it expressly clear the shares in 
company T were non-qualifying for ISA purposes, the fact sheet relating to these shares 
explains that investors should check the data independently. Ive also seen the HL website 
did make it expressly clear that shares in company T were non-qualifying for ISA purposes. I 
consider it wouldve been reasonable for an investor to have checked whether the funds 
were able to be invested into an ISA before investing through the app. So, for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont consider HL did anything wrong here. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold the complaints Mr S made against Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman