DRN-1235632
 
The complaint
Mr R complains about a claim he made on his mobile phone insurance policy with 
Assurant General Insurance Limited
What happened
Mr R called Assurant General to make a claim after he lost his phone. He explained he 
wasn't sure if his phone was lost or stolen.
Assurant General let him know the claim was accepted, and there'd be a £100 excess 
payable should he wish to proceed with the claim. Mr R wanted to know if he'd be given a 
new phone, and if it would be the same model, and colour as the one he was claiming for.
Assurant General said at this stage of the claim it couldn't tell Mr R if his phone was in stock, 
and it said it couldn't guarantee the same model or colour as Mr R's phone. It said it would 
try to replace like for like, but if it couldn't, it would offer an alternative or  a cash settlement.
Mr R proceeded with the claim and paid his excess. After doing so, Assurant General said 
his phone wasn't in stock, and offered him an alternative, or a cash settlement of £200.
Mr R queried the cash settlement as he'd just paid £100 excess and had bought the phone 
new, only a few months earlier, for £349. The advisor explained the cash settlement was 
made to replace his phone as it was now, not replace it with a new one. Mr R chose the 
alternative model and was told his phone would be delivered in one to three days.
Six days later, Mr R called Assurant General as he'd not received his phone. He was also 
unhappy the previous advisor didn't check the stock before taking the excess. He also said 
the advisor was 'pushy'.
The advisor on the second call said they would have checked the stock before taking the 
excess, but that this wasn't something they had to do. They also said there was an error 
meaning Mr R's phone hadn't been sent to him as it should have been.
Mr R was unhappy with this, and complained. Assurant General then offered a different, 
upgraded phone and £50 compensation for the delay.
Mr R remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. He said the first advisor should 
have checked the stock on the first call, and he said he was left 10 days without a phone. He 
wanted £300 compensation and the excess waived.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. He thought 
Assurant General had acted in line with the policy by offering an alternative, and he didn't 
think it needed to check stock before proceeding with the claim. He said he listened to the 
call and didn't find the advisor pushy. He did think Assurant General were responsible for the 
delay in sending Mr R his phone. But he thought Assurant General's offer of compensation 
was reasonable.Mr R didn't agree and has asked for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm not upholding Mr R's 
complaint. I'll explain why.
As I understand it, Mr R is unhappy the first advisor he spoke to didn't check to see if his 
phone was available before taking his excess. I can understand this, especially as Mr R's 
phone wasn't in stock. Mr R's frustrations were made worse by the second advisor saying 
they would have checked the availability of Mr R's phone before taking the excess.
But I don't think the advisor needed to check the availability before proceeding with the 
claim. Assurant General needs to give Mr R clear information to help him decide if he wants 
to make a claim with it. And I'm satisfied it did. The advisor told Mr R he couldn't guarantee 
his phone would be in stock, and he said the phone offered wouldn't be new - it would be 
refurbished. He told Mr R Assurant General aimed to provide a like for like, but if it couldn't it 
would offer Mr R an alternative, or a cash settlement.
Mr R's policy says Assurant General will do just that too. I'm satisfied Assurant General 
made it clear to Mr R that should he wish to proceed with the claim, he might not be offered 
the same phone as his.
I'm also satisfied the alternative phone and cash settlement it offered Mr R was fair and 
reasonable too. The model it offered was of equivalent specification as per the policy, and 
the amount it offered would have enabled Mr R to buy a refurbished model himself 
elsewhere.
But Assurant General did cause a delay in Mr R receiving his phone. Due to the first 
replacement he was offered - and ultimately accepted - also being out of stock, his 
replacement phone was never ordered. This was only picked up when Mr R called in to 
chase the delivery of his handset. I can't be sure when Assurant General would have noticed 
this if Mr R hadn't called in to chase. But I have to look at what happened, not what could 
have happened.
This delay led to Mr R being without his phone for longer than he should have been, and this 
undoubtedly would have inconvenienced him. He's said during this time he had to use his 
dad's phone. But I'm satisfied Assurant General have done enough to put this right already. 
So I'm not recommending it to do anything more.
Mr R was offered a further alternative, and I'm satisfied this is of higher specification than his 
original phone, and the first replacement offered by Assurant General. And I'm satisfied £50 
compensation is also fair in the circumstances.
 
 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold Mr R's complaint against Assurant General Insurance 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman