DRN-2905343
The complaint
Mr H, in his capacity as trustee of a trust M, has complained that Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd failed to act on instructions given by the trustees to switch investment funds.
What happened
M was established in 2004 and £33,600 was invested in a collective investment bond (CIB). 
The settlor, Miss B, was also a trustee, along with Mr B (her brother) and Mr C (her financial 
adviser), who worked for Quilter. 
In 2019, Mr B, Miss B and her neighbour, Mr H (who jointly held a lasting power of attorney 
(POA) for Miss B with Mr B), sought advice from Quilter in relation to the CIB. On 
2 September 2019 they met with an adviser from Quilter, who carried out a fact-find and 
attitude to risk assessment. The adviser determined the trusts attitude to risk had changed 
and was now conservative.
The adviser sent a suitability report to the trustees dated 18 October 2019. He 
recommended the trust retain the CIB but switch the existing portfolio to a portfolio in line 
with the conservative attitude to risk. Mr H says that the trustees accepted the 
recommendation and in November 2019 provided their authority for Quilter to proceed.
In early 2020 Mr B initiated the removal of Miss B and Mr C as trustees, replacing them with 
his son, Mr T, and Mr H.
In March 2020 the trustees received a valuation showing the CIB portfolio hadnt been 
switched and the value of the CIB had decreased. Mr H complained on behalf of the 
trustees, saying they hadnt heard anything from Quilter to say the switch wouldnt be going 
ahead. He said they assumed it had been actioned, given Miss B and Mr B had agreed to 
the switch in November 2019 and they thought Mr C had also agreed to it.
Quilter didnt uphold the complaint, saying it couldnt carry out the switch without consent 
from all of the trustees and Mr C hadnt agreed. Furthermore, it said Mr B had written to it on 
30 September 2019 to advise that Miss B may lack capacity to make decisions and he 
thought they may need to appoint new trustees. Quilter said the switch couldnt go ahead in 
these circumstances. Mr H referred the trustees complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying Quilter told Mr C on 30 October 2019 
that it couldnt proceed as it appeared Miss B no longer had capacity and would need to be 
removed as trustee. The investigator said Mr C wouldve been expected to pass this 
message on to the remaining trustees. She didnt think Quilter needed to communicate this 
to the other trustees.
Mr H and the other trustees didnt agree so the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision. Mr H said Quilter had been inconsistent as it had accepted instructions from Miss B 
in November 2019 in relation to another trust. He thought Miss B had capacity to make 
decisions at the time of the advice. Mr H also said it was unreasonable for the adviser not to 
communicate that the portfolio switch wasnt going to be going ahead to him and the other 
trustees.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
At the time the advice was given, Miss B, Mr B and Mr C were the trustees of M. Although 
Mr H and Mr B held a POA for Miss B, this did not mean that Mr H was able to act as trustee 
on behalf of Miss B.
Under the relevant law, trustees of a trust must make decisions jointly, unless the trust deed 
expressly says otherwise. Ive reviewed the trust deed, but it does not say anything about 
individual trustees being able to make decisions affecting the trust independently of the 
others. So, Im satisfied that all of the trustees needed to agree to any recommendation 
made by Quilter for it to proceed.
I can see that Miss B, Mr B and Mr H met with a Quilter adviser on 2 September 2019 to 
discuss the CIB and the trusts objectives and attitude to risk. Mr C did not attend the 
meeting. The adviser completed a fact-find some time after the meeting, which included 
notes explaining that there was some doubt over Miss Bs mental state but hed been 
advised by Mr B and Mr H that he could continue on the basis that she still had capacity. The 
adviser recorded that Mr B and Mr H did not feel it was necessary to force a medical 
examination to establish Miss Bs mental capacity but it would be looked at in the near 
future. It was also noted that Mr C would not usually be permitted to act as trustee as he was 
an employee of Quilter but that a concession had been made here. The evidence Ive seen 
shows the concession was agreed on 3 October 2019.
Following the meeting, the adviser completed a suitability report dated 18 October 2019 for 
the trustees of M. Mr H says that Miss B and Mr B returned the necessary forms to allow the 
recommended switch to proceed. He also said that the matter was discussed with Mr C on 
4 November 2019 and he did not give them any reason to believe he would not consent to 
the portfolio switch.
Ive seen evidence showing that Quilter was not prepared to carry out the switch at this time.  
This was because Mr B had written to Quilter on 30 September 2019 to advise that Miss B 
had some degree of dementia and he had concerns that her capacity to make decisions on 
important matters and sign legal documents was doubtful. Mr B said that a medical 
examination might be required but he did not wish to put Miss B through that if it could be 
avoided. He said he would prefer to carry on under the existing arrangements.
Based on the information provided, Quilter did not wish to proceed with the switch. Quilter 
accepts that the adviser shouldnt have issued a suitability report given the doubts raised 
about Miss Bs mental capacity. I agree that this shouldnt have been issued, and would 
probably have given Miss B, Mr B and Mr H the impression that Quilter was happy to provide 
advice to the trustees in these circumstances. But Quilter told Mr C on 30 October 2019 that 
because of the doubts raised about Miss Bs capacity, she would need to legally removed as 
trustee before advice could be provided to the trust. So, the matter was clarified quickly, and 
before Miss B and Mr B returned the forms in November 2019, giving their consent to 
implement Quilters recommended portfolio switch.I dont why Mr C didnt tell Mr B or Mr H about the reservations Quilter had, given Mr H tells 
us that they spoke about things on 4 November 2019. But Im satisfied that Quilter notified 
the trustees, via Mr C, that the switch would not be proceeding. I dont think it had any 
obligation to inform the other trustees separately  I think it was entitled to assume that Mr C 
would inform the other trustees, bearing in mind that trustees needed to work together to 
manage the trust.
Mr H feels that because Mr C is an employee of Quilter, Quilter must take some 
responsibility for Mr Cs shortcomings. However, I think it is important to note that Mr C was 
acting in an individual capacity as a trustee  he was not acting on behalf of Quilter. So, 
even though Mr C was working for Quilter at the time, I dont think Quilter should be held 
responsible for Mr C not communicating the situation adequately to the other trustees.
Mr H has also said that Miss B had capacity at the time the advice was provided  he said 
that her having dementia didnt mean she had no mental capacity to make decisions. He 
also says that Quilters approach is inconsistent as it accepted her instructions relating to 
products held in other trusts around the same time.
I accept that in the absence of a medical examination having taken place, Quilter could not 
say whether or not Miss B had lost capacity to such an extent that she wasnt able to make 
decisions. However, given the concerns raised by Mr B about Miss Bs capacity, I dont think 
it was unreasonable for Quilter to take a cautious approach here. Quilter still had a duty to 
protect the trusts assets. And I think that having been informed that one of the trustees may 
no longer have capacity, I dont think it was unreasonable for Quilter to decide against 
proceeding until new trustees had been appointed. Furthermore, Mr C did not provide his 
consent to the switch at the time. So even if we could say with certainty that Miss B retained 
the capacity to make decisions, Quilter didnt have consent from all of the trustees, which it 
needed in order to proceed.
I appreciate the trustees are frustrated with Quilter taking a different approach with another 
investment, by accepting Miss Bs consent. But in this complaint I can only consider whether 
its actions were reasonable in respect of its approach to Ms investments.
Mr H says the adviser shouldve also kept them updated. Ive seen an internal email from the 
adviser in which he says he kept Mr H and Mr B updated by phone. I havent been provided 
with any call recordings or phone notes to support this. But ultimately I dont think it makes a 
difference whether the adviser kept Mr H and Mr B updated  Quilter informed Mr C about 
the issue, so I think it did enough in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the trustees of M 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman