DRN-3028978
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
September 2002. Mr and Mrs P say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold 
them the PPI.
What happened
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ps. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think NatWest made it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was arranged during a meeting when Mr and Mrs P were arranging their 
mortgage. NatWest isnt able to provide any paperwork from the time of sale - this is 
unfortunate, but unsurprising for a sale that took place so long ago. So, Ive considered 
Mr and Mrs Ps comments alongside what we know in general about how NatWest sold 
PPI at the time to decide whats more likely to have happened. Based on what I know 
about how NatWest sold PPI I wouldve expected a discussion with the advisor to involve 
a decision about the level of cover and to set up the policy. In Mr and Mrs Ps case it was 
decided the policy would cover Mr P only. 
I also think its likely Mr and Mrs P wouldve had to complete some paperwork at the time, 
and this is likely to have reflected the discussions they had at the time with the adviser. 
NatWest has provided the separate direct debit mandate that Mr and Mrs P completed, 
which also indicates they knew they were taking out PPI. Taking everything into account, 
I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs P knew the policy was optional and they agreed to 
take it out without undue pressure.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs P - so it didnt have to check that the 
PPI was right or suitable for them. However, it did have to give Mr and Mrs P enough 
clear and timely information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr P. Although Mr 
P says he had a medical condition some time before the policy was taken out I dont 
think better information about the existing medical condition exclusion wouldve caused 
them to change their minds about taking out the policy. I say this because the condition 
Mr P has referred to occurred many years before the sale of the PPI. It seems the 
condition was treated at the time with medication. Mr P hasnt said anything to suggest 
the condition affected his ability to work or resulted in him taking extended periods of 
time off work. So I think Mr P couldve still benefitted from the cover. There were also no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. 
Mr and Mrs P have referred to the death in service benefit Mr P was entitled to. This 
cover isnt comparable to the PPI which specifically covered Mr P if he lost his job or was 
too unwell to work. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have 
been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs P 
would have declined the cover had NatWest done anything more.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage was a significant and long-term financial 
commitment, which was secured on their home. The effects of not keeping up with the 
repayments couldve been serious for them. I think having the security that their 
repayments wouldve been made if Mr P was unable to work wouldve been important to 
them. Overall it seems to me the PPI wouldve been of use if Mr P was unable to work.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs P would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant NatWest should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ps particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means NatWest doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman