DRN-2319134
The complaint
Miss L complains that FCL Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Smart-Pig.com, lent to her
irresponsibly. She describes that she was a struggling student at the time and this put me
further into financial difficulty.
Miss L is represented by a third party. 
What happened
Using information from Smart Pigs final response letter to Miss L, here is a brief loan table.
I have included the Student Loan income information it has provided.
Loan Issued Amount lent 
(repaid - rounded)Date Loan 
repaidStudent loan
1 10 August 2017 £150 (£176) 25 September
2017
2 20 March 2018 £100 (£114) 9 April 20182017/18
academic year 
student finance
£7,097
3 15 September
2018£200 (£214) 24 September
2018
4 11 March 2019 £250 (£345) 29 April 20192018/19
academic year
£6,892
Maintenance 
Loan
The Smart Pig loans were aimed at the Student market. Its credit agreements reflect this.
And during the application process Smart Pig has explained that it needed to see
confirmation of the Student Loan funding dates and amounts before approving a loan. The
loans were for between 30 to 120 days and were meant to be paid off in one lump sum
before the next Student Loan credit arrived. A loan could be repaid early. For each of the
loans for Miss L we have been provided with the credit search results carried out by Smart
Pig. We have not seen the specific credit agreements.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Smart Pig should put things
right for Miss L for Loan 4. Smart Pig disagreed.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on 22 October 2020 indicating that I did not plan to uphold Miss Ls 
complaint, and I invited additional evidence and/or comments by 5 November 2020. Smart 
Pig has replied to say it has nothing to add. We have not heard from Miss L or her 
representative.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Before lending 
money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to understand whether the 
consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a sustainable manner without it 
adversely impacting on their financial situation.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks,
they did list several things a lender could consider before agreeing to lend. The key element
was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider several different things,
including how much was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid.
My provisional findings are set out here:
Gaps in the lending
Smart Pig had referred to gaps between the loans in its final response letter (FRL) to Miss L
and to this service in response to our adjudicators view. I can see that the loans were for
modest sums and were repaid quickly. Miss Ls representative sent to us a copy of her
credit file and I have cross-referenced each of these loans on it: each were paid in
accordance with these dates on the Loan Table above. Each one coincides with academic
terms as one would expect. And each has gaps which range from just over five months and
just short of six months.
I have considered the fact that Smart Pig directs its lending services towards students, and
so relatively infrequent borrowing may be a usual pattern when compared to customers in
employment with a monthly salary. But I can also see that Miss L did not borrow from Smart
Pig often  twice each academic year. So, I have decided that the gaps do need to be
considered, and I have done that.
Expenditure figures
Smart Pig has given us a table of what it said were the expenditure figures for Miss L. But
the loan identifying numbers and the dates do not match with the identifying numbers in
Smart Pigs FRL. And two sections of that expenditure table show £0 for each entry and are
one day apart in March 2019. I plan to ignore all this evidence relating to expenditure figures
as I do not think it relates to Miss Ls application history and/or the £0 figures tell me nothing.
Irresponsibility
Miss Ls representative has not disagreed with the adjudicators view about Loans 1 and 2
and so I take those to be undisputed and I say no more about them.
For Loan 3 our adjudicator made it clear that without additional financial information from
Miss L to establish what further checks by Smart Pig may have revealed then she was not
able to uphold her complaint on that loan. No further information has been received by us
from Miss L or her representative.
As I have decided that I do plan to take into account the gaps in the lending history then I do
think that Smart Pig ought to have known about Miss Ls expenditure as well as her income
before approving Loan 3. As I do not have that information from either party then I have
assessed what I do have. 
Loan 3 was for £200 at the beginning of a new academic year and Miss Ls credit search 
result was not such that it dd not reveal anything untoward. She had shown Smart Pig that 
her income for that academic year was going to be £6,892, about £2,300 each term.
Based on what Smart Pig knew, I have provisionally decided not to uphold Miss Ls
complaint about Loan 3.Loan 4 was applied for five and a half months later. It was for £250. Smart Pig knew her
income. I have no useful information about what it knew about her expenditure.
Ive reviewed Miss Ls own credit file records and the one from Smart Pig which correlates
with Loan 4. I can see that Miss Ls overall debt increased as her credit card limits increased
as do her balances. And she started to use mail order accounts more often as time goes on.
But at the time Miss L was applying for Loan 4, and on the evidence I have now, I do not
think that the credit search results from Smart Pig reveal enough to not lend to her and I do
not think that it was irresponsible of it to approve Loan 4.
I do see that Miss Ls own credit file records reveal that she started to use other payday
lenders but these post-date the Loan 4 application with Smart Pig. Her credit situation did
deteriorate but this seems to commence after her Smart Pig lending had been arranged. So,
these are not relevant to my provisional decision.
I will review the complaint in two weeks.
advice
Miss Ls representative also complained on her behalf that Smart Pig failed to provide her
with appropriate advice towards free debt management advice which may have prevented a
further increase in her debt and adverse credit history. As I have no information from Smart
Pig about that I cannot make a finding on it.
Ive not received any arguments or evidence to persuade me to alter my provisional findings. 
And so, I have decided that these are my final decision findings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman