DRN-2762631
The complaint
Mr R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc refused to agree to a counter cash 
withdrawal on a Saturday.
To settle the complaint Mr R would like NatWest to apologise and pay compensation
What happened
Mr R needed to pay a third party for repairs to his canal barge which he says hed agreed to 
pay by cash. He also says he needed to collect the cash on a Saturday as he works Monday 
to Friday and cant get to a branch during the week. He also explained that the funds werent 
available in his account any earlier as hed sold shares to pay for the repairs. And the 
proceeds werent in his account until the Friday before he needed to make the cash 
withdrawal.
Mr R says he tried to contact NatWest by telephone but when he couldnt get through, he 
used the banks on-line chat service to request a cash withdrawal in a branch on the 
Saturday. But he was told that  due to the Covid-19 pandemic and associated lockdown, 
NatWest had suspended counter services on a weekend. As a result, Mr R says he incurred 
additional costs as he couldnt remove his barge until the repairs had been paid for.
 
Mr R complained to NatWest. It apologised for the inconvenience caused but explained that 
given the wider circumstances at the time, it was asking its customers to only visit a branch if 
absolutely necessary. And that some services  such as counter services, werent available 
during weekend operating hours. It provided Mr R with a link to its website that set out the 
changes to its services. 
Unhappy with NatWests response Mr R referred the complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it but concluded that NatWest hadnt made an error. So, he didnt 
uphold Mr Rs complaint.  
Mr R didnt accept this outcome. So, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as our investigator. I know Mr R 
will be disappointed with my decision, so Ill explain why.
Wider circumstances are relevant to this case. During the Covi-19 pandemic the regulator of 
the financial services industry, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), published statements 
setting out its expectations of banks and building societies. They were expected to keep 
branches open where possible to support their customers, but also to take precautions to 
keep staff and customers safe. The FCA recognised that the pandemic would impact the 
services banks and building societies could provide, and it urged customers only to visit 
branches where absolutely necessary and to use other means of doing their banking where 
possible. 
As a result, NatWest says it made the decision  amongst other things, not offer a counter 
service on a weekend. And, in light of the FCA guidance, I think it was for NatWest to decide 
which services it could offer and when during the pandemic. 
I acknowledge such changes in service can to be inconvenient for customers  as I 
appreciate it was for Mr R. So, I would expect information about service changes to be made 
available to customers and alternative banking options to be explained in order to minimise 
any inconvenience. 
And here, as mentioned above, NatWest advertised its service changes on its website. And 
having reviewed a transcript of the content of the on-line chat Mr R had with NatWest, Im 
satisfied the service alteration was explained to him and that NatWest suggested to Mr R 
that he could make the payment he needed via a bank transfer. 
I note Mr R has suggested he wouldve preferred to speak to NatWest on the phone, but he 
couldnt get through  hence, having to use the on-line chat facility. I acknowledge that this 
might not have been Mr Rs preferred way of contacting NatWest. But Im satisfied that he 
got a response to his enquiries by contacting NatWest via the on-line chat facility. And the 
information he was given was correct and a reasonable alternative for making the payment 
he needed to make was provided. 
I understand Mr R has suggested that he may have got a different response from NatWest 
had he been able to discuss the matter on the phone. But Im afraid I dont agree. As 
mentioned above, the decision to not offer counter services on a weekend was a decision 
NatWest had made across all its branches and this was communicated on its website. In 
light of this, Im not persuaded contacting the business by phone would have resulted in 
NatWest agreeing to his request to withdraw cash over the counter on a Saturday as this 
was a service it wasnt offering at this time. 
I appreciate Mr R would have preferred to make the payment by paying in cash. But I think 
NatWest offered Mr R a reasonable alternative to make the payment he needed to make. A 
bank transfer is credited to the recipients account the day the transfer is authorised. And I 
havent seen any reason why Mr R couldnt transfer the money he needed to pay in this way. 
So, while I appreciate Mr Rs strength of feeling on the matter, I dont think NatWest is 
responsible for the additional costs he incurred. So, I wont be telling NatWest to take any 
further action in respect of this complaint.
Mr R has also referred to some issues during NatWests complaint process. Generally 
speaking, and as the investigator has explained, this service is unable to comment on issues 
involved in the complaint handling process as complaint handling is not a regulated activity. 
But Ive read the emails Mr R has sent us and - ultimately, I dont think the points he has 
made have impacted on his ability to refer his complaint to this service. And I dont think they 
affect the outcome of the crux of Mr Rs complaint. 
My final decisionIm sorry to disappoint Mr R, but for the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman