DRN-2257113
The complaint
Mrs C complains that One Insurance Limited ("One") unfairly handled a claim she made 
under her legal cover policy.
What happened
In January 2019 Mrs S purchased a home insurance policy through an online comparison 
website. Alongside this policy, she purchased family legal cover for £25 which covered her 
for the period of her insurance.
On 17 June 2019 Mrs S contacted One as shed lost a breach of contract case and wanted 
to use her One legal cover to appeal the courts decision. She explained she only had until 
27 June 2019 to appeal. But One said it would take 10 working days for advice to be given.
Mrs S contacted One again on 25 June 2019 and was told the query hadnt yet been passed 
on, but it would treat this as a priority. It also said this may take 15 working days until the 
advice was given. Company A, a firm of solicitors working for One, contacted Mrs S on 3 
July 2019 to say it had received her query. And shortly after one of its agents told her they 
didnt believe she had a point of law to appeal on.
Mrs S contacted One on 29 July 2019 as she hadnt spoken to a solicitor, only a legally 
trained agent. She complained saying the delays in responding to her meant she had missed 
her opportunity to appeal the case and incurred many related costs.
One agreed there had been a delay of Company A responding to the claim. But it said as 
Mrs S legal dispute had already been the subject of a court decision, in line with its policy 
terms, it wouldnt have offered representation and shed have needed to seek this 
separately. So One said representation wouldve never been available under this policy, but 
it did apologise for the delay in telling her this, offering £300 in compensation. 
Mrs S brought her complaint to our service. She said the advice hadnt been provided within 
the 10 working days as it had promised (instead it had been 13), and the advice provided 
conflicted with advice she was given by other legal professionals since. She said Ones 
delayed advice had cost her around £2,700 in legal fees as well as other costs. 
And Mrs S said she missed her deadline to appeal the case (which remained not in her 
favour) as a result. She said if One had looked at the case properly and said whether or not 
she had a point of law, she couldve borrowed money from relatives and sought their own 
solicitor instead of missing the deadline to appeal. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
it seemed Company As advice had come from a qualified solicitor on day 13. And he said 
Ones policy excluded claims related to ongoing disputes  such as Mrs S so this policy 
wouldve never covered her in the way she wanted. The investigator agreed there had been 
a delay, but concluded Ones offer of £300 was fair. 
Mrs S disagreed saying Ones advice was different to her own solicitor and barrister she 
subsequently instructed. She mentioned she had other legal cover elsewhere but has 
provided no details of this. Mrs S has also complained that she was mis-sold her policy. As 
our investigator has explained to Mrs S, this complaint will need to be considered separately.
So the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs S wanted to claim under her policy in relation to a case that had already been to court. 
The policy provides cover for a dispute relating to purchasing or hiring goods and services 
as a consumer and as I understand it, the claim involved this type of dispute. So on the face 
of it, this is a claim that might be covered. But One says it wouldnt cover this type of 
situation. So Ive looked at the policy. Under its list of exclusions it includes the following 
points:
Costs associated with an appeal or judicial review.
Any appeal where we did not provide cover for the original claim.
So its clear to me One wouldve never provided representation to Mrs S and Im satisfied its 
declined that part of the claim fairly. However, before reaching this conclusion, Id expect 
One to consider the claim properly, assess whether it falls within any of the heads of cover, 
and then decide whether any of the exclusions apply.
It doesnt seem to me One ever did this. Instead, it simply passed the matter to solicitors to 
provide some advice through its helpline service. It told her it would provide support within 
ten working days but I cant see this timeframe was specified anywhere or within the policy 
booklet itself. One has agreed it took too long to get back to Mrs S and awarded her £300 in 
compensation.
Looking at the sequence of events, it doesnt seem to me that One considered Mrs S claim 
correctly in the way Id expect it to. The information provided to her wasnt clear and she 
didnt hear back from the helpline, despite stressing the urgency of the situation. The 
standard of service provided to her during this period was poor and she was left not knowing 
whether her claim would be considered or what level of support she could expect to receive.
So Ive thought about whether that sum is fair in the circumstances. Mrs S has said if shed 
been told she had a point of appeal earlier shed have instructed her own solicitors. 
However, Im not persuaded this wouldve changed her situation as she has suggested. 
I say this as One said based on her description of the case, she didnt have grounds to 
appeal. So its unclear to me why she wouldve needed this clarification before seeking 
representation herself. Mrs S has said since the advice given wasnt correct, but has 
provided nothing to support this.
In addition, Mrs S has mentioned having legal cover elsewhere within her complaint that the 
policy was mis-sold. But given time was of the essence for her, its unclear to me why she 
wouldnt have used alternative cover she said she had at the time.It follows Im not persuaded that Ones delay in responding by several days caused Mrs S 
any disadvantage or prejudiced her position as shes described. I appreciate that it caused 
her additional distress at a time that would already have been stressful for her, but taking 
into account the timescales involved and the fact that it didnt prejudice her position, I think 
the £300 already offered is a fair sum to reflect the impact on her.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman