DRN-3780340
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has failed to pay 
appropriate redress after it admitted it should have given them better investment advice 
when they invested in a plan that was too risky for them.
Mr and Mrs T are represented by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
In August 2003, on the recommendation of a Halifax adviser, Mr and Mrs T invested £10,357 
into a Joint Personal Investment Plan (PIP) with a cautious/medium level of risk. The plan 
was made up of a portfolio of investments as follows:
20% UK FTSE All Share Index Tracking
15% Pelican
15% High Income
50% Gilt and Fixed Interest.
I dont know for certain whether the plan is still active. The CMC said the plan was 
surrendered in February 2020 although that isnt reflected in the business redress 
calculation. But this makes no overall difference to my decision. 
In August 2021, Mr and Mrs T complained to Halifax that as the PIP was split 50/50 between 
equities and fixed interest securities this meant the overall level of risk was too high given 
Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances and financial situation. Mr and Mrs T said they should have 
been advised to reduce their overall level of risk and the appropriate recommendation would 
have been to place their funds into a genuinely cautious fund.
Halifax said it was sorry it didnt give better advice when Mr and Mrs T originally took out the 
plan. It carried out a calculation comparing the plan's performance with that of a no-risk 
benchmark and concluded, after taking into account the current plan value, that 
Mr and Mrs T are better off having taken the plan when compared to the return they might 
reasonably have expected if they had left the money in cash and not invested. So Halifax 
said no payment is due to Mr and Mrs T as they havent made a loss overall. 
Mr and Mrs T werent happy with the way Halifax assessed redress and so they brought their 
complaint to us. Our investigator concluded the same as Halifax. He felt the benchmark used 
for comparing performance and calculating redress was fair. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with the investigator. On Mr and Mrs Ts behalf, the CMC said, in 
short, that they should have been recommended to invest in a product with a cautious 
rating and so the appropriate benchmark used to calculate redress should reflect this and it 
isnt fair and reasonable to assess redress based on an assumption that no investment at all 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs T.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Although the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt always have power to investigate 
complaints about events that happened more than six years ago, Halifax has said it 
consents to us looking at this complaint. So I am able to consider Mr and Mrs Ts complaint 
and decide whether its redress proposal is fair.
My role here is to look at the approach taken to put Mr and Mrs T back in the position they 
would have been in had they not been given the unsuitable advice in 2003 and to ensure 
that this is fair. 
Halifax based its approach on Mr and Mrs T having not invested at all. In order to decide 
whether the redress benchmark Halifax has chosen to put things right for Mr and Mrs T is 
fair and reasonable, I need to consider what I think would have been a suitable investment 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs T had they not been given the advice Halifax has agreed 
was unsuitable. 
In agreeing with Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, Halifax said that increasing the amount of their 
overall portfolio of investments may not have been prudent and it would have been better 
to withhold the money in savings and not place it at risk, particularly as you mentioned you 
did not want any risk to your money.
But I dont agree with this assessment, given what I know about Mr and Mrs Ts 
circumstances based on the point of sale paperwork I have seen.
When Mr and Mrs T met the adviser in August 2003, they were both in their seventies and 
retired from work with a joint monthly income of around £785, made up mostly of pensions 
and including £178 or so interest income from existing investments. With monthly 
expenditure of around £535, they had a net disposable monthly income of £250.
Together they had £65,840 in cash deposits and £51,741 in unit linked investments and 
Personal Equity Plans (PEPs). The fact find indicates this money had come from 
accumulated savings or a lump sum. 
This meant that they had around 44% of their potential investment money already tied up in 
asset backed investments  so at some risk. And whilst I agree with Halifax that investing 
another £10,357 in the recommended plan was unsuitable, given the level of exposure to 
volatile equities, it doesnt follow that no investment at all was suitable.
After Mr and Mrs T invested £10,357 on Halifaxs recommendation, this meant they now had 
just over half of their money  around 53% - invested and the rest still in cash. For people in 
Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances and financial situation, I dont think this was too high a 
proportion of their wealth to have tied up and at some limited risk.  
I say this because although their income was relatively low, Mr and Mrs T seemed to enjoy a 
modest lifestyle and they told the adviser they had ample for their day to day needs. 
I've taken into account that a proportion of Mr and Mrs Ts monthly income included 
investment income of £178, so this was potentially variable and couldnt be entirely 
depended on. But even without this investment income, they still had pensions amounting to 
£607 per month and access to cash savings of more than £50,000 even after investing 
another £10,357. If their investments didnt perform as they hoped, Mr and Mrs T wouldnt necessarily have needed to break into their cash reserves as lost investment income could 
have been absorbed on a monthly basis given they had a £250 net surplus. 
So I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs T had enough spare money to invest another £10,357 and 
some capacity to absorb loss. In thinking about what level of risk, if any, was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs T, Ive kept in mind their investment objectives.
Halifax recorded that Mr and Mrs T wanted greater potential medium to long term growth 
than could be achieved by leaving their £10,357 on deposit in their Halifax Saver Reward 
account as they were concerned the money wasnt growing with inflation. They had no plans 
to spend those funds within the next 5 years. Given their ages and lifestyle, with no 
outstanding debts (including no mortgage), in the absence of any dependents and no wishes 
to provide a lump sum to anyone else in the event of their deaths, it seems reasonable to me 
that Mr and Mrs T would have wanted to do something with some of their available 
investment pot to improve upon deposit returns.
I've also carefully listened to the call recording of the discussion when Halifax rang Mr T to 
discuss his complaint. Even though this is some years after the initial investment, I think it 
gives a useful insight into Mr and Mrs Ts likely wishes at the time. Mr T told Halifax that as 
he was dealing with a building society he .. thought it was a safe plan. To my mind, that 
suggests Mr T had always understood he was making an investment (as opposed to simply 
leaving the £10,357 on deposit) and this was in line with his stated needs and objectives and 
his preferred course of action. 
In terms of risk, I think a more cautious investment strategy wouldve been suitable for 
Mr and Mrs T. I think it's fair to say Mr and Mrs T had some limited investment experience 
and it wasnt unreasonable for the CMC to have suggested that an investment of this 
percentage of their available investment pot would not have been unsuitable, especially if it 
was spread over products at a cautious level of risk.
I dont think there was anything else about Mr and Mrs Ts financial situation or 
circumstances which meant investing £10,357 into cautious products which met their 
investment needs and objectives was unsuitable when they would still have been left with a 
cash reserve which could sustain many years of their total outgoings.  
So this leads me to conclude that the redress calculations Halifax provided are based on the 
wrong formula. Halifax compared what happened with the investment against what wouldve 
happened had Mr and Mrs T not invested at all. 
I think the appropriate benchmark here is to compare what Mr and Mrs T actually earned 
with what they would have earned had they invested the £10,357 in funds where there was a 
small element of investment risk. 
So, I uphold the complaint.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr and Mrs T had nothing further to add. 
Halifax reiterated the following points for reconsideration:
Mr and Mrs T had some limited investment experience ie. PEP for 6K each and a 
Bond taken out in 1993. The CMC commented the customers circumstances had 
dramatically changed over the period, they were deep into retirement and on a very 
low income.Withdrawals in 2009 were to buy a car and capital purchase  which indicates that 
they had been left with insufficient funds on deposit to fund their lifestyle.
We concluded the customers already had a reasonable amount of their assets at risk 
(44%) and it was unnecessary to advise them to increase this any further given their 
personal and financial circumstances. Additionally Mr T told our Complaint manager 
on the telephone that he thought his money would be safe and didnt read any small 
print about risk.
In 2003 the fund category was noted as cautious-medium  the Financial 
Ombudsman Service has always stated it is not for your service to risk rate funds.
the CMC first contacted Halifax in 2018 for information about Mr and Mrs Ts 
investments  which it provided. The CMC raised further queries in 2020 and 
complained in 2021  it is questionable why they waited this length of time to do so.
As both parties have now commented, I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my 
review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. 
Id like to assure Halifax that I've thought carefully about everything again before coming to 
my final decision. 
Halifax previously provided its consent for us to look at this complaint and I am satisfied that 
the complaint is within jurisdiction. I dont consider that the withdrawals made in 2009, some 
six years after Mr and Mrs T invested in the PIP, are sufficient to show that any investment in 
2003 was unsuitable for them. For all the reasons set out more fully in my provisional 
decision, I still think Mr and Mrs T were in a position to be able to invest £10,357, but a more 
cautious investment strategy than investing in a fund rated by Halifax as cautious-medium 
would have been suitable for Mr and Mrs T. This leads me to conclude that the fairest 
benchmark here is to compare what Mr and Mrs T actually earned with what they would 
have earned had they invested the £10,357 in funds where there was a small element of 
investment risk.
I appreciate that Halifax takes a different view to me but Halifax hasnt provided me with any 
new information that changes what I think about this case. I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr and Mrs T as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice.I take the view that Mr and Mrs T would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. 
But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs Ts 
circumstances and objectives when they invested.
To compensate Mr and Mrs T fairly, Halifax must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs T's investment with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, 
no compensation is payable.
Halifax should also pay interest as set out below.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Personal 
Investment 
PlanNot 
knownDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the
date of 
settlementFor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; 
for the other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bonds
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Halifax 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. 
The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates 
should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
    Mr and Mrs T wanted Capital growth with a small risk to their capital.The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of 
diversified indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to 
take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr and Mrs T's risk profile was in between, in the sense that 
they were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment 
objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs T into 
that position. It does not mean that Mr and Mrs T would have invested 50% of 
their money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. 
Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Mr and Mrs T could have obtained from investments suited to their 
objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay compensation 
to Mr and Mrs T as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman