DRN-2121274
The complaint
Miss L has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy about 
the way they handled a claim against her motor insurance policy, or the liability decision 
reached. 
Reference to Admiral include their agents. 
What happened
Miss L is being represented by Mr D. To keep things simple, Ill refer to them both as Miss 
L. 
Miss L was unfortunately involved in an incident with a third-party in June 2019, with damage 
caused to both cars. She said that it wasnt her fault. Admiral contacted the third-party 
insurer in July 2019 to explain whatd happened and that it intended to hold the third-party 
responsible. 
Miss L contacted Admiral for updates in July and August 2019. She said she had photos of 
the damage caused to her car and wanted to provide these to further support that the third-
party was responsible. She sent these but Admiral had issues receiving them which caused 
delays. 
Miss L contacted Admiral again in September 2019 to get an update. Admiral said they 
explained that liability could be split 50/50 due to the lack of evidence available. Miss L 
wasnt happy about this. She showed Admiral the damage and tyre marks on her car in the 
photos she sent them. She thought this strengthened her argument that the third-party was 
responsible. So, Admiral wrote to the third-party insurer with this information in September 
2019, in attempt to settle the claim in full against them. 
In October and November 2019, they were still waiting on the response from the third-party 
insurer about the liability dispute. Miss L had to chase for updates during this time and was 
paying an increased insurance premium as the claim was still open. 
When the third-party insurer did respond in December 2019, they said the third-party had 
given a conflicting version of events to what Miss L told Admiral. So, they said a 50/50 
liability split would be the fairest way to resolve the matter, which Admiral agreed to. 
Admiral said they did this because of the lack of evidence available to challenge the position 
in court. For example, there was no CCTV, dashcam footage or independent witnesses to 
support what either party were saying. They also didnt think the photos of the damage was 
enough to dispute the liability decision in court. 
Miss L complained about this. She maintained the third-party was responsible, and the 
photos of the damage and the tyre marks proved this. She was also dissatisfied with 
Admirals handling of the claim. She said they failed to manage her expectations, keep her 
updated and communication was poor. 
Admiral agreed they didnt handle the claim well, so they paid Miss L £200 compensation 
and £20 to cover the costs of the calls she had to make. But they maintained the decision to 
split liability 50/50 was fair. So, Miss L brought a complaint to this service. 
An investigator here looked into things. He felt Admiral reached a fair decision on the liability 
dispute based on the information they had. Though he accepted there were failings caused 
by Admiral during the claims handling process. But he felt £220 in compensation and call 
costs was enough to put matters right. So, he didnt think Admiral should do anything else. 
Miss L didnt agree. She maintained Admiral didnt carry out a reasonable investigation into 
the liability dispute, which has resulted in higher premiums, losing part of her excess and 
losing her no claims discount. So, Ive been asked to decide the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Miss L is aware of this, but its important for me to say its not this services role to 
decide who was at fault, as that is a matter for the courts. We can only consider whether a 
business has acted in line with the policy terms, and whether they reached their decision in a 
fair and reasonable way. 
Liability decision 
My starting point here is Miss Ls motor insurance policy. This covers her for, amongst other 
things, damage caused to her car. The policy sets out the claims procedure, which says: 
We are entitled to: 
Conduct the defence or settlement of any claim on Your behalf 
This means Admiral doesnt need a policyholders prior approval of any decision to admit 
liability, settle a claim or make a payment to a third-party. Admiral also isnt required to take 
a case to court even if the policyholder thinks they should do so. Theyre entitled to consider 
all the evidence and the economics of proceeding to court and all likelihood of success.  
I can see Miss Ls concern here is the version of events given by the third-party, and she 
feels Admiral shouldve done more to challenge the third-party insurer on this. Ive given this 
careful thought, and I can see there are two conflicting versions of events here. Miss L said 
the third-party collided with her, whilst the third-party disputed this. The third-party also said 
a conversation took place where Miss L said she mightve come over into the other lane. 
In the absence of further evidence, such as CCTV and independent witnesses, Admiral took 
the decision to split liability given they didnt think the information they had was strong 
enough to successfully challenge the dispute in court. 
Miss L said Admiral shouldve obtained the third-partys written testimony so it could be 
considered further. Like our investigator, I can understand why Miss L said this. But Ive 
seen communication between Admiral and the third-party insurer, which in my view clearly 
shows conflicting opinions about what happened. Admiral considered this along with the 
other factors Ive mentioned above and decided to settle the dispute with a 50/50 liability 
split.   
Miss L thought the photos of the damage to her car with the tyre marks was enough to demonstrate the third-party was responsible. I can see Miss L feels strongly about this. 
Admiral did consider this and put it to the third-party insurer in attempt to settle the liability 
dispute. But the third-party insurer maintained there were two conflicting versions of events.  
Admiral didnt think this was strong enough evidence to succeed had theyve taken the 
matter to court. The policy entitles them to make this decision, so I dont think they acted 
unfairly by doing this.  
The liability dispute did take some time to be settled. Miss L said this resulted in her paying 
higher insurance premiums and temporarily losing her no claims discount. Its common 
practice for an open claim to be recorded as a fault claim even if the policyholder wasnt at 
fault  or doesnt think they were at fault. So, I dont think she paid higher premiums or lost 
her no claims discount as a result of an error made here by Admiral. 
Based on everything Ive seen, with the policy term cited above in mind, I dont think Admiral 
acted unfairly here by deciding to split liability 50/50. Where theres a coming together of two 
vehicles, with conflicting statements and no independent evidence, its very often the case 
that liability is split. This isnt the same as saying both were at fault, rather it means there 
isnt enough evidence to entirely blame one party over the other. 
It follows that I dont require Admiral to do anything here as part of the liability decision, or 
reinstatement of Miss Ls no claims discount. 
Overall complaint handling
Although matters can take some time when liability is in dispute  which happened here  I 
dont think Admirals overall claims handling was reasonable. 
There were several unreasonable delays caused here. Ive seen Miss L was left to chase for 
updates, rather than receiving pro-active contact from Admiral  something I can see they 
intended to do based on the claim notes but didnt. I also think they couldve managed her 
expectations better by being clearer about the possibilities of the outcome of the liability 
dispute. I can see Miss L was told they wouldnt accept a split liability decision and would 
approach their solicitors to progress things which didnt happen. They then went onto decide 
to split liability which I can appreciate wouldve frustrated Miss L. 
There were also examples of communication issues with Miss L being asked to make 
contact to answer further questions in error. 
Admiral wrote to Miss L in January 2020. They paid her £200 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience the claims handling issues caused. They also accepted she had to make 
several calls to chase for updates, so they paid her £20 for call costs. 
Overall, I think Admiral couldve handled things better here for the reasons set out above. 
Whilst naturally there can be delays where liability is being disputed, I think they couldve 
done more to give Miss L a much better experience during the process. 
Ive gone onto consider whether I think the compensation amount is fair and reasonable. 
And having done so, I think £200 compensation and £20 for call costs is enough to put 
matters right here based on what Ive seen. Admirals accepted they caused further issues 
but I think theyve put matters right by paying Miss L a reasonable amount of compensation. 
So, I dont require them to do anything else here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman