DRN-1747759
 
The complaint
Mrs D says Nationwide Building Society (trading as Portman Building Society) mis-sold her a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
For convenience, Ill just refer to Nationwide in this decision.
What happened
In 1992, Mrs D applied for a mortgage with Nationwide. Its unclear exactly when, but 
Nationwide also sold her PPI to designed to protect her monthly repayments if she couldnt 
work because of disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs D didnt agree, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ds case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive carefully considered Mrs Ds comments about the choices she was, or wasnt, given 
during the sale. But Im mindful that the PPI was likely sold nearly 30 years ago  in my view 
making it less likely shed be able to accurately recall any discussions that might have taken 
place at the time.
Neither partys been able to provide much by way of paperwork from the sale. And thats not 
surprising considering how much times passed both since then and since the mortgage 
ended and the PPI was cancelled.
I understand Mrs Ds frustration at the lack of evidence supporting Nationwides position. 
But, equally, there just isnt enough evidence to support what Mrs D says either. In the 
absence of any persuasive evidence to show otherwise, I see no reason to consider that 
Mrs D wasnt aware that the PPI wasnt a compulsory part of the mortgage or that she didnt 
choose to take it out knowing it was optional.
From experience of how it sold PPI generally, and from the available information, I dont 
consider it likely that Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mrs D. That still meant 
Nationwide had to give her clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI, so that 
she could make a properly informed choice about whether to take it.
There might have been areas in which Nationwide didnt give Mrs D the information it should 
have done. But that, in itself, isnt enough for me to uphold the complaint. Id also need to find that any failings made a difference to her decision to take the PPI. Taking into account 
Mrs Ds circumstances, I dont think better information would have put her off taking out the 
PPI. 
I say that because, for example, it seems Mrs D would have been eligible for the PPI. And it 
doesnt look as though shed have been significantly affected by its main exclusions or 
limitations such as those relating to pre-existing medical conditions. Ive carefully considered 
the medical information Mrs Ds provided but I dont consider there to be anything about her 
health, on balance, that would have put her off the PPI.
Mrs D was entitled to full sick pay for a time and redundancy pay. But the PPI benefits would 
have been paid on top of that and for up to 12 months per claim. If she had any other means 
available to her the PPI would have allowed her to retain them or use those means towards 
covering her other living costs if she wasnt working. 
Mrs D says she could have relied on her family for help is she needed it. But there was no 
guarantee her family would be in a position to offer assistance when it was needed most. 
The PPI benefits, on the other hand, were guaranteed.
Overall, I think Mrs D would have found the extra security the PPI provided to be useful, 
especially as it helped protect borrowing secured against her home.
Finally, I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs D would have found the PPI premium 
unaffordable. And it was flexible in that, if Mrs D had decided she didnt want the PPI 
anymore, she could have cancelled it at any time and at no extra cost.
While Mrs D says she was mis-sold other insurance policies, that doesnt mean this PPI was 
also mis-sold. Taking everything into account regarding the PPI sale, I dont believe Mrs Ds 
lost out. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman