DRN-3701134
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society refused to refund money he lost to an 
investment scam. 
What happened
In 2016, Mr A met a broker online who persuaded him to invest into a company called SW1 
Options. He was provided with a dedicated account manager and from October 2016 to July 
2017 made 13 bank transfer payments totalling £96,185.40 towards his investment with 
them. He understood the investment was supposed to end on 1 February 2019. When he 
didnt receive any funds, he complained but was still unable to withdraw his funds. 
In April 2019, Mr A tried to submit a chargeback dispute to Nationwide and he didnt receive 
any reply, so he referred his complaint to this office. 
Nationwide issued its final response on 22 November 2019. It noted Mr A had been in touch 
with it in August 2018 about another potential scam but hadnt raised concerns about his 
payments to SW1 Options. Nationwide said it was unable to refund Mr As payments. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr As complaint. She thought Nationwide should have 
intervened when Mr A sent some of his payments as they were unusual, but she didnt think 
a warning would have made a difference. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for review. He 
said in summary that in accordance with regulator rules, good practice and the law, 
Nationwide ought to have done more to prevent him falling victim to a scam. Mr A also said 
in the early stages of his investment payments, he checked with Nationwide Branch staff that 
SW1 Options was legitimate and they confirmed they were. 
The complaint has been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr As complaint for largely the same reasons our 
Investigator explained. 
Not every complaint referred to us as an investment scam is in fact a scam. Some cases 
simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in very disappointing returns or losses. 
Some investment companies may have promoted products  which were not regulated by 
the FCAusing sales methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, 
whilst customers who lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as 
fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, 
i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the 
intention of making a gain for himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the 
risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains 
or give investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
constitute unauthorised investment advice. So, the first question to resolve is whether SW1 
Options was actually a scam.
Im satisfied they were scammers, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published a 
warning about them on 21 March 2018. 
Could Nationwide have done more to recover the loss?
Ive noted when Mr A reported the matter to Nationwide in April 2019, hed requested for 
Nationwide to process chargeback claims for him. However, chargeback wasnt an option for 
Mr A as he made bank transfer payments and chargeback is only applicable to card 
payments.  
Ive not seen that Nationwide attempted to recover the payments that Mr A had disputed. 
I dont think Nationwides failure makes a material difference to its likelihood of being able to 
recover Mr As payments. Mr A didnt report the scam until over two years had passed. In the 
majority of cases, the funds are moved on in a very short space of time, so I think its unlikely 
that any funds would have been available had Nationwide attempted to recover Mr As 
disputed payments. It follows that I dont think that Nationwide could have recovered Mr As 
losses.
Could Nationwide have done more to prevent the losses?
It is common ground that Mr A authorised the scam payments in question here. I accept that 
these were authorised payments even though Mr A was the victim of a scam. So, although 
he did not know he was being scammed, under the Payment Services Regulations and the 
terms and conditions of the account, Mr A is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Nationwide should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Mr A has explained the various regulations and guidance he feels should be taken into 
account and I want to reassure him Ive read his comments and taken into account the 
relevant rules and guidance when considering Nationwides obligations outlined above.Ive considered here whether I think any of the payments made to SW1 Options were so 
unusual, suspicious or out of character that I think Nationwide ought to have intervened and 
carried out further checks. 
Mr A has indicated that when he made some of his early payments, he was reassured by 
Nationwides branch staff that SW1 Options were legitimate. Theres no evidence to support 
Mr As submission and Ive noted that hes only raised this recently, so Im not persuaded Mr 
A was given the reassurance he alleges. However, I do think that Nationwide had obligations 
to protect Mr A from falling victim to a possible fraud or scam. 
Nationwide has to strike a balance between taking steps to prevent fraud and unreasonably 
interfering with an individuals account to the extent it delays or prevents legitimate 
payments. I wouldnt expect it to check every transaction or carry out further checks every 
time a transaction is slightly higher than usual. 
Ive noted that Mr A hasnt been as forthcoming with this office about his dealings with SW1 
Options, despite our Investigator asking questions about this. So Ive had to take this into 
account when deciding whether a warning from Nationwide could have prevented Mr A from 
falling victim to a scam. 
I dont think Mr As initial payment to SW1 Options on 31 October 2016 for £5,500 was all 
that unusual when considering the normal operation of his account. Hed recently paid a 
cheque for around £5,000, so that amount doesnt stand out as unusual. 
The subsequent payment of £9,000 on 29 November 2016 was unusual. I think this 
particular payment was larger than the payments that Mr A had made in the months leading 
up to it. I think Nationwide ought to have intervened and spoken with Mr A to satisfy itself 
that all was well. But I dont think this would have led Mr A to doing anything differently and 
Ill explain why.
Mr A hasnt been clear, when questioned by our Investigator, how he came across SW1 
Options, what he understood the investment was and what he thought he was investing in. 
Mr A also said he didnt receive much paperwork from SW1 Options, just a few emails. 
However, Mr A also referred a complaint about a different banking provider to this office 
which involved the same scam. Ive noted some of those payments were made before Mr A 
instructed payments from his Nationwide account. Mr A told one of our Investigators that he 
was approached by SW1 Options with a lot of care, reassurance and a lot of legitimate 
paperwork showing projections and providing guarantees. This isnt what Mr A told our 
Investigator dealing with his Nationwide complaint.  
I dont think Mr As testimony has been consistent and it still is unclear what Mr A was 
specifically promised and what his arrangements with SW1 Options were. This is despite 
multiple questions from our Investigator trying to obtain this information. So whilst Im 
minded to agree that Nationwide ought to have asked further questions at the time of Mr As 
payment of 29 November 2016, I think, on balance, he would have told it that he was making 
an investment with a company hes previously invested with and was satisfied it was 
legitimate. There was no adverse information about SW1 Options at the time of Mr As 
payments to them. And there isnt anything in Mr As testimony to us that should suggest that 
Nationwide ought to have been on higher alert because of the type of investment Mr A was 
making and thats because Mr A hasnt been clear about what that was. 
I note Mr A also says he paid a third-party recovery company £8,000 between 4 May 2017 to 
2 August 2017. Mr A told Nationwide that this company contacted him to help recover his 
funds from a previous investment (SW1 Options). But Mr A continued to pay SW1 Options whilst he paid the third-party recovery company. Mr A further told our Investigator that he 
didnt have concerns about SW1 Options or the third-party recovery company until 2019 as 
he didnt expect to receive a pay-out on his investment until February 2019. But this isnt 
what the evidence shows me as Mr A raised specific concerns about the third-party debt 
recovery company with Nationwide in August 2018, not 2019. Its unclear why Mr A didnt 
report his SW1 Options payments at this time but I can only assume he had no concerns 
about them at this time. Having said that, I find Mr As account of events to be inconsistent 
and therefore, I cannot safely determine, on balance, that a meaningful warning from 
Nationwide would have made a difference to his decision to pay SW1 Options. 
As Mr A had already made payments to SW1 Options prior to his Nationwide payments, I 
think if Nationwide had asked further questions in November 2016, it would have satisfied 
itself that all was well and that Mr A was investing with a company he had an existing 
relationship with. Mr A continued to make payments to SW1 Options until July 2017. Whilst 
he made larger payments to them in particular months (December 2016 and June 2017) by 
these points, this was an established payee for Mr A and hed not raised any concerns about 
them, so I dont think Nationwide acted unreasonably by processing further payments 
without question. And even if further payments were flagged, Mr A would likely have 
explained he had an existing relationship with SW1 Options and made multiple payments to 
them over a period of months.  
I empathise with Mr As significant losses and that he was the victim of such a cruel scam. 
But I dont think Nationwide missed an opportunity to prevent the payments he made to 
scammers, so I dont think it should reasonably refund the payments he lost.
My final decision
My final decision is despite my natural sympathies for Mr As losses, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman