DRN-2370635
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2003. Mr and Mrs L paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them in case either 
of them was off work sick or lost their job.
I sent Mr and Mrs L and Yorkshire a provisional decision on 7 October 2020, to explain 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, Ive not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Because of the time thats passed, neither side have been able to provide the original 
documents from the sale. But Yorkshire has given me sample copies of the leaflet and 
application Mr and Mrs L wouldve seen at the time of their sale. From those, it looks like the 
PPI was an optional extra, and not part and parcel of the mortgage. In order to get the policy, 
Mr and Mrs L wouldve needed to sign and submit a specific application for PPI  separately 
to applying for the mortgage itself. And Ive not seen any wider problems with Yorkshires 
sale process from the time, nor any evidence which shows that it misled Mr or Mrs L in this 
particular case. So I think its most likely that Yorkshire made Mr and Mrs L aware they had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Its not clear whether Yorkshire recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Yorkshire if it did recommend the PPI  so to be fair to Mr and 
Mrs L, Ive assumed it did. That means Yorkshire had to check the policy was right for them 
 and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, 
it looks like Mr and Mrs L were eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr and Mrs Ls work benefits and covered them for far 
longer, giving them much more comprehensive cover than what they already had. Its worth 
bearing in mind that if Mr and Mrs L had fallen behind on their mortgage, they couldve lost 
their home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful for them in protecting their 
home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Yorkshire gave Mr and Mrs L about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr and Mrs L werent affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs L could cancel it 
at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs L paid on their policy  and whether 
Yorkshire treated them unfairly. 
Yorkshire has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ls policy was less than half of 
what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Yorkshire has been working this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ls commission was less 
than half the cost of the policy. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about 
the commission  so I dont think Yorkshire treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need 
to pay Mr and Mrs L back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
In response to that provisional decision, Mr and Mrs L didnt add anything further. But 
Yorkshire responded with an offer to refund some of the commission and profit share on 
the policy, clarifying that its previous position was mistaken. So I sent a further provisional 
decision on 5 November 2020, where I said the following:
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments about the sale of the PPI. So 
having reconsidered that matter, I still have not found that it was mis-sold.
This means Yorkshire does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Yorkshire has now offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L, 
because:
Yorkshire got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because Yorkshire didnt tell 
them, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Yorkshire has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
19 November 2020. But neither Mr and Mrs L nor Yorkshire sent me anything new to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not received any new arguments or evidence from either side. So having reconsidered 
the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as my last provisional decision  that Yorkshire 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI, but should pay back some of the cost.What the business should do
Yorkshire should pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. That means Yorkshire should pay back to Mr and Mrs L 
the extra they paid each month because the commission and profit share it got was more 
than 50% of the cost of PPI. Yorkshire should also pay Mr and Mrs L 8%* simple interest on 
each payment, to compensate them for the time they were out of pocket.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs L can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy was not mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman