DRN-4003915
The complaint
Mr S complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited declined to pay his claim on his 
motor insurance policy after his car was stolen. He wants Haven to pay for the loss of his 
car. 
What happened
Mr S took out a motor insurance policy with Haven through an online comparison site for a 
car he was buying from a friend. They had an agreement that the V5 registration document 
would be put in Mr Ss name when he had paid all the instalments. When the car was stolen, 
Mr S tried to make a claim on his policy. But Haven declined to pay it as it said Mr S wasnt 
the cars owner and registered keeper and had no insurable interest in it. 
Haven also said Mr S had answered the question it asked about the cars ownership 
incorrectly. And it considered this to be a reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which 
entitled it to cancel the policy, decline his claim and retain his premiums.
Mr S brought his complaint to us, and our Investigator thought it should be upheld. He 
thought the question asked by Haven on the comparison site Mr S used about the cars 
ownership wasnt clear. He thought Mr S had answered this to the best of his ability. And so 
he thought it was unfair and unreasonable for Haven to decline his claim. He thought it 
should consider Mr Ss claim and pay him £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Haven doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It 
said the risk was unacceptable to it. It was prepared to refund Mr Ss premiums, but it 
declined to consider his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Haven declined Mr Ss claim because it said he had misrepresented who owned the car he 
was insuring. The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Haven thinks Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
said he was the cars owner and registered keeper. But the V5 registration document was in 
his friends name as he hadnt completed paying the instalments to buy the car from him in 
keeping with their written agreement
Ive looked at the question Haven asked Mr S on the comparison site he used:
Are you the owner and registered keeper of the car (or will you be)?
I think this question is unclear as it is open to interpretation. The guidance notes dont help 
as they dont explain what is meant by will you be. Mr S answered Yes. And I think Mr S 
answered the question to the best of his ability as he was in the process of buying his car 
and had paid a large amount towards the purchase. 
Im satisfied that, in Mr Ss particular circumstances, he met the requirement of will you be 
the cars owner and registered keeper. So I think he took reasonable care to answer the 
question and Im satisfied that Mr S didnt make a misrepresentation. And therefore I think 
the actions taken by Haven are unfair and not in keeping with CIDRA. 
As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think not 
allowing Haven to rely on it to cancel Mr Ss policy and decline his claim produces the fair 
and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
Haven also said Mr S didnt have an insurable interest in the car as the V5 wasnt in his 
name. But Mr S has provided evidence of the agreement he had with his friend and the 
amounts he has paid towards the cars cost. I can see that he had paid for over half the cars 
cost. So I think it was unfair and unreasonable for Haven to say that Mr S didnt have an 
insurable interest in the car. 
Havens decision to repudiate Mr Ss claim has caused him trouble and upset. Our 
Investigator recommended that Haven should pay him £100 compensation for this. I think 
thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance. 
Putting things right
I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Reconsider Mr Ss claim in keeping with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
2. Pay Mr S £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by it rejecting 
the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Haven Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman