DRN-3754550
The complaint
Miss A brings this complaint on behalf of her late fathers estate. 
Miss A complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt provide her with payee details for a 
transaction which was made on her late fathers account. 
What happened
Miss A says she is trying to unravel her late fathers financial affairs. She says in August 
2017 her father made a large transfer from his Santander account to one of his bank 
accounts held with another provider. I will call the receiving bank H for ease of reference. 
Miss A asked Santander to provide her with full details of the account the payment was 
made to. 
Miss A says she provided Santander with her identification and a copy of her fathers death 
certificate. But Santander only told her the sort code and the name of the receiving bank. 
She says it wouldnt provide the account number. 
Santander said it wasnt able to provide the account number due to data protection. Miss A 
says shes contacted H who told her they cant locate the account using the name, sort code, 
and date of birth. Miss A wants Santander to provide the account number so she can find the 
account her father held with H. And so she complained. 
Santander said it was unable to provide Miss A with any further information than it already 
had since it is not able to view the information held by the receiving bank. And since it isnt 
able to definitively confirm who the receiving account belongs to it is unable to provide Miss 
A with the account number due to data protection. Santander said since no error was made 
it wouldnt be able to uphold Miss As complaint. 
Miss A wasnt happy with Santanders response so she referred her complaint to this 
service. The investigator looked into things for her. He said since Santander were unable to 
see the information held by H it couldnt confirm that the account held by them belonged to 
Miss As father. And due to data protection law the bank was unable to provide any 
additional information to Miss A and so he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss A didnt agree with the investigators outcome and so the complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure Miss A that Ive carefully considered everything she has sent to us. 
But I wont be responding in similar detail. If I dont comment on a point Miss A has made, or 
a piece of evidence shes provided, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues. 
I am aware Miss A doesnt believe Santander has done all it can to assist her. And she is 
concerned H will keep her fathers money if she isnt able to locate the account. I think its 
important to say the financial business can never claim a customers money for itself. 
I know Miss A feels strongly about this matter and I understand why. But I dont think 
Santander has acted unreasonably or unfairly here. 
There isnt very much evidence in this case. This is due to the fact Mr A passed away and so 
both Santander and H have to consider what information they are allowed to provide. In the 
circumstances I was pleased to see Santander tried to assist where it could. 
I understand Miss A expects Santander to provide her with more detail regarding the 
receiving account held with H; including the account number. Santander have explained that 
it is unable to provide Miss A with the account number because, although its likely the 
receiving account belonged to Mr A, it cant be sure this is the case. Santander cant see the 
account holders date of birth, or other information held by H which can confirm definitively 
that it belonged to Mr A. And in the absence of that confirmation it could breach data 
protection laws by giving Miss A the account number. It has also said due to the passage of 
time it is limited in what it can see. 
Miss A has said given the receiving account is in the same name its very likely the account 
belonged to her father. And I dont disagree. However that is not enough to discharge 
Santander of its legal obligation under data protection laws. And I think Santander has done 
what it can and given Miss A as much information as it is able to. 
Santander have told this service that Miss A completed an indemnity with the bank at the 
time her father passed away to confirm she was the next of kin and legal representative of 
the estate. It said since this was the case Miss A was entitled to receive information on her 
fathers account. However there was difficulty in finding that information as it dated back to 
2017, so it seems likely it would have been able to provide more information if less time had 
gone by.  And so I cant reasonably hold Santander responsible or say it has done 
something wrong. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Miss A was hoping for and I know this must be frustrating 
for her. Santander have provided all the information regarding the account that it is able to. 
And as such I cant ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman