DRN-4326751
The complaint
Mr S complained that inaccurate advice by Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) 
triggered the collapse of his house sale and led to financial consequences for him. Hastings 
were acting as broker to Mr S in the provision of his home insurance needs.
What happened
Mr S was planning to sell his UK home and move abroad with his family. He had found a 
prospective buyer, but the house sale was contingent on the ability of the buyer to have Mr 
S buildings insurance transferred to him. The buyer required this assurance as the property 
had some known issues of subsidence which were in the process of been remedied.
Mr S approached Hastings and asked if it was possible for his insurance to be transferred to 
his buyer. Mr S provided a letter from Hastings which confirmed it was. Following the 
assurance from Hastings, Mr S put down a non-refundable deposit on a property abroad. 
Apart from the buyers assurance, Mr C also needed the assurance from his broker before 
he entered a binding contract to buy his new house abroad, which he did based on the 
information received from Hastings.
Mr S said Hastings, later and after he and his buyer had put every arrangement in place, 
reversed its position on the transfer of insurance and went further in saying no guarantees 
could be provided that the new buyer could gain insurance on the property. 
Mr S said this news caused his buyer to pull out of the agreed sale and caused himself 
considerable financial consequences. He said it had an enormous impact on the well-being 
of his family. Mr S said the inaccurate advice has led to him: paying costs of a bridging loan 
to buy his house abroad; loss by a reduced selling price due to needing to accelerate a sale; 
and potential future capital gains tax liability. 
Hastings initially said it couldnt find evidence that it had advised Mr S his insurance could be 
transferred to a new buyer. However, after intervention by our investigator, Hastings said 
we contacted the underwriter of the policy to see if the insurance could be transferred if the 
property were to be sold. [The insurer] informed us they would cover the risk however a new 
policy would need to be set up in the new buyers name and for [the insurer] to be contacted 
to override a decline for the new quotation. Unfortunately, this was taken out of context, and 
we sent a letter to Mr S stating the insurance could be transferred without detailing the 
specific instructions detailed by [the insurer]. 
Hastings said it is clear we have mismanaged the guidance provided by [the insurer] and 
caused significant trouble and upset to Mr S. Our original response detailed we could not 
find any evidence of mis-information about transferring the policy, this is obviously incorrect 
and therefore a change in outcome is merited. Hastings apologised and offered £250 for the 
poor service provided.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He didnt think the compensation Hastings 
offered reasonably covered Mr S for the distress and inconvenience he suffered, so he 
increased this by £350 (to £600). However, he didnt think Hastings needed to cover Mr S 
financial losses as he didnt think the loss was solely due to Hastings actions. Both Mr S and 
Hastings disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I made a provisional decision on this on 28 June 2023. I said:
Mr S said the incorrect advice from Hastings led to the sequence of events, so Ive reviewed 
what Hastings said to Mr S in a brief letter. It said just to confirm, we have spoken to your 
underwriter, and they are happy to transfer this policy over to a new customer. If you could 
please call us as soon as you have a buyer, and we will look to make the changes 
necessary. Hastings didnt stipulate any conditions or other factors that might stop the 
transfer taking place. To Mr S the impression given by Hastings was that everything was 
going according to plan.
The letter was signed by the Operations Director of Hastings. When Mr S received the letter 
I think it was reasonable for him to rely on the contents of the letter, given it had been sent 
by a senior authority from within Hastings. It seems the letter was a follow-up to a verbal 
confirmation, as the letter started just to confirm. I think the letter is clear. It says the 
underwriter is happy to transfer this policy  I think it was reasonable for Mr S to think this 
was his policy, as his policy number is stated at the top of the letter. The letter states the 
policy can be transferred to a new customer. As Mr S had been in contact with Hastings 
about a buyer purchasing his property, I think he was reasonable to believe his policy could 
be transferred to the new buyer and that Mr S could go ahead with his arrangement to get 
into a binding contract to buy his property abroad and therefore committing him to the move. 
Later, Hastings did admit to providing mis-information. This led it to offering £250 
compensation, so I have considered whether I think this was a fair compensation offer in the 
circumstances of this complaint and put Mr S back in the position he was in pre-loss.
Hastings said Mr S buyer contacted it. Hastings attempted to change the policy into the 
buyers name. Hastings said it systems wouldnt allow it to make the change. Hastings said it 
advised the buyer to approach the insurer direct. However, Mr S said when the buyer 
approached the insurer direct he couldnt transfer the policy or take out insurance direct. Mr 
S approached a different insurer, and he was told its unlikely any insurer would take on new 
insurance for a different customer so close to having work carried out on subsidence.
Despite Hastings being fully aware of the arrangements in place it didnt take on board 
dealing with the issues when its system failed. It knew that the deal to buy the house was 
based on the transfer arrangements it had already confirmed to Mr S would go ahead. So, 
even though its system wouldnt let it conclude the transaction I think it could have done 
more on behalf of Mr S and his new purchaser to contact the insurer and make the 
arrangements to transfer the cover. I dont think the new purchaser could be expected to 
know who to contact or what to say. But Hastings had agreed documentation, it had a record 
of the discussion, it had the contact details and it could easily have gathered those from the 
new purchaser and provided them to the insurer to follow through on its promise that the 
policy could be easily transferred. Under the Association of British Insurers (ABI) guidelines 
the current insurer wouldve been obliged to take responsibility for continuing cover on the 
property. And I have no reason to doubt it wouldnt have, had Hastings facilitated it.
Hastings now said there was no guarantee that a new owner would be quoted by the 
existing insurer. It further explained, these would be completely new details and the existing 
insurers acceptance criteria, so even if the process was completed correctly there would be 
no guarantee of cover. However, I dont think the advice provided in writing by Hastings 
Operations Director was correct as the buyer wasnt able to transfer the insurance or couldnt get new insurance on the property. This was contrary to what the Operations 
Director had advised in the letter she sent. 
Mr S said when the buyer became aware he couldnt get insurance on the property, he 
pulled out of the sale, which led to difficult financial consequences for Mr S. Mr S thinks 
these difficulties were caused by the incorrect advice from the broker.
However, Hastings has said its advice wasnt the main cause of Mr S financial difficulties. It 
said we have not received any evidence that the sale of his property was dependant on the 
transference of Mr S home insurance. Hastings said subsidence is notorious for making 
things difficult (in terms of selling and covering insurance wise) and Hastings did not cause 
the subsidence in the property.
However, the key for me is that Mr S only put down a deposit on his new property (a 
requirement in that jurisdiction) after receiving confirmation from Hastings Operations 
Director stating his insurance policy could be transferred directly to his buyer. Mr S has 
consistently said his sale to the specific buyer was dependent on this transfer.
Mr S has shared an email which was sent by the prospective buyer that shows they were 
hopeful the sale could be finalised that week. He has also shared an email from the buyers 
agent wanting certainty over the insurance arrangements.
The letter sent by Hastings was incorrect and the prospective buyer couldnt get the 
insurance cover he thought he was going to get. I think its clear this led to the buyer pulling 
out.
What is clear in my mind is that this sequence of events has led to Mr S being put in a 
difficult financial predicament. Facing the prospect of losing his significant deposit, he felt the 
less bad option was taking out a bridging loan. Now owning two properties, he faces 
potential capital gains tax when he does sell this house as its not now his main residence. 
He wouldnt have faced any such potential costs if the transfer of insurance cover had 
continued, and the sale gone through on the property when it was his main home.
This outcome, I feel was triggered by the incorrect advice provided by Hastings Operations 
Director. Therefore, I dont think Hastings offer of compensation (£250) sufficiently puts Mr S 
back in the position he wouldve been in had the error not occurred. Therefore, I intend to 
uphold this complaint.
Mr S has tried to mitigate his losses. Hes explained how hed accepted lower bids on his 
property to accelerate the process. Hes been a distressed seller. However, unfortunately 
due to concerns over the lack of continuity of the insurer these potential later sales also fell 
through. Mr S explained the changing of an insurer on a house with subsidence is against 
market convention and was therefore a warning sign to new buyers. Mr S thinks Hastings 
wouldve been able to ensure continuity of the underwriter if it had given the matter its due 
attention.
Given the inability of selling his home and the bridging loan costs he was paying, Mr S said 
he was facing insolvency so chose to rent out his UK property. He said the income matched 
what he was paying on his mortgage payments, but he was out of pocket for white goods he 
purchased to support the rental and for general upkeep costs. I think Mr S has done as 
much as he could be expected to minimise the losses resulting from Hastings error. I can 
also see in parallel he worked with a specialist surveyor and a specialist insurer to get 
specific subsidence cover that has allowed him now to re-market his property for sale. Hes 
also incurred duplicate selling costs, having to find a buyer for the second time. I think its 
reasonable that Mr S is reimbursed these costs, as its a consequence of the first sale falling through due to Hastings error. I intend Hastings reimburse Mr S £1,236 for the survey costs 
(incl. asbestos survey) and £540 for the selling costs (on production of valid receipts).
Mr S has provided details of the costs hes incurred so Ive examined these carefully to 
decide what I think is a fair payment from Hastings to put Mr S back in the position he was in 
before the mistake.
I think Mr S has put a sensible mitigation in place by renting out his property. This was the 
most logical action in reducing the loss. I see the expiry of this tenancy agreement is on 22 
December 2023. I think this acts as a natural backstop by which to consider additional costs 
Mr S will incur, but Ill add two further months as contingency to allow for reasonable timing 
differences with the sale of the property or, to allow Mr S to decide whether to move forward 
with his UK property on a permanent rental basis in the medium term.
Therefore, I intend for Hastings to pay the interest costs Mr S has incurred (on production of 
valid receipts /evidence) for the bridging loan from inception to the date Mr S UK property is 
sold (or 14 February 2024 whichever is earlier). Mr S paid in the local currency which when 
converting to Sterling was an annual cost of £8,764. So, I intend Hastings pays £730 for 
each month the loan is outstanding. As Mr S has been without this money, I intend to add 
8% interest per annum (simple) from the date the bridging loan was taken out to the date 
Hastings reimburse Mr S. I intend for Hastings to reimburse the arrangement fee for the 
bridging loan - £119 (on production of a valid receipt).
Mr S has set out that he thinks he will lose money on his UK house sale as he will be a 
distressed seller. However, Mr S has explained that he now has subsidence cover and hes 
also had time to remedy any building faults with the property if he so chooses. Therefore, I 
dont see why Mr S wouldnt expect to receive market value for his property for the condition 
its in. So, I wont be asking Hastings to cover any perceived shortfall in sales proceeds if Mr 
S chooses to sell his property.
Its possible under current legislation that Mr S will need to pay capital gains tax on the sale 
of his property now that he owns a second property. Mr S has shared the tax rules that are 
applicable in his circumstances. Mr S never intended to own two houses, so he wouldnt 
have been liable for the capital gains tax on the sale of his home had Hastings not made the 
error. 
To put Mr S back in the position he wouldve been in, I intend Hastings to indemnify Mr S for 
any capital gains tax liability on the sale of his UK home (on production of valid evidence a 
tax charge has accrued). I think this indemnity period should last until 14 April 2024 (which is 
based on 60 days from 14 February 2024, which is the period in which UK law stipulates that 
Mr S would need to fulfil any tax requirements).
Mr S has provided a full calculation of the potential capital gains tax on his property based 
upon his circumstances. Hes assumed the house will sell for the same price the previous 
purchaser had bid. This seems reasonable. Hes also deducted nearly £90,000 of costs that 
hes spent on improving the property. So, I think Mr S has tried to do a fair calculation of the 
future liability. So, to create certainty, I intend Hastings pay the amount Mr S has calculated 
(£20,716), once Mr S has provided evidence to it that he has successfully sold his house 
with the indemnity period (i.e., before 14 February 2024).  I dont think its fair to expect 
Hastings to indemnify Mr S indefinitely for any other taxes he may incur, so I wouldnt expect 
Hastings to cover this potential tax charge if the sale happened after 14 February 2024.
I think its evident that Mr S has acted quickly to minimise the loss - he rented his house out 
at a lower price to make sure he was receiving some income to improve his financial 
predicament. Hes said the income he received on rent was the same as he was paying on mortgage payments. Normally, Id expect there to be a profit from renting out a property, but 
I think its reasonable one hasnt been made here. However, Mr S has incurred additional 
costs to get the property ready for rent. Given no profit has been made, I think its 
reasonable that Hastings covers these costs. Therefore, I intend Hastings to reimburse the 
cost of the washing machine Mr S has purchased for the property to facilitate the rental (on 
production of valid receipts).
Mr S has shared other costs he has incurred in either, preparing to sell his UK property, or 
for moving to his new property. Apart from the costs Ive already outlined, I think these costs 
wouldve either been needed to be paid anyway even without Hastings mistake or 
alternatively should be seen as an investment that enhanced the sale price of his property. 
Therefore, I dont think its reasonable that these costs are reimbursed.
Hastings offered Mr S £250 in compensation. I think moving house in any circumstances is 
an extremely stressful event. In Mr S position, I think the circumstances were more difficult  
he was moving a very young family abroad. Mr S sought support from family members to 
help with his financial needs due to the error Hastings made. Mr S has explained about the 
pressure he has felt from the difficult financial circumstances. I think the levels of stress 
wouldve been high and I dont think his broker did enough to help after making the mistake. 
I think this stress has been long lasting. The time Mr S has spent trying to manage this 
situation caused significant inconvenience. Therefore, I intend Hastings to compensate Mr S 
by a further £1,250 (thats £1,500 in total).
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S accepted my reasoning and remedies that I set out in my provisional decision. 
However, he felt his key point had been overlooked in the area which he feels he has 
suffered the greatest financial impact.
Mr S has explained that house prices have fallen since his original sale fell through because 
of Hastings error. He has shared evidence to show that the potential sale price now is lower 
than it wouldve been. He explained the housing market is depressed due to a severe 
change in the economic climate, with rising interest rates and inflationary pressures.
Mr S said the compensation in the provisional decision does not compensate me for this 
[drop in sale price], it only compensates me for the ancillary costs related to the retained 
ownership of the property. Hastings actions have forced us to sell our property in a different 
economic climate - this represents over 90% of the financial damages caused. By excluding 
this cost, I do not see how the provisional decision puts my family back in the financial 
position it was in before Hastings actions, which is the stated intention.
Mr S has asked to be indemnified for the financial loss he expects when he sells his house 
(for a lower price) when compared to the price he had agreed before Hastings error caused 
the sale to fall through. Mr S has said the costs involved in renting out his UK property have 
increased, and hed like to be reimbursed for this expense.
Mr S also reiterated the previous points that hed made.
Hastings didnt accept my provisional decision. It has re-highlighted the key facts supporting 
its opinion and provided a timeline to help explain its view. Hastings provided new evidence 
in the form of a recorded telephone call between itself and the prospective buyer when 
talking about insurance cover.
Hastings said Mr S put his deposit on the property overseas on 12 June 2022, despite not 
receiving an offer on the property until 21 June 2022. Hastings said, its not unreasonable to wait until the sale of the property had been officially completed before placing a deposit 
elsewhere. It said this placed an unnecessary deadline on Mr S having to sell his UK 
property.
Hastings said a structural survey had not been completed until 16 November 2022. Overall, 
there were still final repairs and reports to be completed before sale, regardless of the offer 
date [by the prospective buyer] and the date Mr S placed a deposit on his property 
[overseas].
Hastings said on a call with [the prospective buyer] on 25 October 2022 it ran a quote to 
provide cover but the buyer declined it. It said [the prospective buyer] stated she would not 
have placed an offer and would have pulled out of the sale at an earlier point if shed known 
about the second subsidence claim. With this in mind, Mr Ss assertion that the [prospective 
buyer] pulled out because we werent able to offer cover isnt true. We attempted to offer 
cover and [the prospective buyer] declined this, so she was able to get insurance on the 
property. As such, theres no evidence to suggest that [she] pulled out of the sale due to the 
lack of available cover. [She] pulled out of the sale due to the unknown subsidence history of 
the property, which is evidenced in the call provided.
My (second) provisional decision
Based on the new evidence provided, I changed my provision decision and issued a second 
provisional decision on 4 August 2023. I said:
In my provisional decision, I said the key point for me in reaching my decision was the 
evidence pointed towards the sale of Mr S property was dependent on the transfer of 
insurance from Mr S to the prospective buyer. When it was apparent the transfer of 
insurance wasnt possible, it seemed that was the principal cause of the sale of the UK 
property collapsing.
However, Hastings has provided new evidence in the form of a recorded call between itself 
and the prospective buyer that shows this wasnt the case. Ive listened to this call carefully 
and Im persuaded the prospective buyer wouldve pulled out of the sale even if the transfer 
of insurance couldve been arranged.
On this call the prospective buyer explained part of the reason she was looking to move was 
for a stress free and more economical existence. She explained that when she had 
discovered two claims of subsidence had been made on Mr S property this made her 
particularly unnerved as she was aware any further subsidence issues on the property could 
lead to it becoming uninsurable in the future or at best very expensive to insure or making it 
difficult for her to re-sell the property in the future. 
She said if she had known about the second subsidence claim on the property before, she 
wouldve pulled out of the sale earlier. She said she was also worried about a recent 
subsidence claim made at a neighbouring property  she thought there was every chance 
due to the nature of the soil conditions in the area the level of subsidence claims generally 
would increase significantly in the future, making it harder to get insurance at a reasonable 
price. She said this maybe even be the reason Mr S had chosen to put his property on the 
market.
The call makes compelling listening  the prospective buyer thought that buying Mr S home 
wouldnt give her the stress free and more economical existence she strived for. She said 
she wouldnt want to go to bed each night thinking about what could go wrong.
Having considered this new evidence, I now dont think Hastings error led to the house falling through. From listening to the call with the prospective buyer I am convinced [her 
perception of] the general condition of the property and the future risk it presented was the 
main reason she pulled out of the purchase. Therefore, I dont think its fair to hold Hastings 
accountable for any financial loss Mr S has incurred, as I dont think its error led to the 
sequence of events. I know this will be extremely disappointing for Mr S and will not ease his 
financial difficulties, but I have based my decision on the evidence that has been provided 
and what I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
However, I do think Hasting error has caused Mr S difficulties and unnecessary distress. I 
think Hastings couldve dealt with Mr S concerns earlier by sharing the call or a transcript of 
the call between the prospective buyer and itself. I think this wouldve helped manage Mr S 
expectations. Therefore, I do intend to uphold this complaint in part. I intend to award Mr S a 
further £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused (in addition to the £250 
already offered by Hastings).
Responses to my second provisional decision
Hastings accepted my second provisional decision, and it didnt have anything further to add.
Mr S didnt accept my second provisional decision. He said hes attached evidence that is 
contrary to what I set out in my decision that the general condition of the property and the 
future risk it presented was the main reason she pulled out of the purchase. 
Mr S said his evidence demonstrates the following: (1) that the property was in a good 
condition, (2) that there was no off-market future risk that could not have been covered with 
standard insurance, (3) that our buyers were highly motivated and committed to the 
purchase of our property until Hastings actions and (4) that Hastings was the critical, 
principal and only reason our prospective buyers confidence in our property was terminally 
undermined.
Mr S continued I want to add that your current decision is missing a key causal link between 
concerns around the property and the ability to find insurance. This is very concerning to me 
as my complaint regards Hastings retraction of its original assurances and the role this 
played in critically undermining my prospective buyers confidence in the general condition 
of the property, and which therefore terminally impacted my ability to sell the property. For 
extra clarity, my complaint is not vaguely related to the provision of insurance for a house, it 
was that the specific assurances provided regarding the continuity of underwriter were later 
retracted by Hastings which led to the sale falling through. This was later compounded by a 
general lack of care and attention, as a satisfactory resolution could have been found.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided a well written and detailed response to my second provisional decision. 
He has provided some new evidence which I have considered carefully.
A structural engineering survey on the property was carried out following the work was 
completed aimed at providing assurance to the prospective buyers. The engineer 
commented no further significant subsidence and settlement of the front part of the subject 
building should be expected within the foreseeable future. Mr S said his evidence shows his 
property is of a high standard and has never had any structural concerns  only a slight 
issue with vegetation. Hes also said there is evidence that the prospective buyers were 
motivated and satisfied with the general condition of the property until their ability to secure standard insurance became a great concern.
I cant overlook the recorded call I have listened to from the prospective buyer. This provides 
a first-hand testimony from the prospective buyers explaining why they pulled out of the 
purchase. I appreciate Mr S has provided evidence of the condition of the property after work 
was carried out. But whats most important is the perception the prospective buyers had on 
the property and the risk they were willing to take on future subsidence issues. On the 
recorded call, Hastings did at several points offer to get quotes and figures for the 
prospective buyer, but the buyer didnt want these. Its clear to me that it was the prospective 
buyer choosing not to buy once they knew the full claims history of the property, rather than 
Hastings not offering to provide insurance quotes.
For the reasons I set out in my second provisional decision, the prospective buyers werent 
happy to take on this perceived risk and how future issues or issues with surrounding 
properties in the area may impact their ability to insure the property at an economical cost. 
The prospective buyers said if theyd had more information sooner, they wouldve pulled out 
the purchase earlier. I find the buyers actual recorded call / testimony more persuasive as 
its their view that ultimately is critical in their decision to purchase the property. Not that of 
the structural engineers.
I understand Mr S point of view that Hastings error was the critical, principal and only 
reason the prospective buyers confidence in the property was terminally undermined. I was 
initially persuaded of this point myself when I wrote my first provisional decision. I thought it 
was the error by Hastings Operations Director that was the trigger to the sequence of events 
that unfolded.
However, to reiterate, the recorded call of the prospective buyer is the reason I have decided 
not to uphold this complaint. This is extremely compelling evidence that demonstrates that it 
wasnt Hastings error that led to the house falling through, but the perception the 
prospective buyer had on the future risk of the property. The buyer said very clearly if theyd 
known about the second subsidence claim and the claim by the neighbouring property they 
wouldve pulled out of the sale earlier. So, I maintain the decision I set out in my second 
provisional decision, I uphold this complaint in part.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited to:
Pay Mr S £350 in compensation  for distress and inconvenience (Hastings should 
still pay the £250 they offered if it hasnt yet been paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman