DRN-1233785
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy in June 1999. 
What happened
The policy cost £8.12 each month and it covered Mr H only in the event he lost his job and 
was unemployed or if he wasnt working due to accident or sickness. And it wouldve 
provided a monthly benefit of £153.29 for up to 24 months following a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed so the 
complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I think its likely Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take out the MPPI and 
they chose to purchase the policy  although I can understand if they cant remember this 
given how long ago it was.
This is because I can see they both signed a mortgage application form in January 1998 
which had a specific section in it about the MPPI. The heading of the MPPI section was 
entitled Accident, Sickness and Unemployment Insurance.  And it invited them to sign a 
box if this type of cover was something they wanted to have. Alternatively, they wouldve had 
the option to leave this section blank. In this particular case, Mr H signed the box to confirm 
he would like to take advantage of Mortgage Repayments Insurance. 
There was also another separate form to fill out to get the MPPI set up on their account and 
Ive seen a copy of this form as well. This form details the person to be insured, the level of 
cover required and the monthly cost of the policy. And I can see that Mr H signed this form 
as well. 
So I think these things are strong evidence Mr and Mrs H asked for the MPPI and would 
have been able to see they had a choice. I think they both decided they wanted MPPI cover 
and agreed to purchase it.
Halifax confirms that this was an advised sale, so it needed to take appropriate steps to 
ensure that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs H. And for the reasons set out below I 
think it was suitable for them, taking into account the policy benefits, cost of cover and their broader financial circumstances at that time. And I dont think its likely that they wouldve 
acted differently; and not taken out the policy, if theyd been better advised and informed.
I say this because:
 
The policy covered Mr H and given his circumstances at the time of the sale, (and 
taking account of the policy conditions), I am satisfied he was eligible for the cover. 
Mrs H wasnt covered by the policy  she wasnt working  and the policy wouldve 
been unsuitable for her.
 
His circumstances do not suggest that he wouldve been affected by any of the 
significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating to health 
conditions or unusual employment arrangements. He told us he was employed and in 
good health. So, he could expect to benefit from the full extent of the cover provided 
by this policy.
 
Whilst Mr H had a very small amount of savings, he told us he had no sick pay. So, if 
he were unable to work, the MPPI was intended to remove the additional pressure of 
maintaining mortgage repayments, at what would likely be a difficult time. The 
mortgage was secured against their home and so the consequences of them not 
being able to keep up payments could have been serious.
 
Mr and Mrs H told us they had very limited savings  so the policy would have 
allowed them to leave these savings for the purpose that theyd intended as well as 
other essential expenses at what is likely to be a difficult time financially if Mr H lost 
his job.
 
So although I cant say why Mr and Mrs H decided to buy this policy, I dont think Halifax 
recommending it to them was unreasonable. I think the policy was suitable.
I dont know for certain how the costs of the policy were explained during the conversation 
with the Halifax sales adviser. The policy provided a monthly benefit at a cost of around 
£153 per month. And it seems to me that someone in their circumstances might have 
concluded that the policy provided valuable cover at a very reasonable price. And in the 
event that they no longer wanted to have the benefit of the cover, Mr and Mrs H couldve 
cancelled the policy at any time without penalty.
Summary
So, having considered all the evidence carefully, although I accept there may well have been 
some failings in how the policy was sold, I dont think Mr and Mrs H would have decided 
against taking it out if they had been better informed. It seems more likely to me that they 
had some interest in protecting their mortgage repayments and chose to go ahead with the 
policy. 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman