DRN-4460114
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC allowed a transaction to go through his account after it 
had been closed putting him into an unarranged overdraft. He says Lloyds then didnt 
provide the service it should have, and his credit file was affected for an extended period. He 
says this resulted in him putting his visa application on hold and potentially jeopardising his 
employment prospects as well as meaning he was declined for other finance. He says this 
issue has caused him significant stress.  
What happened
Mr K says that in March 2023 he switched his current accounts from Lloyds to another 
finance provider. This was successfully completed but he then received text messages 
saying he owed Lloyds £19.39 in an unarranged overdraft. He visited his branch to resolve 
the issue and after about an hour was told the switch had been successful and he didnt owe 
anything. Mr K says he asked for confirmation that his credit file wouldnt be affected by this 
issue as he was about to start a visa application to work overseas. He says he was assured 
he didnt need to do anything more and that he should ignore any messages regarding this 
as his account had been closed.
In June 2023, Mr K checked his credit file and saw that his credit score had fallen 
significantly due to Lloyds claiming his account was still open and recording late payments. 
Mr K visited a branch to raise a complaint and says he was told he would be contacted the 
next day, but this didnt happen. Mr K returned to the branch and his complaint was logged 
but again he wasnt then contacted as he was told and so he had to visit the branch again. 
He says as the issue wasnt resolved by the end of the month his credit score was affected 
and he put his visa application on hold. Mr K was then contacted by the complaints team and 
assured that the credit reference agencies had been contacted and so his credit score would 
return to where it was before this mistake was made.
Mr K says his credit score has been severely damaged, affecting his ability to get an 
overdraft, loan or financing. And that he had to put his visa application on hold jeopardising 
his employment prospects. He says this issue has caused him a significant amount of 
distress and he doesnt accept that the £250 paid by Lloyds is enough compensation for this. 
In its final response letter dated 6 July 2023, Lloyds accepted it had made a mistake by 
allowing a transaction to go through on Mr Ks closed account. Because of this it paid him 
£19.39 for the outstanding balance owed on the overdraft and paid him £250 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience he had been caused. It also said that it would remove any 
late payment markers arising from this issue from Mr Ks credit file.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response and referred his complain to this service. 
Our investigator noted that the late payment markers added to Mr Ks credit file werent the 
only piece of adverse information as Mr K had four defaulted accounts and had taken on 
more credit in the six months prior to August 2023. She noted Mr Ks comment about 
pausing his visa application due to his credit score but as she didnt think that Lloyds was 
solely responsible for the issues with Mr Ks credit score, she didnt hold it responsible for 
Mr Ks decision to put his application on hold or any impact arising from this. She said she 
hadnt seen copies of the finance applications Mr K said he had declined and so couldnt say 
this was solely because of the information recorded by Lloyds on his credit report. She noted 
that Mr K had needed to visit a branch on several occasions to try to resolve this issue and 
that it had caused him distress and inconvenience, but she thought the actions taken by 
Lloyds in response this complaint were reasonable. 
Mr K didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that £250 wasnt enough 
compensation for a serious banking error which affected his credit file for months and for the 
incorrect information he was provided with by the manager in branch and the late payment 
markers being reapplied to his credit file despite this being monitored. He said the defaulted 
accounts our investigator referred to were settled in August 2019 and his credit score had 
been increasing since then and he said that he had been told the late payment markers 
applied by Lloyds would have had a considerable impact on his credit score. Mr K says he 
wasnt told that the late payment markers could be re-applied and instead he had to contact 
Lloyds again about this issue to get the markers removed again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case Lloyds made a mistake by allowing a transaction to go through Mr Ks account 
after it had been closed through the switching process. It didnt provide the service it should 
have when Mr K asked about this issue in branch and then also failed to deliver the service 
we would expect in response to Mr Ks concerns about his credit file. 
When a bank has made a mistake, we would expect the customer to be put back in the 
position they would have been had the mistake not been made. And, where appropriate we 
will award compensation. 
Lloyds received Mr Ks switch request on 28 February 2023 and its switch team confirmed 
the switch date of 8 March. However, on 11 March a transaction left Mr Ks Lloyds account. 
Lloyds accepted that this shouldnt have happened and has refunded Mr K the transaction 
amount. While this resolves the issue in regard to the amount paid, because the transaction 
went through Mr Ks account after his balance had been transferred, the transaction caused 
his account to go into an unarranged overdraft. Because of this the account remained open 
and adverse information was recorded on Mr Ks credit file. 
Mr Ks credit file was amended in July 2023, but the late payment markers were reapplied 
and so Mr K had to contact Lloyds again. The markers were removed in August 2023, and I 
have nothing to suggest they have been reapplied after this. Therefore, I find that Mr Ks 
credit file has been amended to reflect the situation had the mistake with the payment not 
been made.
As Mr K has been put back in the position he would have been had the mistake with the 
payment not been made, the outstanding issue relates to the amount of compensation that is 
reasonable given the issue that arose, the service Mr K received and the impact this has 
had.
Mr K said he received a text from Lloyds saying his account was in an unarranged overdraft 
after the account switch had been completed. He visited a branch to find out what had 
happened and was incorrectly told that his account had been closed and he didnt owe 
Lloyds any money. Mr K says he was told to ignore any further messages about this. Given 
this I can understand why Mr K thought everything was fine with his account at that time. Unfortunately, the information he was given was incorrect.
Mr K checked his credit file in June 2023 and discovered that his credit score had fallen 
significantly. I accept that his credit score had been affected prior to this date as a result of 
the March transaction but it was only at this point that this issue was identified and started to 
cause Mr K concern. 
Mr K obtained a copy of his credit report, and this showed that Lloyds had kept his account 
open and recorded late payments. Mr K went into a branch to try to resolve this and was told 
that he would be called the next day and a complaint logged. This didnt happen and Mr K 
had to visit the branch again. His complaint was raised, and he was told he would be 
contacted within 48 hours. This didnt happen and Mr K went into the branch for a third time. 
I do not find that this was the service that Mr K should have received, and I agree that he 
should be compensated for the lack of call backs and his need to visit the bank on three 
occasions to get this issue addressed.
Mr Ks main concern was that his credit file had been affected by the late payment markers. 
A call was made at the end of June by the branch manager to try to get the markers 
removed before the end of the month, but this wasnt possible. Lloyds called Mr K on 6 July 
and confirmed that a message had been sent to the credit reference agencies the day before 
to confirm that the adverse information should be deleted immediately. The Lloyds adviser 
said he would monitor Mr Ks account to make sure nothing else went on and he said that if 
Mr K saw any other issues, he should make contact. Mr K was asked if he had repaid the 
amount of the unarranged overdraft and he confirmed he hadnt but would do so that day. 
He was told the importance of this, and I can see that he repaid this on 10 July. 
Unfortunately, Mr K had to contact Lloyds again in August as the adverse information was 
still on his credit file. Lloyds has explained that although the information was removed in July 
as agreed, it was reapplied and had to be removed again in August. 
Mr K has said that the adverse information Lloyds recorded in his credit file meant he was 
declined for other finance applications and had to get high-cost loans. I have looked at 
Mr Ks credit file from August 2023 and can see that he had four defaulted accounts listed. I 
note his comments that these were settled in 2019, but het credit file shows the defaults 
recorded in 2019 and 2020 and settled between February 2020 and February 2022. While 
these accounts were settled, I cannot say that they wouldnt have had any impact on future 
lending decisions. Therefore, while I can see that Mr K took out loans while the issue with 
the late payment was ongoing, I havent been provided with evidence to say for certain that 
he wasnt able to access other finance at that time due to the late payment markers. Without 
this I cannot say that this issue has caused Mr K a financial loss.
Mr K has said he delayed his application for a visa. While I note his comments, this was his 
decision and the late payment markers werent the only adverse information recorded on his 
credit file. I appreciate he was working with an overseas company and he was considering 
applying for a visa to move overseas to take on further work but I cannot say for certain that 
this issue prevented him from making his application nor can I ask Lloyds to refund him for 
potential earnings that he may have received had he made a successful visa application at 
that time.
Having considered all of the issues raised in this complaint, I find that compensation should 
be paid for the incorrect information given to Mr K when he first visited the branch to discuss 
the text he had received, as well as for the further visits he needed to make when he 
identified the issue was ongoing and the agreed call backs werent made. 
Lloyds paid Mr K £250 in July 2023 because of these issues. It also said that Mr Ks account 
would be monitored over the following month to ensure no further late payments were reported. This information was also given to him on the July call. Therefore, while I 
understand that Mr K made a further call in August due to the markers still being on his 
credit file, it was confirmed to him that they had been removed in line with what had been 
agreed but these had been reapplied. He was then told that a request had been made for 
these to be removed. I cannot say whether Mr K not repaying the unarranged overdraft 
amount until 10 July had an impact on the reapplication of the credit markers but putting that 
aside, while I appreciate that seeing the markers on his credit file in August was concerning 
to Mr K, I find that Lloyds had said his account would be monitored and took prompt action to 
deal with the re-application.
Taking all of this into account, I find the compensation paid of £250 (alongside the other 
actions taken) is a reasonable resolution to this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything further in resolution 
of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman