DRN-1226740
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) refused to increase his credit limit 
without providing a reason why. 
Background
Whilst on holiday abroad, Mr W left his bag containing his spending money in a taxi. He 
hadnt taken his bank cards, only his BOI credit card and a money passport. He contacted 
BOI to request an increase to his credit limit so that hed have enough available funds to 
enjoy his trip.
Mr Ws request was declined. BOI say its system makes the decision based on a scorecard 
made up of its lending criteria. Its not prepared to disclose this information as its 
commercially sensitive. 
Mr W isnt happy with this. He wants to know the reason why. And he wants BOI to 
compensate him for the three days of his holiday that were ruined because he had to spend 
time arranging money to be transferred to him from different sources. He says this wouldnt 
have had to happen if BOI had approved his request. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied BOI had acted in line with the 
account terms and conditions which say changes to credit limits will be subjected to 
appropriate checks. She said that whilst she couldnt disclose the reason why Mr W was 
declined, she could reassure him that BOI had followed its internal procedure and treated 
him fairly. She didnt think BOI was responsible for Mr Ws ruined holiday. 
Mr W didnt agree. So, his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr 
Ws complaint. Ill explain why below.
Whilst Mr W was an existing customer of BOI at the time of requesting the increase to his 
credit limit, any additional form of borrowing will be subjected to appropriate and 
proportionate affordability checks. 
Its not our role to determine what these checks should take into account. And we cant tell a 
business to approve a customer for credit. Ultimately, its up to BOI to decide who it wants to 
lend to, what amount it lends and on what terms. This is because its up to BOI to exercise its 
judgement of what risks it wants to accept in accordance with its lending criteria and 
responsible lending guidelines. Our role is to ensure BOI treated Mr W fairly when 
considering his application for additional credit.  
From everything Ive seen, Im satisfied BOI considered Mr Ws application as this was 
submitted on its internal systems. And I cant say he was treated differently to any other 
customer as BOI has told us it used the same process it would for all its customers. Mr W has been subject to the same checks that anyone else wouldve been had they applied for a 
credit increase.
BOI say its systems use a scorecard to determine whether a customer should be approved. 
Its declined to share the scorecard. This isnt unreasonable. Businesses are entitled to 
decide whether they want to share certain information with their customers, particularly if 
they relate to the effective running of their business. In this case BOI says the scorecard is 
based on their lending and risk appetite and that information is commercially sensitive. I 
understand why it wouldnt want to disclose this to its customers and I dont think its 
unreasonable for them not to do so. And I dont think that BOI needed to provide Mr W with 
any more of an explanation than it did. In this case I think it was sufficient for them to explain 
what its decision to decline his application was based upon- namely their scorecard.
It must have been extremely upsetting for Mr W to lose his spending money so early into his 
holiday. And whilst I appreciate he feels BOI shouldve done more to help him, I cant agree 
that its responsible for ruining three days of his holiday whilst he obtained funds from 
elsewhere. I understand BOI has paid £55 towards the costs of Mr Ws calls. I dont think it 
needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Bank of Ireland (UK) 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
 
 
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman