DRN-1902745
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy esure Insurance Limited, trading as Sheilas Wheels, declined a claim he 
made under his home insurance policy for damage to his kitchen.
What happened
Mr A made a claim to esure after he discovered a crack in the kitchen sink. esure sent a 
surveyor to inspect the damage. Based on the surveyors report, esure declined the claim. It 
said the main cause of damage was gradual deterioration, which isnt covered by the policy, 
and the damage hadnt been caused by a single one-off event.
Theres a disagreement about how the damage happened. Mr A said something hit the sink 
and cracked it suddenly. esures surveyor said the nearby worktop had swollen over time as 
a result of water damage, putting pressure on the sink and causing a stress fracture. They 
thought water had been escaping from the adjacent sink and noted silicone in place near the 
sink to limit this. Mr A says he applied the silicone recently.
The surveyor also said the units below the cracked sink had suffered water damage over a 
period of time. I understand they think this was caused by a combination of the leak through 
the crack and the water escaping around the nearby sink area.
Unhappy with this, Mr A made a complaint, but the outcome remained the same. He referred 
his complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered it. They thought the 
damage was due to wear and agreed with esure it wasnt a one-off incident. Because of this 
they thought it was fair for esure to decline the claim.
Mr A disagreed. He said something had hit the sink to cause the crack and there hadnt been 
any existing damage prior to that. An agreement couldnt be reached so the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied esure has acted fairly, so I wont be asking it to do anything 
further. Ill explain why.
The policy covers accidental damage to buildings and contents. The policy defines 
accidental damage to mean single, sudden, unexpected, physical damage which was not 
deliberate. The policy doesnt cover any wear and tear or damage that happens gradually. 
These are common features of most home insurance policies.
The surveyors report included a number of photos of the damage and explanation as to how 
in their expert opinion the damage occurred. In my view they support what the surveyor has 
said about the likely cause of the crack. There are clear signs of water leaking into the units 
below the crack and causing damage over a period of time. Had the crack been sudden and 
recent I dont think that degree of water damage would have occurred in the units below.
Theres also signs of the surface of the nearby worktop blistering, bulging and splitting in 
places. The surveyor believes water had been getting into it, gradually causing it to swell, 
and I agree that appears the most likely explanation based on the evidence available. Im 
persuaded the kitchen sink cracked as a result of a gradual build-up of pressure on it, as the 
surveyor described. I havent seen any other evidence to explain how it happened.
Overall, Im satisfied the crack and the water damage are both signs of a gradually occurring 
problem  and not a single, sudden instance of damage as required by the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman