DRN-4062517
The complaint
Mr L complains that Equifax Limited cant record his full surname on his credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said:
Last year, Mr L contacted Equifax after he moved home. Mr L set up an account with a third 
party business that obtains credit file information from Equifax. But Mr L found that his 
financial history wasnt correct and that there were issues with the format of his surname. 
Mr L also found he wasnt showing as being recorded on the electoral register despite being 
registered to vote.
Equifax looked into the problems Mr L raised and explained that his surname is too long for 
its systems to record correctly. As a result, Mr L wasnt showing on the electoral register. 
Equifax said it could report a shortened version of Mr Ls surname and manually update the 
electoral register information so it appeared on his credit file. Equifax gave Mr L three 
options for the shortened format it could use.
Mr L advised Equifax he was declined for a mortgage and credit card applications as a result 
of the problems it has recording the format of his name correctly and not showing as being 
on the electoral register. Equifax spoke with Mr L and raised a complaint. A shortened 
version of Mr Ls name was used and manually updated so it appeared on the electoral 
register. Equifax offered Mr L £100 to apologise for the inconvenience caused.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ls complaint. They explained that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service cant tell a business to change its systems. The investigator thought 
Equifax had agreed a reasonable workaround by using an amended version of Mr Ls name 
and that it had dealt with his complaint fairly.
Mr L asked to appeal so his complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I asked our 
investigator to contact Mr L for some additional information. We asked Mr L to supply 
evidence that showed his mortgage and other credit applications were declined as a direct 
result of the way Equifax records his name. Mr L responded to say there was a lack of 
transparency in the way Equifax works. Mr L advised that the lenders involved wouldnt 
disclose the reason why his applications were turned down.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Im going to start by talking about the main issue which is that Equifaxs system is unable to 
accommodate all the letters in Mr Ls surname. I want to assure Mr L that I agree the ideal 
result would be for Equifax to be able to record the correct format of his surname. But, as our 
investigator said, we dont have the powers to tell a business to change the way its systems 
operate. I understand that Mr L will most likely find that answer unsatisfactory, but I cant tell 
Equifax to change how its systems work.
Equifax has put a workaround in place that means a shortened version of Mr Ls surname is 
used and hes manually added to the electoral register. I appreciate why Mr L finds the 
solution unreasonable and why he wants the full version of his name to be recorded. But, Im 
satisfied that systems limitations mean Equifax cant record Mr Ls full name. And the 
workaround option Equifax has offered means Mr L will show as being recorded on the 
electoral register. Without resolving the systems issue, Im satisfied the option Equifax has 
given is a reasonable way forward.
Mr Ls told us hes been declined for a mortgage and other credit and is of the view that his 
electoral roll information and the format of his surname were responsible. We asked Mr L to 
provide supporting evidence that showed why his applications were declined. But Mr Ls 
responded and confirmed hes unable to provide that information as the businesses didnt 
share the specific reasons behind their decisions. Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but there are a 
range of reasons businesses can decline applications. Without seeing evidence that 
specifically notes the issues raised here as the key reason for his applications being 
declined, Im unable to safely conclude it was Equifaxs systems issue that was responsible.
Whilst Im unable to tell Equifax to change its systems, I can consider the wider impact of the 
issues raised on Mr L. I agree that the issues raised have caused Mr L a reasonable level of 
inconvenience. And, as noted above, the only way for Mr L to appear on the electoral 
register appears to be via a workaround that doesnt show his name correctly. I also agree 
with Mr L that Equifaxs responses couldve been clearer at times and that the service 
provided shouldve been better. Even though I havent seen direct evidence that Mr Ls 
applications were declined as a result of the way his surname is displayed, I accept that the 
systems issue is likely to have caused additional inconvenience above that other customers 
experience.
Equifax offered Mr L £100 to apologise for the issues raised, but Im not persuaded thats a 
fair recognition of the level of distress and inconvenience caused. Whilst I cant tell Equifax 
to change its systems, I intend to increase the level of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. In my view, a total of £250 more fairly reflects the issues raised and 
their impact on Mr L. So unless I see any new evidence that changes my mind, I intend to 
uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Equifax to pay him a total of £250.
I should add that if Mr L experiences problems in the future that can be directly linked to how 
Equifaxs system records his name and electoral roll information, hell be able to raise them 
as new issues with the business as new complaints.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Equifax responded and confirmed it was 
willing to accept. We didnt hear back from Mr L. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Ls complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Equifax Limited to pay him a total of 
£250 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman