DRN-4020309
The complaint
Mr C complains that Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby) gave him a loan 
that he couldnt afford to repay.   
What happened
Mr C took one loan from Shelby on 19 October 2021 for £200. Mr C was due to make six 
monthly repayments of £65.04. The loan was settled on 22 March 2022.
Shelby considered Mr Cs complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide the loan because it had carried out proportionate checks which included asking Mr C 
for his income and expenditure information as well as carrying out a credit check. The results 
of these checks showed Shelby Mr C could afford his loan repayments. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr C referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman where 
the complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Shelby made a reasonable 
decision to provide the loan because Shelby carried out proportionate checks which showed 
the loan repayments to be affordable. 
Shelby hasnt acknowledged or responded to the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr C said he didnt agree with the outcome, and he asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mr C could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Shelbys checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Cs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr C. These factors include:
Mr C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr C. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied in Mr Cs case. 
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr C was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Cs complaint.
Before the loan was approved, Shelby asked Mr C for details of his income, which he 
declared to be £2,452 per month. Mr C as part of his application also declared outgoings of 
£1,065, which left Mr C with £1,387 of disposable income each month. 
As part of the application, Shelby overlaid what Mr C had declared about his expenditure 
with data from two different sources and made adjustments to the information. Firstly, it 
made adjustments using Office of National Statistics (ONS) data and secondly, from 
information obtained from Mr Cs credit search (which Ill go into more detail below). 
After the ONS data and credit search results were factored into the income and expenditure 
assessment  Shelby didnt increase his expenditure because what Mr C had declared was 
greater than the information Shelbys checks showed. 
Before this loan was approved Shelby also carried out a credit search and it has provided a 
summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here 
that although Shelby carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do 
one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Shelby cant do is carry out a credit 
search and then not react to the to the information it received. 
Having reviewed the credit check results, there isnt anything that wouldve indicated that 
Mr C was having current financial difficulties, for example it knew there wasnt any 
insolvency markers, defaults or debt management plans recorded. 
Shelby was also aware from the result that Mr C hadnt taken any short-term loan accounts 
such as payday loans, within the six months preceding the loan. It also knew that Mr C had 
total debts of just under £2,000  which isnt a particularly big amount. 
In my view, there wasnt anything within the credit search results which wouldve have led 
Shelby to either have carried out further checks or prompted it to have declined Mr Cs 
application for credit. There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Shelby to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information
Mr C had provided. In my view, it wouldve been disproportionate for Shelby to have for 
examples considered Mr Cs bank statements or any other documentation to support what 
he was saying.  
Given it was early in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Shelby to have 
relied on the information Mr C provided along with the income and expenditure figures to 
show he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to 
making. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr C was having financial difficulties 
or that the loan repayments would be unsustainable for him for any other reason. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Cs complaint about this loan.
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman