DRN-4041743
The complaint
Mr V has complained that he was mis-sold a homebuyer protection plan by MLP (Mortgage 
Life & Pensions).
What happened
In 2004 Mr V was buying a property and arranged a mortgage and insurance through a 
financial adviser, MLP. MLP was a member of the Mortgage Code Compliance 
Board(MCCB). 
Mr V purchased the plan in 2004 and went on risk on 2005. He has complained that he was 
at no stage advised that the policy was not essential and didnt have to be taken or that the 
adviser received commission. He has also said that he was not made aware of any other 
products that would have been suitable or better. Finally Mr V complains that the product 
wasnt suitable as he had life insurance and was single with no dependants. MLP didnt 
agree with the points Mr V raised so he referred his complaint here. 
Our investigator felt that a standalone critical illness policy would have been more suitable 
for Mr V. She recommended that Mr V be refunded the cost of the life cover, with interest, 
assuming the homebuyer protection plan was more expensive in 2004 than a standalone 
critical illness plan.
No evidence was forthcoming to show that a standalone plan would have meant a financial 
saving for Mr V. As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023. I said as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not minded to uphold Mr Vs complaint.
I firstly need to explain why we can only look at certain aspects of Mr Vs complaint. The sale 
and marketing of insurance first became an activity regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) in 2005. That means this service can look at complaints about the sale of 
insurance products from that date.
MLP (Mortgage Life & Pensions) advised Mr V in 2004. It was a member of the MCCB, 
which was a voluntary scheme that lenders and mortgage brokers were able to sign up to. 
Disputes under the MCCB were dealt with under a former dispute resolution scheme known 
as the Mortgage Code Arbitration Scheme (MCAS). The relevant transitional provisions 
gave us the power to consider complaints that were covered by the MCAS.
But advice given which led to the purchase of Mr Vs policy was in 2004, which was before 
that date. We can only look at insurance sales before 2005 for businesses like MLP under 
certain circumstances. MLP was a member of the Mortgage Code Compliance Board 
(MCCB) in 2004. Complaints about MLP could be looked at by the Mortgage Code 
Arbitration Scheme (MCAS).
In summary, this means that when considering Mr Vs complaint, I can only look at the points 
MCAS couldve looked at. As far as relevant to this complaint this is where there was a 
breach of the Mortgage Code. But only a very small part of the Mortgage Code related to 
insurance. The relevant part of Section 3.2 of the code said:
When providing information to help you to choose a mortgage we will give you the 
following:
whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance be taken out and 
whose responsibility it is to ensure that it is taken out;
a general description of any costs, fees or other charges in connection with the 
mortgage which may be payable by you (for example, mortgage valuation fees, 
arrangement fees, early repayment charges, legal fees and insurance premiums).
So Im unable to consider Mr Vs complaint about suitability, but I can look at Vs complaints 
that he wasnt told the homebuyer protection plan was optional, and that he wasnt told that 
the adviser would receive commission. I recognise Mr V will be disappointed, but on these 
points Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for the largely same 
reasons. Ill explain my reasons:
Ive carefully considered the documentation from the time of the recommendation. 
This was an advised sale. Its clear that there was a discussion about life 
assurance/critical illness protection. The adviser wrote You wish to take out 
Protection Cover for Death/Critical Illness on your life on 1st event for the full term of 
20 yearsWe agreed it would be pertinent to insure yourself for a minimum of . 
Its apparent that this was a recommendation that had been discussed.
There is nothing to suggest that Mr V was told he had to have the policy in order to 
get the mortgage. Indeed Mr V says he wasnt advised that it wasnt essential, 
rather than told that it was. Looking at all the evidence before me I cant see that its 
anywhere suggested that it was other than a recommendation. I dont find that Mr V 
was forced to take the insurance cover, as he suggests.
I cant agree that there was any breach of the mortgage code with regard to charges 
payable by Mr V  here commission. The letter sent to Mr V on 29 March 2004 says 
that insurance policy commissions are received from the insurer. The illustration for 
the plan sent by the insurer also explained how much commission would be in the 
section headed How much will the advice cost?
For the reasons given I didnt provisionally find that the policy was mis-sold to Mr V or that 
he was in any way misadvised.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or representations. MLP (Mortgage 
Life & Pensions) accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr V responded. He commented on the service he had received; this will be looked at 
separately. As far as his complaint against MLP is concerned, in summary Mr V felt that it 
was MLPs duty to advise him that the cover was not compulsory  rather than his 
responsibility to provide proof that MLP didnt advise him that it wasnt compulsory. He felt 
that it was MLPs responsibility to document what was discussed. He asked how he might 
avoid the problem happening again. Mr V also said that none of the evidence MLP had provided had been shared with him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I take on board Mr Vs comments that if seeking professional advice, it should be for the 
professional  here MLP  to document that advice. Regulations that apply today didnt 
apply in 2004 but nevertheless MLP did set out its recommendations to Mr V in writing  he 
has been provided with a copy of that letter. The same letter explained the basis for the 
remuneration that MLP would receive. Additionally Mr V was sent an illustration produced by 
the insurer setting out the details of his plan and the mortgage offer issue to MLP. A copy of 
those documents were also sent to him by our investigator.
None of the documentation I have referred to says or suggests that it was a condition of the 
mortgage that the insurance had to be taken out. Mr V hasnt said that he was told that it 
was a condition of the mortgage that the policy was taken out, rather that he wasnt advised 
to the contrary. But the comments he now makes dont change my provisional findings that it 
is apparent from the documentation that a recommendation was being made by MLP 
following a discussion. 
Accordingly I am not persuaded to change my provisional findings, which I adopt here. I 
cant consider all the points of the complaint, for the reasons given. But with regards to the 
parts of Mr Vs complaint I have considered, I dont find that the policy was mis-sold to Mr V 
or that he was in any way mis-advised. 
I understand why Mr V posed the question as to how he might avoid this happening in the 
future. Im sorry we cant assist in this regard - I trust Mr V will accept that it is not within the 
statutory remit of this service to give advice. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman