DRN-2254456
The complaint
This complaint is about an equity release mortgage taken out on the advice of Aviva Equity 
Release UK Limited. Specifically, the complaint is that it was not explained at the point of 
sale that interest would be compounded.
The complaint was originally brought by Mrs V, but I am very sorry to note that she recently 
passed away. Her son and Executor, Mr V, has taken over the complaint on behalf of the 
estate.
To settle the complaint, Mr V wants Aviva to refund interest on the loan, which he believes 
has been overcharged.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
The details of what happened are set out in detail in the correspondence between the parties 
and our investigator, so I wont repeat the background here. Instead Ill concentrate on what 
is the issue in the complaint  which is that Mrs V said she had never been told that interest 
on the loan would be compound, rather than simple, interest.
Briefly, in January 2003 Mrs V was given advice by Aviva (then known as Norwich Union) 
about equity release mortgages, and after receiving a letter of recommendation dated 
8 January 2003, Mrs V applied for a mortgage, also with Aviva. She borrowed £75,000 at a 
fixed interest rate of 7.55% per annum. The loan completed on 31 March 2003.
In common with this type of loan, no monthly payments are required; instead, interest rolls 
up over the term of the loan, which is repayable on the death of the borrower, or if the 
borrower moves into long-term care or voluntarily sells the property.
In August 2019 Mrs V complained to Aviva that the loan had been mis-sold. Mrs V said shed 
not received regular statements and, after receiving her most recent statement, Mrs V said 
she was shocked at the amount of the outstanding debt. Mrs V said that Aviva had failed to 
explain that the working out of the interest wasnt just on the loan.
In its final response letter dated 8 November 2019, Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. Aviva 
set out in detail the sales process, including details of discussions with the adviser. Aviva 
was satisfied that Mrs V had been advised about compound interest and that this had also 
been explained in the documentation. Aviva said that Mrs V had been given advice by her 
own solicitors before taking out the mortgage and that annual statements had been sent to 
her.
Dissatisfied with Avivas response, Mrs V brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. She expanded on her complaint  saying that, in addition to Aviva not 
explaining that interest would be compounded, nor any information about the implications of 
this on the overall debt, Aviva had also failed to ensure that she obtained independent legal 
advice.
Sadly, before our investigator could look at the complaint, Mrs V passed away. The 
complaint has been continued by Mr V on behalf of his late mothers estate. He has 
reiterated the concerns his mother had raised about what he says is Avivas failure to explain 
that interest on the loan was compounded.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that the loan 
documentation clearly explained that interest would be compounded and that an illustration 
was provided about this. He was also satisfied that Mrs V had been given independent legal 
advice by her own solicitors. The investigator noted that Mr V had attended two meetings 
with his mother and the adviser. Overall, the investigator didnt think the mortgage had been 
mis-sold and that the information about how interest was calculated had been properly 
explained.
Mr V didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Hes reiterated all his concerns about what he says is Avivas failure to explain 
that interest is compounded and that, as a result, the mortgage was mis-sold. Mr V has also 
raised a new issue  that Aviva has refused to freeze interest on the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to express my condolences to Mr V on the loss of his mother. I am sure 
that this ongoing complaint has added to the weight of his grief, and so I am very sorry if my 
decision causes any further distress. But, having reviewed the complaint in detail, I have 
disappointing news for Mr V; Im not upholding the complaint.
As I said at the start, Im not going to comment on each and every issue. The crux of this 
complaint is that the way interest is applied was never explained, and that is what Ive 
concentrated on.
This loan was sold in 2003, before mortgages became subject to regulation on 31 October 
2004. This type of mortgage is designed for elderly customers aged at least 55. When they 
were first introduced over 30 years ago lenders recognised the potential for complaints from 
consumers or family members, many years after the sale, that the mortgage was mis-sold. 
As a result, the industry trade association for equity release mortgages  known as Safe 
Home Income Plans (SHIP) originally, but as the Equity Release Council since 2012  
required businesses offering equity release mortgages to comply with strict and robust 
selling standards, even before mortgages were regulated. These standards included the 
requirement for borrowers to be given illustrations of how interest rolls up over the term of the loan, as well as the need for the borrower to have independent legal advice from their 
own solicitor.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation. The value of such documents is 
that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and agreed at the 
relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information might be 
recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a 
distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or 
contradictory. So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the contemporaneous 
information is inaccurate, well generally attach some weight to it.
For example, Mrs V, in her letter to the Financial Ombudsman Service dated 21 January 
2020 said shed never had any independent legal advice about the loan. But this wasnt 
correct, and Mrs V did, in fact, see her own solicitor, who confirmed in writing to Aviva that 
the terms of the loan had been explained to her. (Aviva would not have released the funds 
without this confirmation.) Mrs V also said shed only received statements intermittently, but 
Aviva has provided us with a copy of the annual statements, all of which are correctly 
addressed to Mrs V. So I think its more likely than not that Mrs V did receive annual 
statements.
The above is not intended to be disrespectful, but to demonstrate that recollections, after 
many years, may not be entirely accurate.
Having reviewed the documentation, Im satisfied that, before Mrs V took out the loan, she 
received information in writing explaining that interest on this loan is compound. Mr V says 
that this was never mentioned by the adviser and that he and his mother were led to believe 
that interest was simple, calculated only on the amount of capital advanced. Ive taken note 
of what Mr V has said, but I think its unlikely, knowing the documentation explained that 
interest was compound  and that an illustration of how this worked was provided  that the 
adviser would have said something different.
I think that even if Mrs V (and Mr V) had misunderstood how the interest would be 
calculated, there was sufficient information in the documentation for this to be queried before 
Mrs V decided to go ahead with the loan. It was almost three months between the time the 
advice was given (6 January 2003) and completion of the loan (31 March 2003). So I find 
there was sufficient time for Mrs V to have read the documentation, discussed it with Mr V 
and raised any concerns about it with Aviva.
In particular, Im satisfied that the mortgage illustration dated 6 January 2003 contains an 
illustration of how interest will increase over the terms of the loan, in table form. At the top it 
says: These figures assume the interest rate on your loan is 7.55% per annum compound.
The illustration also says that interest is compound on page 5.
Mr V has sent us a single page of the loan agreement, which he says confirms his 
understanding that the interest was not compound. This is the front page, which sets out the 
basic information about the loan  the amount borrowed, the application fee, the Annual 
Percentage Rate and the interest rate, which is stated as 7.55%. But if Mr V is to read past 
the first page of the loan agreement, he will see that it contains the same information as the 
illustration about how the loan works.
Im satisfied that Aviva provided Mrs V with full details about how interest would be 
calculated and applied to the loan before she took out the mortgage. The documentation 
provided clearly states that this is compound interest. Im also satisfied that annual 
statements were sent by Aviva showing the increasing balance of the loan. In the circumstances, Im unable to agree with Mr V that the mortgage was mis-sold and so Im not 
upholding the complaint.
Mr V has raised another issue  that Aviva has refused to freeze interest on the loan after 
Mrs Vs death. The investigator explained that this is a new issue and that Mr V will need to 
raise this with Aviva before we can consider it. I agree with the investigator on this.
My final decision
I know Mr V will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V, on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs V, to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman