The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about how UK Insurance Limited dealt with repairs to their car 
following a claim against their motor insurance policy. Mr J is the policyholder. Mrs J is the 
named driver and has pursued the complaint. 
What happened
In June 2019, Mr and Mrs Js car was damaged in a car park. They made a claim against 
their policy. UKIs authorised repairer collected the car on 24 June 2019 and completed 
repairs on 2 July 2019. Mr and Mrs J were not happy with the quality of the repairs. 
On 10 July 2019, Mr and Mrs Js car went back to UKIs authorised repairers for rectification 
works. I understand that the first rectification works were completed on 26 July 2019. When 
Mr and Mrs J returned from holiday in August 2019, they remained unhappy with the quality 
of the work and asked that a different garage carry out further rectification works. 
UKI agreed to inspect the car. It subsequently agreed that the repairs were not of a 
satisfactory standard and arranged for another garage to do further rectification work. I 
understand that the second rectification works were carried out and that the car was 
returned to Mr and Mrs J in September 2019. 
In response to the complaint, UKI paid Mr and Mrs J £70 in relation to its seven day promise 
in relation to repairs and £100 in relation to delay and the level of service. It has also offered 
a further £250, which Mrs J didnt accept. 
Mrs J says that she wants UKI to refund the excess she paid and £20 per day for the time 
she was without her car. She also said that she pays £350 a month for her car and pays for 
a servicing plan and road tax. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He thought that UKI had dealt with 
the complaint fairly. The investigator said that as Mrs J had been provided with a courtesy 
car, UKI doesnt have to pay £20 a day for her loss of use of her car. He said that he couldnt 
ask UKI to pay for Mrs Js finance commitments in relation to the car. The investigator said 
that the excess due under the policy is part of the terms and conditions of the policy. He 
thought that UKIs offer to pay a total of £420 in relation to trouble and upset was fair. 
Mrs J didnt agree with the investigator. She didnt think that the compensation was fair.    
Mrs J said that shed been without her car for some time. She asked that an ombudsman 
consider her complaint, so it was passed to me.
DRN-1094239 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs J in particular has very strong feelings about this. Im conscious that Ive 
condensed what I dont doubt was an annoying and inconvenient time into a short narrative. 
That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. But Im satisfied that 
Ive captured the essence of what happened. 
Its common ground that UKI took too long to repair Mrs Js car. Mrs J was without her car 
for three separate periods between June 2019 and September 2019  although I appreciate 
that repair work wasnt taking place for all that time. As UKI said, it would expect the repairs 
to be right on the first occasion and that didnt happen here. 
The remaining issue for me to decide is whether the compensation UKI has already paid is 
fair and reasonable. I think it is and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Js policy provides that, in the circumstances that arose here, they would be 
provided with a hire car. So, whilst it was inconvenient for them to be without their own car, 
they had the use of a car. So, its not appropriate to compensate them for loss of use. I 
appreciate that Mrs J says that they paid for the hire car cover as part of their policy. But Im 
looking at whether Mr and Mrs J actually suffered loss of use, and they didnt here. 
The excess due under Mr and Mrs Js policy is the amount they are contractually obliged to 
pay when they make a claim. There are no grounds on which to direct UKI to refund the 
excess due under the policy. 
Mrs J says that she incurs various expenses in running her car  finance, service charges 
and tax. I dont think its appropriate to ask UKI to refund those amounts to Mrs J because 
those expenses didnt arise out of anything UKI did. 
Mr and Mrs J were without their own car for three separate occasions in a three month 
period and were put to the trouble of pursuing the repairs. Considering everything, I think the 
payments amounting to £170 UKI has already made and its offer of a further £250  so a 
total amount of £420 - is fair compensation. 
I do appreciate that this matter was annoying and inconvenient for Mr and Mrs J but, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I think UKIs offer of compensation of a further £250 is fair and 
reasonable. I now invite UKI to pay Mr and Mrs J the additional compensation of £250 it has 
already offered.  
 
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
My final decision is that the additional compensation of £250 UK Insurance Limited has 
already offered to pay is fair and reasonable. It should now pay that amount to     
Mr and Mrs J.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Louise Povey
Ombudsman