DRN-3275771
The complaint
Mr W complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd declined a claim made on his 
caravan insurance policy. Mr W is represented in this matter by Mrs W. 
What happened
Mr W said his caravan was damaged by a falling plank whilst it was in storage. But 
Accredited Insurance said the damage was related to the caravans manufacture and this 
was excluded from cover.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He saw that 
Accredited Insurance had an assessor inspect the caravan. He concluded that the damage 
was not due to impact but related to the manufacture. The Investigator thought this was 
excluded by the policys terms and conditions. And so he thought Accredited Insurance had 
therefore acted fairly and reasonably.
Mrs W replied that they thought the assessor had ignored their report of a plank falling onto 
the caravan. She thought there had been no sign of an impact as the caravan had been 
protected by a tarpaulin at the time. She thought it was unfair for Accredited Insurance to 
decline the claim because it thought the cracks hadnt been accidental damage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr W and Mrs W feel frustrated by Accredited Insurances decision to 
decline their claim. They say that they have had the caravan for ten years and have looked 
after it carefully. 
The Investigator has already explained that this service does not assess whether or how 
damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, 
the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine 
whether an insurance company has considered all the available evidence and whether it can 
justify its decision to not pay for repairs.
I can see that Accredited Insurance accepted a claim that Mr Ws caravan had been 
damaged by a falling scaffold pole. Mr W then made a further claim for damage which he 
said was related to the first claim. He said the owner of the storage facility had admitted that 
a plank had fallen on the caravan. 
I think Accredited Insurance reasonably appointed an assessor to inspect the caravan. He 
said the further damage, a fracture, was unrelated to the first claim. He thought it was 
caused by the manufacture and had developed over time. He said there was no sign of 
impact damage, but it was more in line with stress-related fracturing due to a common 
manufacturing fault. 
Accredited Insurance then relied on the following exclusions on page 8 of the policy booklet 
to decline the claim:
We do not cover
1. Depreciation, deterioration, manufacturing defects, wear and tear, damage by moth, 
vermin, mildew, rot, water leakage or any gradually operating process.
3. Cracks to windows or panels unless this has been caused by accidental damage, fire, 
theft, vandalism, storm or flood. 
Mrs W thought the caravan could have been damaged by the falling plank, as the storage 
facility owner had reported to them. But I cant see that Mr W submitted any expert 
engineering evidence to support this view or to counter the assessors report. 
So I think Accredited Insurance has justified its decision to decline the claim as it has relied 
on expert evidence that the claimed for damage wasnt accident-related but due to a 
manufacturing fault. And I think it was entitled to then rely on the policy exclusions set out 
above to decline the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman