DRN-4069942
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service received from Capital One (Europe) plc trading as Capital 
One when closing a credit card account.
What happened
Mr R applied for a credit card with Capital One which was approved. Unhappy with the credit 
limit given Mr R asked for the account to be closed on the same day.
Capital One agreed to close the account and said it would be removed from Mr Rs credit file 
as it had been actioned under the right to withdraw. This might take up to six weeks and the 
hard search done at the time of application would remain for 12 months.  
Mr R said the delays were affecting ability to get credit elsewhere so brought his complaint to 
this service where one of our Investigators looked into what happened. They thought the 
timeframe was in line with industry standards and that Capital One hadnt done anything 
wrong. Mr R disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has confirmed that his complaint is only about the delays of Capital One in informing 
credit reference agencies about changes in the status of his account which he says are 
excessive and unacceptably slow. The complaint isnt about the application itself.
Capital One said it may take up to six weeks for the changes to be made on Mr Rs credit 
file. This is because Capital One say they update account information with credit reference 
agencies once a month. They said that in the meantime Mr R could put a Notice of 
Correction on his credit file to explain what was happening. 
I can see why Mr R would like his credit file updated in a quicker timeframe as he says the 
delays affected his ability to obtain credit elsewhere. 
I think its important to say that its not the role of this service to tell businesses what policies 
and procedures to put in place. Instead my role is to see if Mr R has been treated fairly and 
reasonably when those policies and procedures were applied. And taking everything into 
account Im satisfied thats what happened.
Capital One say they update credit file information once a month. This is not an uncommon 
timeframe for financial businesses. I can see why Mr R thinks it should be quicker, but I dont 
think hes been treated any differently to other customers. They said it could take up to six 
weeks which means it could also happen sooner depending on the date of the event and 
when credit files are updated.
Information provided by credit reference agencies also confirm that it may take four to six 
weeks for information to be updated. So that timeframe is a standard across the finance 
industry. 
Having considered everything that happened Im satisfied Capital One treated Mr R fairly 
and reasonably so I wont be asking them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman