DRN-2157891
The complaint
Mr H complains about how QIC Europe Ltd handled and settled a claim he made under is 
home insurance policy for storm damage. 
Mr H is represented by his mother in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by him directly.
What happened
Mr H holds a household insurance policy, which is provided by QIC. This policy was incepted 
in October 2014 and a copy of the policy terms and schedule were made available to Mr H at 
around that time. 
Mr H says, on 21 July 2019, stormy weather conditions caused damage to a retaining 
boundary wall of his property. So, he made a claim under his policy for storm damage.
QIC appointed a surveyor to attend Mr Hs property and determine the cause of damage to 
his boundary wall. After the surveyor inspected Mr Hs wall it told QIC it thought the damage 
had been caused gradually due to age-related wear and tear. It also thought the wrong 
bricks had been used to construct the wall.
QIC repudiated Mr Hs claim based on the surveyors opinion. It explained that damage that 
had been caused gradually was excluded by his policy.   
Mr H wasnt happy with how QIC proposed to resolve his claim. He felt, as thered been 
strong winds at around the time the damage occurred, a storm had caused the damage to 
his wall. And he said he had evidence from a builder to support that. So, he complained that 
QIC wouldnt meet his claim. 
QIC investigated Mr Hs concerns. But it maintained its stance that the damage wasnt 
caused by a one-off storm event as was required by his policy. It therefore didnt uphold his 
complaint about the way it had settled his claim.  
Being dissatisfied with how QIC had dealt with his complaint Mr H referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. They werent persuaded the damage to Mr Hs wall was consistent with a one-off 
identifiable storm event. And they thought it was, most likely, caused by age related wear 
and tear as had been suggested by QICs surveyor. Overall, they thought QIC had dealt with 
Mr Hs complaint fairly and done nothing wrong in declining his claim. But Mr H disagreed 
and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mr H and QIC, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think is 
relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive 
failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
My role is to assess whether I think QIC made a mistake, or treated Mr H unfairly, such that 
it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything he and QIC 
have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by 
this outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my decision.
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mr Hs boundary wall. However, theres 
disagreement between him, QIC and its appointed agent about the cause of the damage and 
the correct outcome of this claim. 
Mr H would like QIC to cover the damage to his wall because he feels it was caused by 
adverse weather. His policy with QIC provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils 
that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. But, for 
a claim to be successful, Mr H would have to show that the damage hes claiming for was 
caused by one of the perils listed in his policy.
As explained by our investigator, there are three conditions that need to be met before this 
service would say a claim for storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mr Hs complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in mind. 
And I should also clarify that all three questions must be answered affirmatively for this 
service to be able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mr Hs policy clearly outlines that it will cover 
loss or damage caused by storm winds of Force 10 or above (as defined under the 
internationally recognised Beaufort Scale). This equates to winds speeds of at least 55 
mph. So, Ive kept this storm definition in mind when deciding whether there were storm 
conditions on or around the date of Mr Hs claim.
Ive checked the weather reports relevant to Mr Hs locality for storm conditions in the month 
leading up to the date his wall was damaged. These show that at around a month prior to 
damage occurring the highest wind speeds recorded were 32 mph. Subsequent to that date 
all wind speeds recorded were less than that.
I dont doubt what Mr H has said about there being strong winds at the time his wall was 
damaged. But the weather recorded doesnt meet QICs definition of a storm. And this 
means I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that storm conditions existed at 
around the date of the damage. 
As Ive been unable to answer question one affirmatively, I cant fairly conclude that the 
damage to Mr Hs boundary wall was caused by a one-off identifiable storm event as his 
policy requires. And this means I cant reasonably direct QIC to pay his claim for storm 
damage.Overall, I think the adverse weather conditions that Mr H experienced exposed the 
underlying deterioration of his boundary wall and caused it to worsen afterwards. I say this 
because boundary walls are built to withstand adverse weather and the surveyor QIC 
appointed comprehensively explained in its reports how it thinks the damage occurred. It 
believes the damage here was caused by a combination of gradual wear and tear to the 
brickwork and mortar and the fact that incorrect bricks were used to construct the wall. 
I know Mr H disagrees with this but theres cogent evidence that this is what caused the 
damage to his wall. And the photographs Ive seen support this. I cant ignore that evidence. 
Ive carefully considered the content of the report Mr H provided from a builder that 
inspected his wall. But I havent seen anything within that report that contradicts the 
surveyors opinion about the cause of damage here.
QIC told Mr H the damage being claimed for is excluded under his policy, as it looks to have 
happened gradually over time. Ive carefully considered the terms and conditions of his 
policy and can see it does exclude damage of this nature. This is in common with most 
home insurance policies because insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen. And 
something wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
Mr H believes the damage to his wall ought to be covered under the accidental damage 
section of his policy. However, Im not persuaded by this argument. I say this because 
accidental damage is defined in Mr Hs policy as sudden, unexpected and physical 
damage. As already explained, this damage occurred gradually. So, it cant be said to be 
sudden and unexpected.
In the overall circumstances, Im not persuaded QIC made an error in attributing the cause of 
the damage here to a gradual cause. As thats something that isnt covered under the terms 
and conditions of Mr Hs insurance policy, I cant fairly ask QIC to approve his claim. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed with this decision. I know he feels very strongly about the 
issues raised in this complaint. And I appreciate the reasons why he brought this complaint 
to our service. But for the reasons outlined Im satisfied QIC has acted fairly and reasonably. 
So, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman