DRN-2655280
The complaint
Mr D complains about the falling value of an investment fund linked to his life assurance 
policy, now managed by ReAssure Limited. Mr D feels theres been a mistake thats caused 
the funds value to drop faster in recent years. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer to ReAssure below to mean ReAssure Limited, and the 
companies that managed Mr Ds policy before them.
What happened
Mr Ds had his policy since 1995. In 2015, he stopped paying the monthly premium. Because 
of this, ReAssure treated the policy as paid up. Under the policys terms, this meant the 
investment fund would be used to pay for Mr Ds life assurance, until it ran out of money. 
In February 2019, Mr D received an annual summary for his investment. He did some 
calculations  multiplying the number of units his investment held each February by the unit 
sale price for each year. He saw that the investments value had dropped by very different 
amounts over the years from 2015 to 2019, with the most recent drop being the largest.
Mr D complained. He thought too much had been taken from his investment. ReAssure 
replied, explaining that with the policy paid up, the investment funds were being used to pay 
for the cost of life assurance. That cost, they said, had gone up because Mr D had got older. 
Mr D felt this didnt answer his questions, so he brought the matter to us. Our investigator 
explained how the policy and investment worked, which Mr Ds said he understands. Our 
investigator didnt see any mistake in what ReAssure was doing. But Mr D still feels theres a 
mistake. So the complaints come to me for a formal review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see our investigator has given a good explanation of how Mr Ds 
policy works, and how that links to the terms and conditions he agreed when he took it out. 
Mr Ds said he understands that explanation, and I cant add a lot to it. So Im not going to go 
over it again in detail.
In summary though, ReAssure were acting within the terms of the policy when they made it 
paid up, after Mr D stopped paying the premium. It was also within the terms to then sell off 
some of the investment each time money was needed to provide life cover under the policy. 
As ReAssure are doing what the policy said they would do, I cant see theyve acted 
unreasonably. 
Turning to Mr Ds specific point about his investments value, I can see how his calculation 
seems to show more being taken from his investment each year, rising from hundreds to 
thousands of pounds. But I find the issue here isnt a mistake by ReAssure. 
Each month after Mr D stopped paying his premiums, ReAssure sold some of the units in his 
investment to pay for life cover. That decreased the value of the investment. 
The units that werent sold stayed in the investment fund. In years when the sale price for 
the units went up, Mr D would use that higher price to value the units still in the investment. 
In that way, an increase in the unit sale price increased the potential value of the investment.
Mr Ds calculation takes this increase in the investments value and offsets it against some of 
the decrease caused by selling units to buy life cover each month. The years where Mr D 
sees the investment decreasing by hundreds of pounds, not thousands, are ones where the 
unit sale price has risen a lot. The more recent years, where the investment has gone down 
by thousands of pounds, are ones where the unit sale price hasnt risen as much, or at all. 
The decreases Mr Ds calculated in his investment are a combination of the factors below:
The investments value decreased when it sold units. It needed to sell units to pay for 
life cover because there werent any premiums being paid to do that. 
The cost of that life cover increased each year.
The potential value of the units left in the investment increased when the unit sale 
price went up. 
But the potential value also dropped when the unit sale price went down. 
And the unit sale price didnt change at a constant rate.
 
None of these are mistakes by ReAssure. In this case, the life cover cost more as the value 
of Mr Ds investment dropped, and as Mr D got older and so more likely to claim against the 
policy. The changes in unit sale price reflect that the investments performance isnt 
guaranteed. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. ReAssure Limited dont look to have made a 
mistake  or acted unreasonably  when administering his policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman