DRN-3024121
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Aviva Insurance Limited failed to tell them about a cheaper 
equivalent to their home insurance policy.
Both Mr and Mrs P are named policyholders on their Aviva policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mr P, Ill refer mainly to Mr P from here onward.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P first took out a Home Plus policy with Aviva in April 2003. Mr P says a 
subsidence problem  for which he made a claim in or around 2003  made it difficult to find 
alternative insurance with the same level of cover. He renewed his Aviva policy each year.
Mr P said he queried the cost of his policy in both 2014 and 2016. He says Aviva told him in 
2014 that he wasnt eligible for a multi-cover discount due to his previous subsidence claim, 
then in March 2016 suggested he increase his voluntary excess to reduce his premium. Mr P 
increased the excess on his policy for his 2016 renewal.
In 2019, Aviva withdrew its Home Plus policy. It moved Mr P to a new home insurance 
policy, Home Direct, which cost almost £1,000 less than his previous policy. Mr P is unhappy 
Aviva didnt tell him sooner about this alternative product. He says the new product offered 
equivalent protection at a much lower price and believes hes been charged vastly 
excessive premiums as a result. Hed like Aviva to refund the difference between the two 
policies, plus interest.
Aviva wouldnt do this. It told Mr P that the Aviva Direct policy was a totally different 
product. It said there were differences in cover  specifically, accidental damage and 
personal belongings cover  and underwriting systems, both of which affected the premium.
Mr P doesnt accept that. He says: I feel that since I telephoned Aviva about the premium in 
2014 and 2016 they should at the very least have reviewed things at that time, if not before, 
and moved us onto a fairer premium. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He didnt think 
the two products were directly comparable  in his opinion, they were different policies with 
different pricing structures  and didnt think Aviva had mispriced his Home Plus policy. So 
he didnt think Aviva needed to refund any of Mr Ps premiums.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators recommendation, so the case was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2021. I said:
Mr P has made it clear that he isnt disputing the pricing of his original policy. His complaint 
is there was an alternative, cheaper product available: Aviva failed to make me aware that I 
could have been paying nearly £1,000 less by switching to its Home Direct policy.
Mr P moved onto the Home Direct policy when the Home Plus product was discontinued in 
2019. Aviva told us the new Home Direct product was first introduced in April 2016. I see 
from Avivas records that Mr P called to discuss his renewal on 30 March 2016, so I think the 
Home Direct product was first available to Mr P at his renewal in 2016. This means the 
renewals I need to consider are those in 2016, 2017, and 2018. 
We asked Aviva why Mr P wasnt switched onto Home Direct in 2016 and whether it told Mr 
P about the new product. It told us: 
In this case Aviva had taken the decision to remove the Home Plus policy from our 
range and as such ALL customers with that product were invited to obtain a quotation 
for either an alternative Aviva product or from an alternative provider in the market 
place. We couldnt insist on them remaining with Aviva, it has to be their choice.
I think thats fair enough. But it also said it didnt tell Mr P about the new product when he 
called to discuss his renewal in March 2016, or when it was launched the following month.
Insurers must be clear and transparent and treat their customers fairly. It isnt their 
responsibility to automatically move a customer onto a cheaper product, but they do have to 
be clear, fair, and not misleading in discussions with customers. I accept that Mr P bought 
his insurance on a non-advised basis. But in this case I think it could reasonably be argued 
that not telling Mr P about the new Home Direct product when he called to discuss his 
renewal in March 2016 was misleading. 
Aviva also says the Home Direct policy was a totally different product, with different rating 
factors, and as such cannot be considered as a like for like comparison. It specifically 
referred to differences in accidental damage and personal belongings cover, which it said 
were standard under the old policy.
Im not sure thats right. Unless Im reading Mr Ps 2018 policy booklet and schedule wrong, 
those were optional under Home Plus. Section K of the Buildings section and section Q of 
the Contents section  which refer to accidental damage  and the Personal Belongings 
section of the Home Plus policy booklet all say: This extension to cover applies only if it is 
shown on your schedule. Mr Ps policy schedule includes a separate premium for personal 
belongings and explicitly says Mr P has chosen accidental damage for both buildings and 
contents (This cover has been selected). 
Ive looked at both product booklets and tend to agree with Mr P, who says the cover is 
broadly comparable. As noted above, accidental damage and personal belongings cover is 
optional on both policies. The new policy includes blanket cover for buildings and contents, 
so I dont think Mr Ps cover is any lower under Home Direct. I also note that this was the 
alternative product offered to Mr P when Home Plus was discontinued, which itself suggests 
the new product was comparable. So I dont think the cover Mr P now has through the Home 
Direct policy is significantly different to his previous policy.
Mr P is clearly an engaged customer. Avivas records show he discussed a cheaper quote 
from another insurer with Aviva back in 2007, and he increased his excess to reduce his 
premium in 2016. Its clear to me that Mr P looked to shop around but  rightly or wrongly  
felt prevented from doing so because of his previous subsidence claim.
I think its reasonable to conclude that if Mr P had known about the new Home Direct policy 
in 2016, hed have switched to it. I accept that Aviva wasnt required to switch him 
automatically, but I think it should have told him about the new product when he called to 
discuss how to reduce his premium in March 2016.For these reasons, I think Aviva acted unfairly. At this stage, I think Aviva should refund the 
difference between his Home Plus premiums and what his premiums would have been 
under the new Home Direct policy for 2016, 2017, and 2018. Aviva should add interest to 
these refunds at 8% simple per year.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs P accepted my provisional decision and had nothing to add.
Aviva disagreed with me. It said, in summary:
The two products werent directly comparable. Specifically: 
oAccidental damage was included as standard for both buildings and contents 
under Mr Ps old policy; it wasnt standard in his new policy. 
oMr P added personal belongings to his old policy and was charged an extra 
premium for this; he didnt add this to his new policy.
It introduced the new product in June 2017, not April 2016.
Aviva acknowledged that it had previously told us the new product was introduced in 
April 2017.
However, it provided evidence from its underwriters confirming that the new product 
was launched in a limited manner in June [2017] before being fully rolled out later 
that year.
This meant the earliest Mr P could have switched to the new product would have 
been April 2018.
Aviva made a new offer following my initial findings. It said it was prepared to refund the 
difference between what Mr P paid for his home insurance in April 2018 (£1,359.71) and 
what the new product would have cost him in April 2018. 
Aviva told us its pricing team wasnt able to recalculate the April 2018 premium with any 
certainty, however the premium was unlikely to have been less than what the customer paid 
at inception in 2019. Therefore our offer is based on what the consumer paid in 2019, 
£365.63. This means Avivas offer is £994.08, plus simple interest at 8% per year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont agree with Avivas argument about the differences between the two products for the 
same reasons I set out in my provisional decision. 
Mr Ps 2018 policy booklet and schedule explicitly say that accidental damage and personal 
belongings were optional under Home Plus. Section K of the Buildings section and section 
Q of the Contents section  which refer to accidental damage  and the Personal 
Belongings section of the Home Plus policy booklet all say: This extension to cover applies 
only if it is shown on your schedule [my emphasis]. Mr Ps policy schedule includes a 
separate premium for personal belongings and explicitly says Mr P has chosen accidental 
damage for both buildings and contents. So I still think the two policies were broadly 
comparable.
However, my provisional decision was based on my understanding that Aviva introduced the 
new Home Direct home insurance product in April 2016. Given Avivas new evidence, Im 
satisfied that this was wrong, and Avivas new home insurance product wasnt introduced until June 2017. 
This means my key finding  that Aviva was aware it was about to introduce a new home 
insurance product when Mr P called to discuss his policy renewal in March 2016  was 
wrong. 
So I agree with Aviva that it couldnt have discussed the new product with Mr P in March 
2016. I also agree that Mr P wouldnt have been able to switch to the new product until April 
2018 at the earliest. It follows that it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Aviva to refund the 
difference in Mr Ps premiums for either 2016 or 2017.
Aviva has offered to refund the difference in premium for 2018. Its calculation shows this 
would be £994.08, plus interest. In the circumstances, I think this offer is fair. 
Weve explained the situation to Mr P. He understands why Ive changed my proposed 
redress and why I think Avivas offer is fair. He told us that he accepts Avivas offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Refund Mr and Mrs P £994.08 to reflect the difference between what they paid for 
their home insurance in April 2018 and what they would likely have paid under the 
new Aviva home insurance product.
Add interest to this amount at 8% simple per year from 1 April 2018 to the date of 
settlement.
*If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman