The complaint
Mr M complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited is responsible for poor service 
in connection with a motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M disclosed a speeding offence when he took out a comprehensive motor policy. 
Advantage was the insurer responsible for dealing with claims. 
An accident on 14 May 2019 caused damage to Mr Ms car. Advantage queried whether Mr 
M had disclosed the speeding offence. It then arranged repair of his car.
Mr M complained about delay, lack of updates and a problem with the cars internal lighting.
Advantage sent a final response dated 16 August 2019. It apologised for the lack of updates 
and it sent a cheque for £100.00.
Unhappy with that, Mr M brought his complaint to us the same day.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that he 
wouldnt expect the insurer to have done anything further or differently.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The initial assessment didnt pick up the seat belt defect.
The garage said it recorded all calls  but now says it didnt.
The garage promised time and time again the car would be ready.
The garage said it needed one particular part to repair the seats. But it needed more
parts.
The head mechanic from the garage said they seem to have problems with high end
cars.
Advantage no longer uses the repairer - obviously due to its lack of communication
and incompetence.
The whole situation was stressful and he feels totally mistreated.
He was paying £350.00 per month for his car.
The courtesy car was not a like- for- like car. It was filthy with no water in the wipers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1118464reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The speeding offence
Advantage shouldve known that Mr M had disclosed the speeding offence. So Advantage 
shouldnt have queried non-disclosure. I accept that this caused Mr M some upset. But 
Advantage apologised to Mr M within a few hours. And I'm satisfied that its apology was 
enough to put this right.
The Courtesy Car
For about two months Mr M had a courtesy car. He wouldve preferred his own car or 
something more similar.
But the policy didnt entitle him to a like-for-like courtesy car.
He has recently complained that the courtesy car had run out of screen wash. I dont think 
he has previously raised this with Advantage. And in any event the lack of screen wash 
would be resolved easily and cheaply.
Delay
Mr M didnt get his car back until 12 July 2019. So it was with the repairer for almost two 
months. 
But the car was high quality and the damage and the repairs were extensive. And I havent 
seen any evidence of unexplained unproductive gaps in progress.
One or more seatbelt pre-tensioners needed repairing. Mr M says the repairer shouldve 
noticed that issue at the outset rather than on 5 July 2019. 
But Advantage says the issue came to light during a post-repair diagnostic check that day. 
And it had to wait for parts from the vehicle manufacturer.
Advantage has said it no longer uses the repairer. But I dont accept that this is evidence 
that the repairer fell below a reasonable standard in Mr Ms case.
Mr M hasnt offered any expert opinion from anyone qualified in vehicle repairs. For that 
reason I'm not persuaded that the initial inspection was below a reasonable standard or that 
the repair took more than a reasonable time.
The lack of updates
Mr M felt he had to chase the repairer for updates. 
His recollection is that the repairer made promises it didnt keep. But he hasnt provided 
much detail of this. And there are no call recordings available to me. 
Mr Ms recollection is likely to be influenced by the events around 5 July 2019. And I find it 
likely that the repairer said that, before it would be ready for collection, the vehicle had to 
pass a final check  which it didnt. So Im not persuaded that the repairer made promises it 
didnt keep.
I find £100.00 fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by shortcomings in providing updates.The lighting
After collecting the car, Mr M told the repairer that the ambient lighting wasnt working. Mr M 
says he didnt have the time to take the car back in and instead he got a friend fix the 
lighting.
I have no reason to doubt that the repairer wouldve attended to the lighting if Mr M had 
taken the car back in. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to do anything 
further in that respect.
Conclusion
Overall I can see that Mr M suffered inconvenience. But I dont find that Advantage fell below 
a reasonable standard or caused that inconvenience  save for some shortcomings in 
communication for which I consider that £100.00 was fair and reasonable compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do anything further in response to this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman