DRN-3806706
The complaint
Mr H complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) unfairly declined two 
claims he made on his buildings insurance policy.
Reference to AA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr H holds a buildings insurance policy with AA. In October 2021 he noticed what he 
described as a flood in his basement. Water had entered and stayed there. So, he made a 
claim to AA. AA declined this claim saying there was no insured event as thered been no 
flood.
In May 2022, the issue reoccurred, and Mr H made a further claim. AA declined the claim 
again saying thered been no flood. But it also said the damage had been caused over time 
and therefore wasnt covered by Mr Hs policy. It says Mr H knew there was a problem with 
water ingress from the October claim, but hadnt done anything to fix the problem.
Unhappy, Mr H complained. AA didnt change its stance so Mr H brought his complaint here.
One of our investigators recommended it be upheld. She said flood wasnt defined in the 
policy and there was no sign of existing damage when the first claim was made. So, she 
thought that claim should have been covered. And, had that claim been covered she thought 
it likely the second claim wouldnt have been made. She recommended AA reimburse Mr H 
for the repairs and pay him £400 compensation.
Mr H agreed with our investigator, AA didnt. So, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mr Hs policy covers him for damage caused by a flood. And for damage caused by 
an escape of water. Flood isnt defined in the policy. We generally think its fair, 
where not defined in the policy to describe a flood as a slow and steady build-up of 
water entering the property. This doesnt have to be a sudden or violent event, or 
something caused by a natural event. And I think the October claim meets that 
definition. So, Im satisfied an insured event occurred.
The report carried out during that first claim isnt very detailed. But it says the claim 
could be declined if the reason for the water ingress to the property was due to a 
natural rise in the surface water level. It doesnt say this was the cause.
Mr H said this had never happened before. And when he made the second claim it 
was found that there was a leak in a pipe serving the gulley  which was the likely 
cause of the water in Mr Hs property.
AA says Mr H knew there was a leak since October but didnt nothing about it. But I 
dont think this is fair. He made a claim in October and was told by AA it wasnt 
covered. I think he was reasonably entitled to rely on that information even if he was 
unhappy with it. Mr Hs policy with AA says AA will pay up to £5,000 in advance to 
costs it agrees to locate the problem. But its engineer during the October claim didnt 
locate the problem. Had they done so, I think the claim would likely have been 
covered, and the second claim wouldnt have been made, as the second flood 
wouldnt have occurred. I appreciate the first report says no leaks were found by the 
local water supplier, But Im still more persuaded that on balance the issue was likely 
caused by the same pipe issue identified in the second claim.
I dont find it fair for AA to rely on the gradually operating clause either. As mentioned 
above I think its unlikely the second flood would have occurred had the issue been 
spotted the first-time round. So, its then unfair to say that damage caused in the 
interim period isnt covered. Because it wouldnt have occurred had AA diagnosed 
the leaking pipe at the time of the first claim. And while the report at the time of the 
October claim isnt greatly detailed, it does indicate there is little damage. So I think 
it's more likely than not that most the damage claimed for in the second claim, was 
caused in the period between it, and the first claim.
I think £400 is a reasonable amount of compensation to pay Mr H in these 
circumstances. The first claim, in my opinion should have been covered, it not being 
will have caused distress and inconvenience. But as set out above, I think it more 
likely than not that the second flood wouldnt have occurred had the first claim been 
dealt with better. So this will have added to, and compounded any distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr H.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and require AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited to:
Reimburse Mr H the repair costs relating to this claim subject to any policy limits. 
Payment should also include 8% simple interest. Interest should be calculated for the 
date Mr H paid the invoice, to the date AA pay him.
Pay Mr H £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman