DRN-3173230
The complaint
Mr K complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mr K was given a loan by TFS as follows: 
Date Amount Monthly Term Monthly 
repaymentAPR Total 
amount 
payable Loan status
29/09/2014 £7,500 60 £275.76 43.9% £16,545.60 Paid 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ks complaint. He didnt think that TFS 
shouldve provided the loan to Mr K and he set out the steps that TFS needed to take 
to put things right. 
TFS disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said that Mr Ks negative credit history 
in terms of missed payments and defaults was quite some time (up to four years) before this 
application and it wouldnt be enough to say the loan shouldnt have been approved. Looking 
at the evidence provided, TFS said it did make a fair lending decision. TFS understood that 
Mr K earned more than the figure it used in its affordability assessment and with this 
affordability, it was justified against all of the payments received to the account accordingly.  
TFS said its checks were proportionate with a credit search and bank statements provided.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. There are some general 
principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about when deciding whether to 
uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and independently reached the same conclusions as our 
investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
TFS asked Mr K about his income and expenses and carried out credit checks - and it sent 
this information to us. So Ive been able to see information that TFS relied on when it agreed 
to provide this loan to Mr K. 
The income and expenditure assessments done by TFS suggested that the loan potentially 
looked affordable for Mr K. When looking at what he could afford, and allowing for his credit 
costs after debt consolidation, it worked out that Mr K should still have around £160 in 
disposable income after paying his TFS loan. So TFS felt this loan was affordable for Mr K.
But I dont think TFS thought carefully enough about what the information it had gathered 
showed about Mr Ks overall financial situation and the likelihood of him being able to pay its 
loan in a sustainable manner. And I dont think TFS made a fair lending decision when it lent 
to Mr K based on the information it had gathered.
I say this because, despite recording information that appeared to show that Mr K had 
enough spare cash each month to cover the loan monthly repayments, I think TFS 
shouldve realised that it couldnt rely on this information because what Mr K had 
declared was significantly at odds with what it saw on its credit checks showing Mr Ks 
credit history. 
Our investigator set out in some detail the evidence of defaulted accounts that TFS could 
see on the credit checks it obtained. He referred to the fact that between 2008 and the end 
of 2012, numerous accounts including mortgages had defaulted. The defaulted amount 
shown on the credit report was over £100,000. Some defaults had since been settled, but there was extensive evidence apparent that Mr K had largely struggled to maintain his 
payments to his creditors in the past. And he had three county court judgements, including 
one recorded in June 2014, just three months before TFS agreed to lend to him. The amount 
of that judgement was £431 and our investigator pointed out that this amount was less than 
two of the scheduled monthly payments on the loan it was providing. Our investigator felt 
that TFS wasnt able to say in these circumstances that Mr K was in a position where it could 
safely say it looked likely hed be able to sustainably afford the repayments on this loan for 
the next five years.
I think TFS should have realised that what it saw on its credit checks was seriously at odds 
with what Mr K had declared. And like our investigator, I think this credit history strongly 
suggested Mr K was already having serious money problems. 
To my mind, it shouldve been apparent to TFS that Mr K probably didnt have the amount of 
disposable income that its calculations suggested, or indeed any spare cash at all  all the 
signs were that his finances were, in reality, under significant stress and his debt had already 
become unmanageable. I agree with our investigator that TFS shouldve realised that Mr K 
was not in a position to sustainably repay another high-cost loan with repayments of around 
£275 each month, when he seemed to be already over-stretched financially and unable to 
pay his existing outstanding financial commitments. 
And there was nothing to indicate that his financial situation would be significantly improved 
by taking out this loan with TFS. I've taken into account that TFS believed the main purpose 
of the loan was to consolidate some of Mr Ks debt but this doesnt affect my view overall 
that TFS didnt make a fair lending decision.
I dont think using this loan to repay existing debt was enough to give TFS sufficient reason 
to think this wouldve improved Mr Ks overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant and 
sustainable improvement in his financial situation, given his outstanding indebtedness 
overall. And based on all the information TFS had gathered, I dont think it was reasonably 
able to say that the loan was likely to be sustainable affordable for Mr K. 
So I dont think I can reasonably say that it made a fair lending decision based on the 
information in front of it. 
As Mr K has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what TFS did wrong. So, I think TFS needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that TFS should pay any additional redress. Mr K hasnt 
commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think TFS acted unfairly 
towards Mr K in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr K to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has been charged extra for a loan that 
should not have been provided to him. 
In line with this Services approach, Mr K shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. 
If TFS has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below and do the following:add up the total amount of money Mr K received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Mr K made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr K having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr K bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions 
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ks credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman