DRN-3306309
The complaint
Mr H and Ms F complain Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc handled their home 
insurance claim poorly. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mr H and Ms F made a subsidence claim against their Ecclesiastical home 
insurance policy. Cracks had appeared on an outbuilding, a converted garage. The door was 
difficult to open. Ecclesiasticals engineers monitored the property for evidence of 
subsidence. Ecclesiastical concluded there wasnt clear evidence of historical or current 
subsidence. Mr H and Ms Fs own engineer felt the likely cause of damage was a poor 
standard of conversion of the building  not subsidence. 
Mr H and Ms F accepted the damage wasnt covered by the policy as subsidence. However 
they were unhappy with Ecclesiasticals decision to record the claim, internally and 
externally, as subsidence. They are concerned this means they will need to declare the 
claim for the next 25 years - despite subsidence not being the cause of damage. They say 
this will unfairly limit their choice of insurers, significantly increase the cost of cover and 
potentially affect the value of their home. 
Ecclesiastical responded to a complaint from Mr H and Ms F. It provided a letter for them to 
show to future insurers to inform them of the outcome of the claim. It amended their renewed 
policy premium, refunding an amount charged because of an open subsidence claim. But 
Ecclesiastical didnt change the claim record. It said it would remain recorded as a 
declined subsidence claim. It did accept it had caused Mr H and Ms F some unnecessary 
inconvenience, offering £100 compensation in recognition.  
Mr H and Ms F werent satisfied with Ecclesiasticals response, so they came to this service. 
They say, by not proving clear information about the implications of a subsidence claim, it 
caused them detriment  including having to pay more for their home insurance. 
Mr H and Ms F are also unhappy with how Ecclesiastical handled their claim  including its 
use of third-party contractors and decision to pay unnecessary claim costs.  
In January 2021 our investigator considered Mr H and Ms Fs complaint. She said 
Ecclesiastical had recorded the claim fairly. She didnt agree it should have provided clearer 
information about the possible consequences of a subsidence claim. She felt 
Ecclesiasticals offer of £100 compensation was fair and reasonable. So she didn't 
recommend it do anything differently. Mr H and Ms F didn't accept that assessment, so the 
complaint was passed to me to consider. 
In March 2022 I issued a provisional decision. Its reasoning forms part of this final decision, 
so Ive copied it in below. In it I explained why I didnt intend to require Ecclesiastical to pay 
Mr H and Ms F any compensation or do anything differently. Mr H had said, if HSB had 
provided clear information about the claim process, he wouldnt have made a claim. I 
explained why I wasnt persuaded of that. 
I also set out why I didnt think it most likely Mr H and Ms F would be in a better position 
financially if they hadnt made a claim. I explained why I didnt agree Ecclesiasticals record 
of the claim was unfair. I said I felt the compensation it had paid already was enough to 
recognise the impact of any poor service. 
Finally I invited Ecclesiastical and Mr H and Ms F to provide any further information they 
would like me to consider before coming to a final decision. Ecclesiastical didnt respond. 
Mr H and Ms F were disappointed by my provisional decision. They provided some 
comments and objections. 
what Ive provisionally decided and why 
Mr H and Ms F have provided a range of information. They have made a number of 
points. As this is an informal service, I havent responded to everything here. Instead 
Ive focused on what I consider to be the most pertinent and significant issues and 
evidence. But Id like to reassure them Ive considered everything they have 
provided.  
Mr H and Ms F say Ecclesiastical should have advised them, when they first made 
contact about the claim, that even a declined subsidence claim would affect their 
insurance for the next 25 years. But I dont agree with Mr H and Ms F on this. 
In my experience insurers ask if a property, or surrounding area, has ever suffered 
from subsidence. Some limit the time to 25 years. But this type of question isnt 
usually asking about claims for subsidence. Instead potential policyholders are being 
asked about suspected or confirmed subsidence. 
If Mr H and Ms F are satisfied there wasnt any subsidence at their property, they 
would likely respond to a similar question in the negative. Indeed Ive seen they 
confirmed, for a recent insurance application, their property has been free from 
subsidence for the last 25 years. 
However, its standard practice for insurers to ask potential policyholders about, and 
to consider, claims made during the previous three to five years. Mr H and Ms F have 
understandably declared this claim when trying to arrange cover. They operate a 
business from their home, so say they already experienced many insurers being 
unwilling to offer them cover. 
Mr H and Ms F say the claim record has reduced the already limited pool, increasing 
the cost of cover. Their latest policy cost more than twice what they paid 
Ecclesiastical before the claim. They feel the subsidence claim record is responsible 
for that. And they say thats unfair as they only have one because of Ecclesiastical 
failure to provide clear information. 
If I thought Mr H and Ms F had lost out because of Ecclesiasticals mistake I might 
require it to take steps to put things right. That could potentially involve it paying an 
amount of money to reflect the impact of an unfair claim record over three to five 
years. But for me to think that would be a fair resolution Id need to be persuaded of 
the following outcomes. 
Id need to agree that Ecclesiastical made a mistake by failing to provide certain 
information to Mr H and Ms F when they first made contact about the claim. Id then 
need to accept that, if it hadnt made that mistake, Mr H and Ms F would most likely have withdrawn their claim. And finally, without the claim record, they would have 
been better off financially.
In February 2020 Mr H called Ecclesiastical to report a potential subsidence issue. 
Ive seen a transcript of the call. Ecclesiastical explained it would arrange an 
engineer to investigate. It explained for subsidence a £1,000 excess is payable. It 
said thats higher than for other insured perils. It didnt explain an additional £125 
voluntary excess was also applicable. 
Immediately after Ecclesiastical explained exclusions might apply to decline a claim. 
It gave faulty workmanship as an example. It said if it were found the building had 
inadequate foundations, for example, there might not be any cover. It said as part of 
that discussion it would look to make sure the building was built to the right 
specifications. There was then a discussion about Mr H and Ms Fs buildings 
foundations possibly only meeting the requirement of the era in which it was originally 
constructed. 
Mr H says if the policy excess and impact of a failed subsidence claim had been 
explained he would have withdrawn it and arranged for his own engineer (that cost 
being similar to the excess anyway) to attend. He says it would have turned out, as it 
did, the problem wasnt subsidence. And without a claim record they would have 
been in a better position.   
To support their argument Mr H and Ms F referred to a previous discussion with an 
insurer regarding a leak. In that experience the insurer told them the policy excess 
and explained premiums would be affected by a claim. As a result they didnt 
proceed with the claim - having calculated it made financial sense to arrange their 
own repair.
Mr H says he would have done the same for this claim had he been fully informed. 
The excess is around the same as the cost of an engineers report. He would have 
avoided the consequences of a decline subsidence claim record. And if subsidence 
had been found he could have gone back to claim with Ecclesiastical.
 
But Im satisfied, from the transcript, that Mr H was aware of the policy excess. Even 
if I agreed Ecclesiastical made a mistake by not informing him of the possible 
consequences of a declined subsidence claim, I wouldnt be persuaded it caused 
Mr H and Ms F to lose out financially. 
Firstly Im not persuaded Mr H would most likely have acted in the way he now says 
he would. He carried on with the claim after being told about the excess. Its possible, 
but it seems unlikely to me, he would at that point be aware of the likely cost of an 
engineer. It seems, from his account of the earlier claim, he was already aware that a 
claim record could impact the future cost of insurance. So being advised of that by 
Ecclesiastical probably wouldnt come as significant news to him. Mr H was also 
aware, from the discussion, of the possibility of a claim being refused. 
I accept Mr H dealt with his propertys leak  but in my experience thats a less 
complex, involved and daunting task than taking on responsibility for suspected 
subsidence. So on balance Im not persuaded he would have withdrawn the claim.  
I also cant say if Mr H and Ms F hadnt proceeded with the claim they would be in a 
better position financially. Its difficult to know for certain the impact of the claim 
record. As explained above it didnt in the year following the claim. After that Mr H and Ms F paid a different insurer about £350 more for cover. Ecclesiastical had 
withdrawn from the market. 
Its difficult to know how much of that increase was due to the claim alone. If I 
attributed the vast majority to the claim (which may not be correct) the impact would 
be about £300. In my experience the impact reduces over the years. Even if I thought 
the decrease to be only about one third per year, the five-year cumulative impact of 
the subsidence claim record might be about £750.    
Even if there wasnt a claim there would still be a notification of loss record. That 
might be recorded as something like suspected subsidence. And insurers usually 
ask potential policyholders about any losses in the last three or five years. 
Mr H and Ms F say they wouldnt need to report the matter as a loss. But Im not 
persuaded thats necessarily correct - even if the only remedial action Mr H took 
himself was to touch up a few cracks. 
Their own engineer concluded the building had long standing and more recent 
distortion/damage due to its poor standard of conversion. It was found to have 
shallow foundations. Thats something some insurers may want to know about. So 
even without a claim record the problem may well have limited their choice of 
insurers and resulted in an increase in premiums.
Im also not persuaded the only cost to Mr H and Ms F would have been engineer 
fees of about £1,000. I accept they paid their engineer about that for his work. Ive 
read his report and correspondence with Ecclesiastical. It seems he, following a site 
visit, felt there was evidence of downward movement. So he suspected there might 
be subsidence. To reach his own final conclusion he relied upon site investigation 
data provided by Ecclesiasticals engineers.  
So it seems likely Mr H and Ms F probably would have incurred additional 
investigation costs to discount subsidence as the cause. Ecclesiastical spent about 
£1,500 on testing and monitoring. In addition to that Mr H and Ms F may have had to 
pay the £1,200 Ecclesiastical incurred for repairs to their drains. So for the reasons 
set out above Im not persuaded they would be better off financially if they had 
withdrawn the claim. 
In summary Im not persuaded the consequences of a declined subsidence claim are 
as significant as Mr H and Ms F have claimed. I dont think Mr H and Ms F would 
most likely have withdrawn the claim if Ecclesiastical had explained the possible 
impact. And even if they had I cant say they probably would be better off 
anyway.    
Ive considered if Ecclesiasticals record of the claim is fair.  Ive seen how it 
appears on CUE  an insurance industry database. Under Cause it says 
Subsidence, Heave Landslip. It currently shows a status of open with a payment 
total of £0.  Ecclesiastical says when this complaint is finalised the record will show 
payment of around £4,000. The status will be repudiated. 
Mr H and Ms F feel its unfair to record or refer to subsidence when it wasnt the 
cause.  Ecclesiasticals says the cause of the claim was concern about subsidence. 
It was investigated as subsidence, so the claim should remain coded under that peril. 
As the record will show the claim as declined, I think Ecclesiasticals position is 
reasonable. Having considered everything Mr H and Ms F have said, I cant say 
Ecclesiasticals recorded the claim unfairly. So I dont intend to require Ecclesiastical to amend the claim record or to 
compensate Mr H and Ms F for any impact it has on the cost of their insurance. 
Mr H and Ms F have raised other complaint points. They feel the claim costs incurred 
by Ecclesiastical are too high. Having considered its breakdown and explanation for 
the costs I cant say there was any significant and unnecessary expenditure. 
Mr H and Ms F complained about Ecclesiastical using contractors to perform the 
claim investigation. In my experience thats a common procedure for insurers. I dont 
think it was unfair or unreasonable for Ecclesiastical to make that choice. 
Mr H and Ms F spent more than £1,000 on their own engineers fees. They say this 
was necessary as they were in dispute with Ecclesiastical. Having considered 
everything, Im not persuaded it acted so unreasonably that it was necessary for 
them to appoint their own engineer. So I dont intend to require it to reimburse that 
cost.  
According to Mr H and Ms F Ecclesiastical didnt act in good faith or in their best 
interests. They feel it handled the claim poorly in general. Ive reflected on their 
comments. But having considered the claim records, their correspondence with 
Ecclesiastical and so on Im not persuaded it did act in those ways. 
Overall it seems to have investigated and dealt with the claim reasonably. I realise 
they will disagree, but its communication with Mr H and Ms F seems fair and 
appropriate. There may be some examples where it could have done better. But the 
£100 compensation already offered is enough to recognise the impact of those. So I 
dont intend to require Ecclesiastical to pay Mr H and Ms F any compensation or do 
anything differently.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H and Ms F provided a number of objections to my provisional decision. As this is an 
informal service, I havent responded to everything here. Instead Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the most pertinent and significant. But Id like to reassure them Ive 
considered everything they said.
Mr H and Ms F said Id failed to consider the potential loss of value resulting from a need to 
declare the claim when selling the property. I accept its possible that might have an impact 
on the value of the property. But even if there hadnt been a claim Mr H and Ms F would be 
aware the garage had damage related to its shallow foundations, poor conversion and so on. 
And that seems like something it might be reasonable to declare to a buyer. 
So they would be declaring the same defect either way. I havent seen anything to persuade 
me the involvement of a claim would result in a larger loss of value. The defect and 
consideration for the buyer would seem to be the same. 
Mr H and Ms F provided further points to explain why they wouldnt, in possession of clearer 
information, have pursued a claim. Ive considered those but ultimately it doesnt make a 
difference to the outcome. As I said, to find Ecclesiastical had caused them a loss, Id also 
need to be persuaded they would be better off financially without the claim. I note their point that their engineers bill would have been lower than the £1,000 they paid, if 
Ecclesiastical hadnt required him to provide a written report. Even with lower engineering 
fees they would likely have incurred some of the other costs Ecclesiasticals paid  including 
for testing, monitoring and drain repairs. Mr H and Ms F say those investigations added little 
value for them. However, as I explained in my provisional decision their engineer relied on 
the resulting data to reach his own conclusion. 
So Im still not persuaded that without a claim they would be better off financially. Thats 
based on my estimate of the cumulative premium increase and the policys subsidence claim 
excess. 
In my provisional decision I said I wasnt persuaded Ecclesiastical had acted in bad faith 
during the claim. In response Mr H and Ms F highlighted its agents frequently made 
unrecorded mobile phone calls, rather than using recorded landlines, to contact them. They 
feel its not good practice for calls to be made from a facility on which they arent recorded. 
Mr H and Ms F feel issues consistently occurred when calls came from mobiles.
I dont think its inherently poor practice for an insurer or its agent to call a policyholder from a 
mobile. There may be practical reasons for doing so. That seems particularly likely for a loss 
adjuster or claims handler who makes frequent site visits. I said in my provisional decision 
there may be examples where Ecclesiasticals communication could have been better. But I 
still havent seen enough to persuade me it acted in bad faith or didnt handle the claim 
reasonably overall. 
So Im not going to require Ecclesiastical to pay Mr H and Ms F any compensation or do 
anything differently.      
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc to pay 
Mr H and Ms F any compensation or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman