DRN-3551709
Complaint
Mrs W has complained that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (Bank of Ireland) irresponsibly 
provided her with an unaffordable loan.
Background
Bank of Ireland provided Mrs W with a Post Office Money branded personal loan for 
£20,000.00 in October 2019. The loan had an APR of 11.9% and the total amount of 
£27,627.84, which included interest of £7,627.84, was due to be repaid in 72 monthly 
payments of just over £380. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ws complaint. She thought that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have shown the loan to be unaffordable and so Bank of Ireland 
shouldnt have provided Mrs W with this loan. 
Bank of Ireland disagreed with our investigators assessment and so the case was passed to 
an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive considered this while deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think that there are two overarching 
questions that I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ws complaint. These questions are:    
Did Bank of Ireland carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mrs W would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would such checks have shown that Mrs W would have been able to do 
so?
Did Bank of Ireland act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs W in some other way?
 
Ill consider each of these questions in turn.
Did Bank of Ireland carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that       
Mrs W would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
The rules and regulations in place when Bank of Ireland lent to Mrs W required it to carry out 
a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
would owe in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Bank of Ireland had to think about whether 
sustainably repaying any amounts lent would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mrs W. In practice this meant that Bank of Ireland had to ensure that making the repayments 
wouldnt cause Mrs W undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt 
enough for Bank of Ireland to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it 
had to consider the impact of any repayments on Mrs W. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Bank of Ireland did what it needed to before 
providing Mrs W with her loan. 
Were Bank of Irelands checks reasonable and proportionate
Bank of Ireland says that Mrs Ws loan was considered affordable, in line with its policy, 
based on what it was told during the application. The information Bank of Ireland gathered at 
the time suggested it concluded Mrs W received £2,400.00 a month. It also looks as though 
she declared outgoings of £950 a month. Bank of Ireland has also said that it carried out 
credit checks but while it has referred to some of the information on the searches it hasnt 
provided the output of them.
 
Ive carefully thought about what Bank of Ireland has said. 
While Bank of Ireland has provided the details of the internal score Mrs W achieved it hasnt 
provided any of the data which it says it obtained from the credit reference agency and which 
underpinned its decision to lend. It appears as though it simply expects me to accept that the 
loan was affordable simply because its systems approved it. And I think that its important for 
me to point that it doesnt automatically follow that a lender will have acted fairly and 
reasonably when providing a loan simply because it acted in line with its policy or an 
application met its minimum score. Considering Bank of Ireland says it gathered sufficient information to inform its lending 
decision, its extremely disappointing that Bank of Ireland hasnt provided it to me. This 
service cannot and will not look for evidence and construct an argument to support Bank of 
Irelands defence of Mrs Ws complaint. If Bank of Ireland cant provide the information it 
relied on and describe why this information showed it was fair and reasonable to lend to    
Mrs W, then I cant and wont reach the conclusion that its checks before providing this loan 
were proportionate. Without any evidence from Bank of Ireland to support its conclusions on 
this matter, I cannot and will not take it as read that its lending decision was fair. 
Im concerned at the reliance that Bank of Ireland has placed on the income check it says it 
carried out. Its fair to say that Bank of Ireland was advancing a significant sum of money 
here. And even on Mrs Ws declaration of her income, the payments were going to take up a 
significant proportion of her monthly income. Given the relatively significant proportion of  
Mrs Ws income being taken up by the payments, even on Bank of Irelands figures, I would 
have expected Bank of Ireland to have taken care to ensure Mrs Ws declaration of income 
was accurate before proceeding to lend.
Bank of Ireland has suggested it used a credit reference agency to validate Mrs Ws income 
and it hasnt been entirely clear or forthcoming on what this entailed. I am assuming that the 
data it used either compared the income Mrs W declared on this application to what shed 
declared on others made to her bank and other lenders, or it compared Mrs Ws declaration 
of her income to the amount going into her bank account each month. Either way, as far as I 
can see, at best, Bank of Ireland merely cross-referenced what Mrs W declared and I dont 
consider that this is the same as verifying her income. 
 
The amount being advanced and the proportion of Mrs Ws declared income being taken up 
by the monthly repayments leave me satisfied that it is reasonable and proportionate to have 
expected Bank of Ireland to have obtained further information before determining that this 
loan was affordable for Mrs W. As theres no evidence that Bank of Ireland asked for, or 
considered, further information to properly scrutinise and the matters Ive highlighted, I find 
that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before providing 
Mrs W with her loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Bank of Ireland that Mrs W
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Bank of Ireland that Mrs W wouldve 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
As Ive explained, Mrs W has provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the 
time she applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different 
things. And just because something shows up in the information Mrs W has provided, it 
doesnt mean it wouldve shown up in any checks Bank of Ireland mightve carried out. But in 
the absence of anything else from Bank of Ireland showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on it as an indication of what Mrs Ws financial circumstances were more likely than not to 
have been at the time. 
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Mrs Ws 
income was pretty much being used to meet her existing credit commitments and living 
costs. Furthermore, Mrs Ws bank statements also show that she was significantly 
overdrawn too. Ive seen what Bank of Ireland has said about what the purpose of the loan 
was recorded as at the time of the application. But even if I accept that the true purpose of the loan was home improvements, I dont see how this means Mrs W was going to meet her 
commitments to her existing creditors as well as this loan. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mrs W was already in a difficult financial 
position. Having looked at Mrs Ws bank statements, I have my suspicions as to why. But 
nonetheless, Im satisfied that Mrs W was unlikely to have been able to make the 
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted Bank of Ireland to the fact that Mrs W would not be able to sustainably 
make the repayments to this loan. 
Did Bank of Ireland act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs W in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Bank of Ireland acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs W in some other 
way.
Did Mrs W lose out as a result of Bank of Irelands shortcomings?
Mrs W has paid and is being expected to pay additional interest and charges as a result of 
being unfairly provided with this loan. Mrs W had to pay this additional interest at a time 
when she was already finding it difficult to repay what she owed. So Im satisfied that Mrs W 
has lost out because of what Bank of Ireland did wrong and Bank of Ireland needs to put 
things right.
Fair compensation  what Bank of Ireland needs to do to put things right for Mrs W
Ive given a lot of careful thought to what fair compensation should look like in this case. And 
I think that Bank of Ireland needs to do the following to put things right for Mrs W.
Removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Mrs Ws loan from the outset. The 
payments Mrs W made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£20,000.00 originally lent. Bank of Ireland should treat any payments made should 
the new starting balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments, if 
there are any, should be refunded to Mrs W;
Adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mrs W to the date of settlement;
If an outstanding balance remains on Mrs Ws loan once these adjustments have 
been made, Bank of Ireland should contact Mrs W to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this.
If, after all adjustments have been made, no outstanding balance remains, Bank of 
Ireland should remove any and all adverse information it may have recorded about 
this loan from Mrs Ws credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Ireland to take off tax from this interest. Bank of 
Ireland must give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint. Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman