DRN-2035392
The complaint
Mr D has complained about CIS General Insurance Limiteds decision to settle a claim as a 
fault claim under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D made a claim to his insurer, CIS in May 2019. He said his car had been damaged by 
another driver. The other driver made a claim to their insurer. They said Mr D caused the 
incident. So both parties blamed each other.
CIS promptly sought CCTV footage of the incident from the local council. But they said no 
footage existed. The other drivers insurer sent CIS a witness statement which held Mr D at 
fault for the incident. 
Mr D told CIS he had concerns about the third party witness. He said the other driver had 
called a friend who arrived just after the incident and claimed hed witnessed it. Mr D said a 
shop assistant had shouted to him when the incident had happened, so he said he would try 
and contact them.
Mr D provided a handwritten statement from his witness, the shop assistant. He explained 
that his witness had difficulty reading and writing. 
CIS wrote to Mr Ds witness twice asking for a formal signed statement. But it didnt receive 
a reply. 
In August 2019 CIS reviewed the claim and decided to settle it as a fault claim.
In May 2020 Mr D contacted CIS. He said hed only just discovered that CIS had settled the 
claim as a fault claim. He was very unhappy with CIS decision. He said it should have 
contacted him before so that he had an opportunity to speak to the witness. Mr D wanted 
CIS to change the recording of the claim to a non fault claim as he said he didnt cause the 
incident.
CIS didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. So he asked us to look at things for him.
CIS reviewed its response to Mr Ds complaint and told us its position had changed. It said 
that Mr D had alerted them to concerns as to the validity of the other drivers witness. But 
CIS had failed to challenge their statement  and so its possible that if it had  CIS might 
have been able to settle the claim on a shared liability basis. 
So to put things right, CIS said it would offer to reimburse Mr D 50% of the excess he paid  
as this is what he would have received had CIS settled the claim on a 50%50% shared 
liability basis. 
Our investigator explained that we dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts - but 
we can look at whether an insurer properly investigated the claim and reached its decision 
reasonably. The investigator thought CIS offer to put things right was reasonable. So she 
recommended CIS reimburse Mr D.
Mr D didnt agree. He provided photos of his car and the road where the incident took place. 
He says the other driver caused the incident as they drove into the back of his car. 
So as Mr D disagrees, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether CIS reached its decision in a reasonable way and in line with the 
policy. 
Mr Ds policy with CIS has a very common term. It says that CIS can take over the defence 
and settlement of a claim. This means CIS might make a decision Mr D doesnt agree with, 
but the policy allows CIS to do this. We dont disagree with this term in principle, provided an 
insurer can show it treated is customer fairly when applying it.
There was no CCTV footage. Mr D said he was in the right hand lane at traffic lights  
beyond which the two lanes merged into one. He says the car to his left went ahead of him 
as the lights changed. Mr D said he was ahead of the driver he collided with as the lanes 
merged  but the third party first scraped the nearside of his car. Then as the traffic ahead 
slowed, the third party was behind Mr Ds car and drove into the rear of his car. 
The other drivers witness said they saw Mr D overtake from the right hand side and tried to 
push into a space between the car in front of the other driver - and the other driver, and that 
Mr D then applied the brake, causing the collision. So the other drivers witness said Mr D 
was at fault for the incident.
Mr D provided a hand written statement from his witness. CIS wrote to the witness twice at 
the address provided by Mr D to request a full signed statement. But it didnt receive a reply. 
CIS reviewed the claim in August 2019. Because it didnt have CCTV or a full signed 
statement from Mr Ds witness, it felt it didnt have enough evidence to defend the claim. It 
took into account the fact that the other drivers insurer had provided a clear formal signed 
witness statement. 
CIS wrote to Mr D on 30 August 2019 to advise him of its intention to settle the claim as a 
fault claim. I understand Mr D says CIS didnt tell him  and so he didnt have the opportunity 
to contact the witness. But I cant say it was CIS fault if their letter didnt reach Mr D. 
I think CIS should have challenged the other drivers witness statement  given the concerns 
Mr D raised with CIS in June 2019. I cant safely conclude that their enquiries would have 
made a difference to the outcome. But its possible. And so I dont think CIS did all it could to 
properly investigate the claim. But given that it didnt have a formal statement from Mr Ds 
witness, I think the best outcome CIS could have reached was a shared liability settlement. 
And so I think CIS offer to reimburse Mr D for 50% of the excess he paid is enough to put 
things right. I think this is what might have happened if CIS had investigated the validity of 
the other drivers witness statement and been able to settle the claim on a shared liability 
basis. I understand Mr Ds strength of feeling about CIS decision. The photos hes provided show 
the damage to his car  but they dont prove his account that the other driver was at fault. 
Had it challenged the third party witness statement, I think the best outcome CIS could have 
achieved was a shared liability split. And so as it wouldnt have recovered all of its costs in 
any event, the claim would still be recorded as a fault claim. So I think CIS offer to put things 
right is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require CIS General Insurance 
Limited to reimburse Mr D 50% of the excess he paid under the claim.
CIS General Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If CIS General Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman