DRN-3143978
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that HiFX Europe Limited (trading as XE) refuses to refund the money he 
lost having fallen victim to a scam.
What happened
In early-2018 Mr N fell victim to a forex trading investment scam after searching online for 
somewhere to put his money in order to earn a better rate of return. He provided his details 
in response to an advert on a social media platform and was subsequently contacted and 
persuaded to invest. Mr N made 17 payments (two of which were split in two due to 
transaction limits imposed by the receiving bank) over the course of almost a year  totalling 
more than £650,000  from his XE account to two overseas accounts which appear to have 
been under the scammers control. 
In May 2019 XE appears to have received some intelligence from a third party about the 
beneficiary to whom his last two payments had been sent. This prompted it to ask Mr N for 
some additional information about his payments to that beneficiary. XE subsequently told 
Mr N it thought he had fallen victim to an investment scam and refused to process any 
further payments to that beneficiary. 
In July 2019 Mr N raised a complaint with XE and asked it to try and recall all the payments 
hed sent to the scammer. XE said it had found no errors in its handling of Mr Ns payments 
or claim. It said he authorised the payments, it had no reason to prevent him doing so and 
the recipient banks had refused (or said they were unable) to return any money when it 
notified them about the scam. 
Mr N remained unhappy and asked us to look into his complaint. I recently issued a 
provisional decision setting out why I didnt think Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. I have 
reproduced, below, my provisional findings
The relevant law and regulations  plus good industry practice and XEs own submissions  
suggest XE has a duty of care to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams 
so far as reasonably possible. XE might be negligent and liable for reasonably foreseeable 
losses if, in breach of that duty of care, it fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent authorised payment institution to potential fraud or financial crime by, or 
against, its customer. 
Having said that, the Payment Services Regulations 2017, in conjunction with XEs terms 
and conditions, also indicate that XE should execute authorised payment instructions without 
undue delay  and there is a presumption that liability for an authorised payment rests with 
the payer, even if that authorisation was obtained by third-party fraud. 
Theres no dispute in this case that Mr N authorised all of the disputed transactions. And Ive 
taken the above obligations into account when deciding if XE acted fairly and reasonably 
when it processed his instructions. I also note the following.
Given the level of sophistication employed by the fraudster, I initially had doubts about 
whether Mr N had actually been the victim of a scam. I say that because, while investment 
scams are not uncommon, some of the complaints we receive simply involve high-risk 
investment trading. In essence these are bets on the performance of, for example, 
commodities, or stocks. That kind of investment, by their very nature, can result in very 
disappointing returns or losses. And, when simply executing an authorised payments, XE 
does not have to protect its customers against the risk of bad bargains or give investment 
advice.
Mr N thought he was investing with Algotechs Limited and BAX Ltd (or BeAlgo) and I think 
its clear he understood he was putting his money into forex trading, which carries the 
inherent risks Ive mentioned. Ive also managed to obtain (via www.web.archive.org)
some screen shots of Algotechs website from around the time Mr Ns disputed transactions 
started and can see the home screen explained:
The capital markets and forex trading entails significant risks and is not appropriate for 
all investors. The possibility of incurring substantial losses should be taken into account. It 
is therefore important to understand the possible consequences of investing. Investors 
should weigh their earning potential against the risks involved and act accordingly. Past 
results should not be considered a promise for a similar outcome in the future.
Mr N has also shared a screenshot with us of the BeAlgo customer dashboard he was given 
access to which shows, amongst other things, his deposits and withdrawals. At the bottom it 
says Risk Warning: Forex and Algo Trading involve significant risk to your capital, and might 
lead to loss of part or all of invested capital. In my experience, its unusual for investment 
scammers to include these types of warning. Usually theyre trying to tempt individuals to 
invest who have little knowledge, or experience, of investments and they tend to do so by 
promising high returns without any risk. Including this type of risk warning might easily scare 
off potential victims. 
I also note Mr N was encouraged to subscribe to a genuine investment tracking app to keep 
an eye on his investments as well as having access to the dashboard Ive already 
mentioned. And it seems reasonable to think the scammers must have invested a 
considerable amount of time into maintaining the data-feed into these two applications as 
well as their own websites.
When deciding if Mr N was scammed, I have contrasted the above with the information thats 
been published by a couple of, what I consider to be, trustworthy sources.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is the UK financial services industrys regulator. It 
publishes a warning list on its website to help protect consumers against investment scams. 
It also includes warnings on its register if it is aware of a particular financial business 
operating without the required authorisation. Algotechs and BeAlgo first appeared on the 
warning list and unauthorised firm listing on 25 April and 15 May 2019 respectively. They 
also were both mentioned on the International Organization of Securities Commissions 
(IOSCO) investor alerts portal on 30 April and 20 May 2019 respectively. However, those 
publications all occurred after Mr N sent his final transfer. And they dont specifically say the 
companies are scammers, the FCA simply say:
Almost all firms and individuals offering, promoting or selling financial services or 
products in the UK have to be authorised or registered by us.
This firm is not authorised by us and is targeting people in the UK. You will not have 
access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or be protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), so you are unlikely to get your money back if things go 
wrong.
And IOSCOs warnings give this generic description  Regarding fraudulent or manipulative 
practices (insider dealing, market manipulation, misrepresentation of material information, 
etc.).
Mr N has also provided posts from some forums which suggest Algotechs or BeAlgo are 
scammers. I dont think this is conclusive evidence, given everything else Ive seen, that 
Mr N was scammed. Ive taken it into account but must also note that most, if not all, of the 
posts post-date the bulk of the transfers Mr N made.
Overall, I have some doubts that Mr N was scammed. But, even if he was, the level of 
sophistication the scammers employed would, I think, have made it difficult for XE to uncover 
or prevent Mr N falling victim to the scam had it questioned him about why he was making 
the transfers. In all the circumstances, Im not currently persuaded XE ought to have done 
more than it did after receiving Mr Ns transfer instructions. I say this with the following in 
mind:
Mr N sent all but two of his payments to UPC Consulting and Toot Capital, rather than to 
Algotechs or BeAlgo. A phone call seems to have taken place between Mr N and XE on 
the day the first payment was sent because Mr N wasnt sure how to set up a new 
payee. XEs notes dont suggest it discussed the reason for making the payment. And 
Ive seen nothing which makes me think XE ought to have been aware that Mr N thought 
he was sending his money to an investment company, such that it ought to have 
questioned him further and/or warned him about investment scams. 
XEs notes show that, on 20 December 2018, it emailed Mr N and said We take security 
very seriously and like all companies involved in making international payments, we have 
to carry out appropriate screening to prevent fraud and money laundering. Following a 
recent review of your account, we will need you to provide us with further information as 
follows: Please clarify the full reason for your transactions to UPC Consulting Ltd & 
please provide any supporting documentation such as invoices. XE also asked why 
Mr N was making payments to two other business and asked if he had been using his 
personal account to make business-related payments. XEs records suggest Mr N 
replied by phone on 4 January 2019 (after it chased him) and said hed been trying to 
open a business account. On 10 January 2019 XE ascertained that Mr N was living and 
transacting from America, so it restricted his account as Due to US legislation we are 
not authorised for our clients to trade while they are in the US. In response Mr N said I 
am leaving the USA on the 17th January. I have a number of personal and business 
payments that need to be made over the next couple of weeks (including a €500.000) 
purchase of a property in Malta. If you restrict my account this is going to cause a huge 
amount of inconvenience for me. XE then permitted Mr N to transact because he was 
only temporarily in America. 
I note all of this because there is no mention in any of the correspondence that the UPC 
Consulting payments related to an investment. Its not the case that businesses should 
always take at face value the reasons a consumer gives for making a payment, because 
businesses ought to know that scammers sometimes persuade their victims to give a 
cover story in order to help prevent the payment from being blocked. But Mr N wasnt 
given a cover story and, given everything Ive seen, Im not currently persuaded he 
would have told XE about his investment opportunity even if XE had questioned him at 
any other point about it. Mr N had given plausible reasons, when questioned, for making 
payments and was relatively insistent that he be allowed to continue using his account. .None of the warnings mentioned above link Algotechs and BeAlgo to either UPC 
Consulting or Toot Capital. As Ive said, those are the recipient names Mr N gave when 
he placed the transfers. And neither of those names are, even now, mentioned on the 
FCAs or IOSCOs warning lists. I mention this, in particular, because Mr N say XE 
should have identified, from discussions on various online forums, that there was a link 
between these four businesses and that some or all were involved in scams. I disagree 
with Mr Ns suggestion. I think it would be good practice for XE to take account of alerts 
published by relevant regulators and I included IOSCO, in addition to the FCA, in this 
particular case because Mr Ns payments were being sent overseas. But I dont think its 
reasonable (or proportionate) to expect XE to trawl the internet in relation to every one of 
the hundreds or thousands of transactions it likely facilitates each day or week. And 
forums such as the ones Mr N has pointed to arent always wholly reliable and/or 
factually accurate.
HiFX Europe Limited has been an FCA authorised payment institution (what they prefer 
to refer to as, an online money transfer service) since 13 January 2018  the XE trading 
name was introduced in February 2019. And Im satisfied it was acting under this 
authorisation when it processed all of Mr Ns disputed transactions. 
XE says it has screening mechanisms in place to prevent money laundering and fraud 
and Ive already quoted from an email it sent Mr N which says as much. But no flags 
were raised until after Mr N placed his final transfer in March 2019. As I say, Ive seen 
nothing on the FCA or IOSCOs website that shouldve prompted earlier intervention. 
And Im willing to accept XEs assertion that it was not until May 2019 that it received 
notification from an external party that the Toot Capital account might have been 
involved in investment fraud. Having said this, it would be helpful if XE would provide in 
response to this provisional decision (and in confidence, if necessary) more detailed 
information about how this external notification came about (from where did it arise and 
what did it say exactly).
I think the relationship Mr N had with XE was different to the one he would have with, for 
example, his current account provider. Current accounts tend to be used on an almost 
daily basis for the receipt of income and for everyday spending. Whereas Mr N set up his 
XE account in June 2017 (just 11 months before the first disputed transaction) and he 
tells us he used it primarily to make payments for a property he owned overseas. In my 
experience, this kind of usage is quite normal, mainly because payment institutions like 
XE offer better exchange rates than the high street banks. What this also means is that 
the pattern of spending is often irregular and may include larger value, international 
transfers. I mention this, in particular, because Mr N has pointed to various pieces of 
guidance and best practice in support of his complaint and to demonstrate that XE ought 
to have done more to verify his transfers. But I disagree  the checks and measures a 
business undertakes should be proportionate to the relationship that exists between it 
and its customer. And the way Mr N was using his account was not, I dont think, unusual 
for the type of account or the usage he envisaged when he opened the account, even 
though the amounts being transferred from April 2018 were somewhat higher than in the 
previous 11 months. And, despite what Mr N says, it does seem he indicated he might 
transfer over £1million per year. Mr N now says that was never his intention as he did not 
have that much money at his disposal then, nor could he have ever earned that figure 
(his salary at the time was £130,000). But the notes Ive already referred to talks about 
him planning to sell a property for €500,000, which is a considerable amount in and of 
itself. In the circumstances, Im prepared to accept the evidence supplied by XE about 
what Mr N told it when he opened the account. . It seems Mr N was prepared to put his money into forex trading despite the risks 
mentioned above. I also note, despite what Mr N says, the Personal Client Addendum 
doesnt actually guarantee that he will receive the quoted success fee and this 
document also talks about making investment activities in the market. Mr N has also 
shared with us various emails he received about the investment, one of which refers him 
to an article about Algotechs in The European  a quarterly business magazine 
(available online and in hard copy), published by a UK company. The link that was 
provided no longer works, but Mr N seems to suggest he read it at the time and this 
independent review encouraged him to invest. Mr N also says that he instigated first 
contact with the scammer and no high-pressure sales tactics were employed, which is 
the opposite of what we tend to see with investment scams.
Overall, at the time the payments were made Im satisfied XE did have systems
in place to look out for fraud. Taking into account what XE did and the way firms obligations 
have changed over time, as well as the particular circumstances of this complaint, Im 
satisfied XE did enough to try to protect Mr H from financial harm, I dont think XE was 
obligated to do any more than this at the time the scam occurred.
And, in any event, given the relative sophistication of the scam, as Ive mentioned above and 
Mr Ns willingness to take the risks set out on Algotechs website, even if XE had questioned 
Mr N earlier about the intended recipients and/or purpose for his payments, Im not satisfied 
it would have made a difference. I think its more likely than not hed still have gone ahead 
with the investments.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr N but, considering XEs obligations and the 
specific circumstances of this case, I cant fairly tell it to refund any of his money.
In response to my provisional decision, XE provided, in confidence, additional evidence to 
show when and how it became aware that the Toot Capital account might have been 
involved in fraud.
Mr N didnt accept my provisional findings and maintains that XE should refund all his money 
because it should have done more to prevent the scam. He said, in summary, that:
He believed, like thousands of other people, that Algotechs and BeAlgo were genuine 
investment firms. He was not an experienced investor, was not willing to risk his money 
and believed he would get an 8% return. It was a professionally orchestrated scam and 
no-one who sent money to the fraudsters has managed to generate the promised 
income or been able to withdraw their money. The FCA never explicitly states that a 
certain company is scam.
XE did not have effective money laundering or fraud prevention measures in place and it 
failed to comply with the BSI PAS code which sets out the type of transactional 
behaviour which might indicate fraud is taking place. It called him towards the end of 
December 2018, by which time hed already sent more than £516,000 to the scammers. 
A restriction was placed on his account simply because he was transacting while 
overseas. He didnt provide detailed information about his investment plans in response 
to XEs enquires because he didnt realise, at that time, he was being scammed and saw 
no reason to disclose information that was not specifically requested.
Our investigator thought XE ought to have made enquiries about the payments. And he 
suggested that a conversation did take place in which the purpose of the payments was 
discussed. This seems to contradict what I said in my provisional decision  that no discussion took place. And if XE have now denied that such a conversation took place, it 
is lying and its testimony should be ignored.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in my provisional decision why I didnt think XE ought to refund any of Mr Ns money 
and my overall opinion about that has not changed.  But I would add the following.
My role has been to review Mr Ns complaint independently and Im not bound by any 
conclusions the investigator reached. So I dont intend on explaining why my findings 
differed from the investigators. 
I dont think theres anything which supports Mr Ns suggestion that XE has lied or fabricated 
evidence. So Ive made my decision after reviewing everything that has been said and 
provided by both Mr N and XE.
I note what Mr N says about XEs obligations, including his references to the BSI code, 
various pieces of FSA and/or FCA guidance and best practice. But I must point out that 
some of what he refers to relates to expectations for banks and building societies and, at the 
time his transactions occurred, were not necessarily applicable to payment institutions like 
XE. I have also already acknowledged that XE had a duty of care to protect its customers 
against the risk of fraud and scams so far as reasonably possible. But it also had to balance 
that with the requirement to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. 
And I also think its relevant, as set out in my provisional decision, that the relationship 
between customers and payment institutions like XE are often different to the relationship 
between customers and their primary bank.
Mr N has explained why he didnt disclose to XE his reasons for making the payments to 
UPC Consulting. But XEs records suggest it did ask for this information by email in 
December 2018 and his failure to reply was what prompted his account to be restricted. The 
restriction appears to have been lifted in January 2019 after a phone call and email 
exchanges with Mr N. The notes relating to the call are fairly limited, but suggest Mr N 
merely explained he was trying to open a business account but had been making payments 
from his personal account in the meantime. And he subsequently said in an email that he 
wanted the account to be unrestricted because he was planning on making a number of 
personal and business payments over the next couple of weeks. I think the name UPC 
Consulting could feasible be assumed to relate to business activities and this name alone 
doesnt suggest anything relating to an investment. Mr N has also said he wouldnt have 
seen any need to disclose his investment plans to XE because he didnt know he was being 
scammed then. Without that information, and given everything else Ive said, I cant agree 
that XE ought to have taken steps to alert him to, or educate him about, possible investment 
scams. 
There remains nothing which suggests XE had, or ought to had have, concerns about the 
recipient of Mr Ns payments at the time he made them. And Im satisfied it contacted him 
promptly, in May 2019, after learning that one of the receiving accounts might have been 
involved in a scam.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman