DRN-2009464
The complaint
Mrs H says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a store care PPI policy Mrs H took out in 1996.  
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Hs complaint because I dont think AXA gave Mrs H clear 
enough information about the policy. I say this because it didnt explain that the policy 
excludes pre-existing medical conditions. 
I think this would have mattered to Mrs H because she had a medical condition which 
wouldnt have been covered. So, she couldnt have claimed on the policy for everything she 
expected to be able to.
I dont think Mrs H wouldve bought the policy if AXA had given her enough information 
about it. So, I think Mrs H has lost out because of what AXA did wrong. 
Ive taken into account AXAs comments, including that it thinks theres insufficient evidence 
to suggest Mrs H wouldve thought her medical condition was likely to cause her to have 
time off work. But I still think I should uphold the complaint. 
Mrs H told us that she was taking medication for the condition when she was sold the PPI. 
Medication is rarely prescribed for this condition, so I think its likely that it was having a 
detrimental effect on Mrs Hs life at the time, or at least at high risk of doing so. Mrs H also 
told us that she had previously had time off work as a result of the condition. So, I think it 
wouldve been important to her that the PPI covered her medical condition. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs H would have owed when she closed her store care 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs H owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs H would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year from then on. 
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs H would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs H 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs H 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store care. The interest rate should be 8% a year 
from then on. 
D. AXA should tell Mrs H what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman