DRN-3786491
The complaint
Mrs A complains about advice she was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan in 2017. She says the 
advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Portal Financial Services LLP is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer to Portal. 
What happened
Mrs A paid Portal for advice in relation to her pension and retirement needs. Portal ultimately 
facilitated Mrs A transferring away from her OPS, a local authority scheme, to a personal 
pension plan. It said she could access a tax-free cash element and use the remainder to buy 
certain things shed said she wanted.
The information gathered by Portal about Mrs A at the time was broadly as follows:
Mrs A was around 55 years old living with her husband who was then aged 49. They 
currently had no-one financially dependent on them. Mr and Mrs A earned around 
£1,100 and £1,500 per month (net) respectively.
Mr and Mrs A owned their home valued at £195,000 with an eight-year mortgage left 
to run, costing around £850 per month. They had no other apparent assets and a 
small car loan which was being paid down.
Mrs A had accrued these pension benefits in two periods of previous employment. 
The (total) cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the OPS in 2017 was around 
£29,246 (this was later revalued £30,285) with a normal retirement age of 65.
Mrs A complained to Portal in 2021 that she was given unsuitable advice to transfer her 
pension to a type of personal plan. However, Portal says that in its dealings with Mrs A, it 
first told her that it didnt think she ought to transfer away from her DB scheme. It said it told 
her its advice was not to transfer out. 
However, Portal says Mrs A became an insistent client  a term used within the industry 
when a client wants to go against what was recommended to them by their adviser. Portal 
says that only when Mrs A insisted, did it then go on to make a second recommendation: 
that she transfer to a personal pension plan, take a 25% tax-free lump sum, and eventually 
take the rest as a taxable sum. She had immediate plans for the money.
The complaint has been referred to our Service. One of our investigators looked into it and 
said we should uphold it. They thought Portal hadnt treated Mrs A correctly when 
categorising her as an insistent client and that the advice to transfer the OPS was 
unsuitable. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Portal's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. 
Having considered all the circumstances in this case, Ive decided to uphold Mrs As 
complaint. 
Introduction
I would normally begin by assessing whether the transfer of the pension was financially 
viable. For instance, Id look at whether there was evidence Mrs As pension could 
potentially grow outside her OPS, to an extent where transferring to a type of personal 
pension was worthwhile. And Id compare these types of projections against the valuable 
benefits and guarantees Mrs A would be giving up by leaving a DB scheme.
However, in this case, Portal itself has said its initial advice was not to transfer. It referred to 
critical yield rates. The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that 
would be required on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide 
the same annuity benefits as the DB scheme. The critical yield is therefore part of a range of 
different things which help show how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the 
necessary investment growth for a transfer-out to become financially viable. The critical yield 
in this case was very high and they showed that if Mrs A had intended to retire at her NRA of 
65, then transferring out would see her getting much lower retirement benefits. However, the 
evidence here is that Mrs A wanted to access money quite soon.As I say, Portal is adamant it told her transferring wasnt suitable in her case. So, having said 
in 2017  and again in 2021, following the complaint - that transferring wasnt suitable, from 
a financial perspective, it would obviously be very hard for Portal now to argue that it was.
For the record, I agree that transferring wasnt suitable from a financial comparison 
perspective. Everything Ive seen shows Mrs As funds would have had to grow outside the 
scheme at very substantial rates year-on-year, to make transferring worthwhile. I dont think 
she would have had a high tolerance for investment risk and she had no relevant 
experience. Her tolerance for loss was also low. Mrs A had other pensions, but everything 
suggests these were very modest, as were the one(s) related to this case. So, transferring 
simply wasnt suitable from a financial comparison perspective and the evidence is very 
strong in this regard.
There were also other significant reasons why transferring wasnt suitable which in the main 
related to the benefits and guarantees within the current scheme Mrs A would be giving up 
by transferring away. There were also death benefits which Mrs As spouse might have 
benefited from if shed predeceased him.
However, as theres no dispute that transferring wasnt suitable for Mrs A, I dont need to 
spend any more time explaining why.
What was Portal required to do?
Portal says Mrs A ultimately went against its advice. It says that she was advised that she 
ought to stay in the DB scheme, and it was Mrs A herself that insisted she wanted to transfer 
out. Portal says this meant she became an insistent client and that accordingly, it followed a 
process to transfer Mrs As OPS to a personal pension plan, as per her wishes. 
Ive set out above that the regulator places important general obligations on firms like Portal 
when giving financial advice to clients. At the time of the advice there were no regulatory 
rules in place specifically in respect of insistent clients. But in February 2016 the regulator 
provided guidance on its website about what steps it expected businesses to take when 
advising an insistent client. There were three key steps, which it set out on its website as 
follows. 
1. You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this advice must be 
clear to the client. This is the normal advice process. 
2. You should be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action. If the 
advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there may be additional 
requirements. These may include ensuring the advice is provided by or checked by a 
pension transfer specialist, comparing the defined benefit (DB) scheme with the defined 
contribution (DC) scheme and starting by assuming the transfer is not suitable (see COBS 
19.1). 
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice.
The regulator said the advice should be set out clearly in the suitability report, and that it 
needed to be clear with its client about the risks of their chosen course of action and that 
he/she is acting against its advice. It also added that if the client used their own words to 
indicate that they want to act against its advice, this should normally be clear. 
The regulator also published additional guidance on its website giving examples of good and 
poor practice. It gave the following example of good practice relating to suitability reports: The adviser gave a personal recommendation in clear and 
unambiguous terms regarding both the advice on whether or not to 
transfer and, if the client chose to transfer, the receiving product and 
the funds into which the client was advised to invest. 
The adviser discussed the client's reasons and the risks of not 
accepting the personal recommendation. The adviser documented the 
reasons, the discussion and its outcome in a separate document to the 
original personal recommendation.
Robust warnings were given and documented. 
Whilst this was guidance, rather than rules, I would have expected Portal to have been 
aware of this and ensured that the advice and process it followed was consistent with the 
regulators expectations.
However, I should also point out that there is no rule to prevent advisers transacting 
business against their advice, if the client insists. So, I need to think here about whether 
enough was done by Portal to try and find alternative ways of meeting Mrs As objectives. I 
have also considered whether the insistent client process in this case was merely, in the 
words of the regulator, a papering exercise. 
Initial contacts between the parties
The evidence Ive seen strongly suggests Portals intention from the outset was always to 
facilitate the transfer from Mrs As OPS, to a personal pension plan.
Portal established this approach by writing an initial letter to Mrs A, on 9 June 2017, basically 
saying it had collected enough information about her existing scheme and that shed be able 
to access a tax-free lump sum of £7,311. Portal knew that Mrs A was interested in 
generating some money for an important family event and to make some home 
improvements. And the wording of this initial letter, in my view, encouraged her to 
immediately access her pension funds straightaway, by moving to a personal plan. 
For example, no assessment appears to have been carried out by Portal as to the amount 
Mrs A might have needed to pay for this event and / or the home improvements shed 
mentioned. I also think the letter was misleading. This is because the amount of tax-free 
cash quoted by Portal in the letter was, in fact, based on 25% of Mrs As CETV and it could 
only be accessed in the way Portal was suggesting by transferring out to a personal pension 
plan. 
In effect, the only way Mrs A could access the specific amount of tax-free cash being quoted 
was by transferring out of her OPS. Accessing early retirement under her existing scheme 
was not mentioned at this point and its almost certain shed have been able to access a 
lower amount of tax-free cash under the rules of her DB scheme. This doesnt mean her 
OPS wasnt worth staying in, it merely reflects the differences in how different pensions 
work. Mrs A could have remained in her scheme, and probably accessed tax-free cash 
earlier than the NRA of 65. And shed have had a guaranteed pension and associated 
benefits for the rest of her life.
So, this initial letter didnt highlight these issues. Instead, it promoted the amount of money 
she could get only by transferring away. It also poorly explained the critical yield issue and 
conflated it with what it called the growth rate. Furthermore, I think its enlightening that 
Portal was also promoting this type of action before it had even collected sufficient information about Mrs As circumstances and needs: Portals fact-find wasnt completed 
until 14 June 2017 and it hadnt yet issued the suitability report. 
Its therefore my conclusion that this letter was already paving the way for a transfer-out to 
take place.
On 26 June 2017 Portal wrote to Mrs A again. Here, it said it wouldnt be minded to 
recommend a transfer-out. However, this letter was short and in my view, it followed the 
same approach as before by promoting transferring away as being a viable and simple 
option for Mrs A. It contained several substantial shortcomings and Ive noted Mrs A still 
hadnt yet been sent the suitability report. 
Whilst the letter did start by saying its advice was not to transfer away from her DB scheme, 
it then immediately explained how she could do the opposite. It said, everyones 
circumstances are different and if you decide you still want to transfer . to access your pension 
early then this is something we can help you with. In this instance we would need to treat you as 
an insistent client throughout your pension review.
Portal did mention some retirement figures in relation to the OPS Mrs A was currently in. But 
these only related to a retirement and taking cash at 65. What Portal should have been 
doing here was genuinely promoting to Mrs A, the value of remaining where she was with 
her pension and explaining to her why. In my view, remaining in the DB scheme was by far 
much more in her best interests, and if she needed to raise some cash for a specific reason 
in 2017, there should have been a discussion about what she thought she needed at the 
time; Mrs A could then have been advised of the many other ways of doing this rather than 
irreversibly transferring out of her DB scheme and leaving her with an uncertain retirement.  
A major theme - and failing - in the letter of 26 June 2017 was therefore not only that the 
suitability report hadnt yet been issued, there was a contradictory message which it was 
giving. Mrs A was paying a considerable amount of money for this advice and I think her 
expectation would have been that it would be clear and in her best interests. However, 
despite initially saying in the letter that a transfer wasnt being recommended, Portal 
immediately undermined this by saying it could facilitate the transfer in any event. It enclosed 
a pre-populated form and invited Mrs A to self-declare herself as an insistent client. There 
followed three options for Mrs A - the first two of these were actually to transfer away, 
despite Portal having said this wasnt recommended; whilst the third option was to do 
nothing and stay in the OPS. 
So, in summarising Portals dealings with Mrs A up to this point, I think its reasonable to say 
that its communications lacked in both clarity and objectivity. If Portal really was to have 
effectively communicated to Mrs A that its advice was not to transfer out of the DB scheme 
at all, I would have expected the do nothing option to be the only one available at this point 
together with a clear set of explanations of what this was based on. And if Mrs A really 
wanted to go against that advice, then further discussions could have taken place later, 
when shed had time to digest all the reasons for the advice not to transfer. Portal could then 
have set out clearly the risks of not accepting its advice.
Mrs A returned her insistent client form on 3 July 2017. She signed a declaration which was 
pre-populated by Portal. But in my view, this was no more than an attempt by Portal to 
abrogate itself of responsibility. This statement is of little value, in my view, containing as it 
did pre-prepared and generic statements that were not personal to Mrs As situation. 
Further down the form, Ive noted Mrs A was asked to write  in her own hand  why she 
wanted to transfer. She basically set out that her intention was to spend the proceeds more 
or less straight away. However, given the things she mentioned, I think there was plenty of scope for Portal to point out that these could have been paid for using other methods, rather 
than irreversibly transferring away from her DB scheme.
The suitability report
It is common in pension transfer advice cases to see the businesss formal recommendation 
about what to do, set out in a suitability report. This was produced on 12 July 2017.
However, as Ive described above, the suitability report in this case was issued after Mrs A 
had already been invited to self-declare herself as an insistent client. In my view, this 
substantiates Portals overall approach which was simply to transact what Mrs A thought she 
wanted, rather than to give her advice that was in her best interests. 
So, I think the actions of Portal here fell substantially short of what Id expect to see from a 
regulated financial adviser. Not only was the suitability report issued, several weeks after 
important decisions had evidently been made, like the letters preceding it, it was saying one 
thing, but really facilitating another. Whilst on first look the report did set out that its initial 
recommendation for her was not to transfer out, I think this was seriously undermined by 
statements and actions it made directly after this. This approach was therefore identical to 
the preceding letter. In my view, Portals report was completely pre-disposed to enabling Mrs 
A to transfer out of her OPS from the outset. And so, its initial recommendation did no more 
than pay lip service to the important benefits and guarantees Mrs A would be giving up in the 
process.
I say all this because although there was a recommendation not to transfer out of her DB 
scheme, this was set out only briefly at the beginning of the report. Here would have been an 
appropriate point at which Portal could have clearly told Mrs A why she shouldnt transfer. 
There should have been an explanation of the benefits shed be giving up and a 
demonstration that her funds, if transferred out of the scheme and shed decided to invest 
them, would be highly unlikely to grow in a way that would match the benefits of leaving 
them inside the scheme. 
By seeing this Mrs A would have been able to know that by transferring, her pension benefits 
would likely be considerably lower in the longer term. This could have been done with much 
clearer references to the critical yield or other growth-related comparisons, together with 
accompanying explanations. Portal also ought to have explained the impact of transferring 
on Mrs As wider retirement plans, including whether shed have enough income to live on at 
her desired retirement age if she transferred out and spent most of her money. 
However, it was only later in the report that references were made to what Mrs A would be 
giving up and, in my view, these dangers were substantially underplayed. Mrs A retirement 
provisions were already modest and by giving these two elements of her OPS up, there 
appeared no other plan for her retirement. Portal also failed to investigate and record Mr As 
circumstances, which could have been relevant here. In my view, this was an example of 
Portals poor overall service and attention to detail.
However, I reiterate that by the time of the suitability report, important decisions had already 
been made  so what did or didnt follow in the report could be said to be moot points. It is 
my view that Portals actions and inactions here fitted the regulators later definition of a 
papering exercise designed to quickly complete the transfer-out process at all costs. 
Portals recommendation simply wasnt clear,, or indeed genuine and it comprehensively 
failed to set out its advice with due care and skill.
Was Mrs A really an insistent client?I dont believe the evidence is plausible that Mrs A even was an insistent client. The 
evidence Ive seen is strongly suggestive of her not being experienced in these types of 
financial matters and so was heavily influenced by her advisor. 
Portals explanations were poor and its communications about what it was really 
recommending for Mrs A were unclear. It produced templated forms and statements which I 
think offered Mrs A what she thought was an easy way to achieve her short-term financial 
objectives at the time. These forms failed to highlight the risks and issues of her giving up 
her pension and it failed to make it clear that transferring her pension was directly opposed 
to what was in Mrs As overall best interests. 
If Portal had followed a much better process, I dont think Mrs A would have insisted on 
going ahead with the transfer. I say this for the following reasons:
It would have been clear to Mrs A what she would be losing out by transferring her 
deferred benefits.
Theres no evidence that Mrs A, an inexperienced investor, desired any input or 
control over pension funds.
Mrs A was paying for independent financial advice, and if that advice had been 
persuasive about the suitability of remaining in her OPS, I think its more likely that 
shed have followed that advice, rather than being pushed immediately down an 
insistent client route.
Summary
In this decision I have set out why I dont think Mrs A met the definition of an insistent client. 
I think there is substantial and verifiable evidence that this process was used by Portal 
simply to transact what Mrs A may have thought she wanted to achieve at the time  to 
transfer her pension away from her DB scheme. 
Portals initial recommendation not to transfer was not comprehensive, meaningful, or easy 
to understand. It did not adequately explain why transferring out was not in Mrs As best 
interests, in a way that was personal to her or with reference to her objectives. Portal then 
immediately offered Mrs A a very easy route to transferring her pension anyway, via a series 
of choices / signatures on pre-populated forms. In this respect, the advice did not meet the 
standard I mentioned at the beginning of this decision about being clear, fair and not 
misleading.
If Mrs A had been given clear and persuasive reasons why transferring wasnt in her best 
interests, she would have followed advice to remain inside the DB scheme. Mrs A went to 
Portal seeking advice. I think its much more likely that she would have followed that advice 
had it been delivered with the skill, care and diligence required and shown to be in her 
interests.
Portal failed in its duty, so Im upholding Mrs As complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs A, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for Portals unsuitable advice. Compensation 
should be based on her normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance. On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mrs A, through her representative, whether she preferred any 
redress to be calculated now, in line with current guidance, or wait for any new 
guidance/rules to be published. I am satisfied that a calculation in line with current FG17/9 
guidelines remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mrs A. 
Compensation should be based on her normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance. This calculation should be carried out as at the date of 
my final decision and using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of that 
decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs As 
acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs As 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs As SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs As pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mrs A within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification 
of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mrs A.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mrs A the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mrs A any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mrs A any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mrs A the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs A.
If Mrs A accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs A can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs A may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman