DRN-3888472
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) has refused to refund her the money 
she lost falling victim to a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Miss A was convinced by a social media account she thought belonged to a 
friend to make payments into an investment with a coach that she thought was legitimate. 
Miss As friends account showed she had received a big pay out.
The coach promised Miss A a large pay out and walked her through how to buy bitcoin and 
transfer it into the investment. When Miss A wanted to withdraw from the investment, she 
was given several reasons why she needed to make further payments first, which she did.
It later turned out that Miss As friends account had been hacked and she had been 
scammed.
Miss A made the following payments in relation to the scam via a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange:
Date Payee Amount Payment Method
3 September 2022 Moonpay £259.99 Transfer
3 September 2022 Moonpay £1,500.00 Transfer
3 September 2022 Moonpay £600.00 Transfer
4 September 2022 Moonpay £1,561.84 Transfer
4 September 2022 Moonpay £300.00 Transfer
4 September 2022 Moonpay £2,100.00 Transfer
4 September 2022 Moonpay £2,000.00 Transfer
4 September 2022 Moonpay £405.00 Transfer
4 September 2022 Moonpay £500.00 Transfer
Miss A has been unable to recover any of the payments she made.
Our Investigator considered Miss As complaint and thought it should be upheld. He also 
though Miss A should share some of the responsibility for her loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Miss A has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided
by both Miss A and Monzo sets out what happened. What is in dispute is whether Monzo
should refund the money Miss A lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Miss A made
Miss A made the payments into the scam via transfer. When payments are made in this way 
Monzo has limited options available to recover the payments and in the circumstances, Im 
satisfied Monzo was unable to recover the payments Miss A paid.
Should Monzo have prevented the payments Miss A made? 
Miss A has accepted she authorised the payments she made from her Monzo account, so 
the starting point here is that Miss A is responsible. However, banks and other Payment 
Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to 
fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money 
laundering.
The question here is whether Monzo should have stepped in when Miss A was attempting to 
make the payments, and if it had, would it have been able to prevent the scam taking place.
The first three payments Miss A made into the scam were for relatively low amounts. 
Although they were to a new payee it wouldnt be reasonable for me to say that Monzo 
should stop payments every time one of its customers pays someone new.
However, by the time Miss A attempted to make the fourth payment for £1,561.84 she was 
making a payment to a new payee for the fourth time in less than five hours. Consecutive 
payments of these amounts were not in line with how Miss A usually operated her account 
and I think it would have been reasonable that this fourth payment triggered Monzos fraud 
prevention systems, prompting it to step in and question Miss A about what the payments 
were for.
Had Monzo stepped in and asked Miss A what the payments were for I have no reason to 
believe Miss A would have been dishonest in her answers. As the circumstances of this 
scam are like what Monzo is likely to have seen before I think its likely Monzo would have 
uncovered the scam and Miss A would not have made any further payments. So, Monzo is 
responsible for Miss As loss from the fourth payment onwards.
Did Miss A contribute to her loss?
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000).
Miss A appeared to have concerns about the investment part way through but continued to 
make payments. She was also promised too good to be true returns on her investment 
which I think should have raised a red flag for her.
With the above in mind, I think it would be fair to reduce compensation by 25% on the basis 
that Miss A should share some blame for what happened.
Monzo has explained that its system is not designed in a way to have caught the payments 
Miss A was making and that its common for Monzo customers to use their accounts in the 
way Miss A used her account to make the payments she did.
However, I have covered the reasons why I think Monzos fraud prevention systems should 
have been triggered and these points dont change my decision.Putting things right
Monzo Bank Ltd should refund payments Miss A made into the scam from 4 September 
2022 less 25%.
Monzo Bank Ltd should add 8% simple interest per year to the amount it pays Miss A from 
the time Miss A made the payments to the time Monzo Bank Ltd provides the refund (less 
any lawfully deductible tax).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd to put things right by doing what Ive 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman