DRN-3031381
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card. Miss E says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought 
Lloydss subsequent offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-
disclosure of high commission, was fair in the circumstances.
Miss Es representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. However, they didnt raise 
any new or additional points and repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Es. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Es 
complaint.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided Lloyds should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that its subsequent offer to refund some of the cost of PPI 
to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. 
Its not entirely clear whether the sale was a postal one or at a branch of the bank and we no 
longer have access to the actual agreement Miss E signed when she applied for her new 
credit card. However, it looks like the PPI policy was probably taken out at the same time as 
Miss E got her new card, in 1994. Businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely 
and in the absence of the original paperwork she completed, Ive viewed a copy of the type 
of application form that was typically used by Lloyds at the time.
Using this example of the application form, I think Miss E would have most likely been 
presented with a yes/ no option as far as having PPI was concerned. There is no dispute 
she was sold this type of cover, so I think she probably agreed to buy it by selecting yes. I 
have also seen some of her card account monthly statements. These show that the PPI was 
charged under the heading of Payments Insurance. lf shed not given her consent I think 
Miss E have been prompted to ask what the charges were for. Theres no evidence she did 
this, so again, I think its much more likely she agreed to the PPI as outlined on the form.
I cant say whether or not Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss E as part of an advised 
sale, but if it did so, it had to check that the PPI was right for her. In my view, the evidence 
about Miss Es circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong 
or unsuitable for her. For example, she was eligible for the cover and she had few other 
means to fall back on in the event of something unexpected happening, such as losing her 
job or being unable to work. 
So overall, noting that the PPI could have paid 10% of her existing credit card balance for up 
to a year if shed needed to claim, this would have been in addition to any other means she 
had. Miss Es representative said she had had an operation in the 1980s and also a joint 
injury. These issues, however, relate to many years before the PPI sale and they appear to 
be medical conditions that were suitably addressed at the time. 
I also note the PPI probably had certain rules relating to claims about back pain and mental 
health. However, I cant see these rules would have affected Miss E and I doubt whether she 
would have expected to claim for these without at least providing some evidence. So I think 
the policy was suitable for her and recommending it wasnt unreasonable.
Its obviously possible the information Lloyds gave to Miss E about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been, but as Ive said, she chose to take it out so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. It wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying 
from the information she was likely given at the point of sale. It also looks like it was 
affordable for her and useful if something went wrong. I therefore dont think Miss E would 
have declined the policy even if Lloyds could have done a better job at explaining things.
Miss Es representative raised a number of what I consider to be general points, which it 
says apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI 
complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with a low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost 
good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance 
of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances of making a claim.
But Miss Es representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Es individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. 
Ive thought about these and how they might apply in Miss Es particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss E.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Miss E about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Miss E was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss E because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Miss Es representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint. In summary they have said Miss E should get back 
all the money she paid for the policy because: Lloyds failed to tell Miss E about the high 
commission and profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and 
exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find 
that Miss E wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission 
and she should receive a refund of all the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipabout mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Miss E in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level 
of commission to her before she purchased the policy. So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Miss Es representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Miss E paid for her PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness because it leaves Miss E with the policy Ive concluded above she 
would still have taken out if Lloyds had done everything it should have done  but with lower 
commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloydss subsequent offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances.
 
my decision
I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Miss Es complaint or make any award for this part.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Miss E an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). I 
understand it has already paid this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2021. 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman