DRN-4101285
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with how One Insurance Limited handled a claim she made on her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs G was involved in an accident with another driver. Shes unhappy with how the claim 
was handled, including the service she received and One Insurances decision to proceed on 
the basis that the accident was an at fault incident. Mrs G said One Insurance had 
overlooked important evidence, such as not getting a police report. 
One Insurance Limited issued a final response explaining that they didnt think theyd be able 
to successfully defend the claim. They acknowledged there had been issues with the service 
Mrs G received and offered £100 compensation. Mrs G referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mrs Gs complaint in part. She 
didnt think One Insurance had acted unreasonably when deciding liability or declining to 
provide a courtesy car. However, she did identify that the communication with Mrs G wasnt 
always clear and agreed there were issues with the service she received. So, she 
recommended One Insurance increase the compensation to £200. 
One Insurance didnt agree saying that they didnt know Mrs G was injured at the time. Our 
investigator highlighted evidence from calls and live chats which showed this information 
was passed on to them. One Insurance didnt respond to our investigator. 
Mrs G thought £500 compensation would be fair. She thought the police report was 
important evidence. And she also queried whether the investigator had taken into account 
the damage to the car, bearing in mind it was written off, and highlighted the overall service 
shed received. 
So, the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One Insurance has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt 
reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive taken into account all Mrs Gs comments and the evidence shes provided. But Ill focus 
on the key points which are central to my decision. 
Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint in part, but I think £200 compensation is fair and reasonable 
because: 
I dont think One Insurance reached an unreasonable decision on liability for the 
accident. I think their decision was reasonable based on the available evidence 
including the damage to the car, the available witness testimony and the information 
Once Insurance referred to in the highway code. They explained to Mrs G, in 
summary, why theyd reached that opinion. 
Mrs G feels that One Insurance should have got a police report. I dont think it was 
unreasonable that they didnt get one. They had lots of other evidence and I think it 
was reasonable to rely upon what they had in the circumstances of this case. One 
Insurance said the initial liability decision was based on the information Mrs G had 
provided so far. 
In any event, even if the police report said the accident wasnt Mrs Gs fault, One 
Insurance isnt bound to accept the polices opinion. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for One Insurance not to obtain that information. They are entitled to 
consider the overall evidence and I think theyve reached a reasonable conclusion 
based on that evidence. 
The policy terms and conditions dont allow for a courtesy car where Mrs Gs vehicle 
is deemed a total loss. So, Mrs G wasnt entitled to one under the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Mrs G has mentioned shes being prosecuted for this matter. Ive seen a letter from 
the relevant police force which asks Mrs G for information about the accident. Thats 
not something One Insurance is responsible for. Thats a matter for the police and 
the Crown Prosecution Service. 
Since Mrs G referred her complaint to The Financial Ombudsman Service other 
events have taken place. For example, I understand that Mrs G has received a threat 
of legal proceedings from the other drivers insurer. I can understand why that was 
worrying and upsetting. However, this is something that happened after Mrs G 
referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. So, its not something I 
can comment on as part of this complaint. If Mrs G is unhappy about other issues 
which have arisen since One Insurances final response, shell need to make a 
further complaint to them.
I dont think Mrs G received a good level of customer service. She often had to chase 
for updates and communication wasnt always clear. I think a total of £200 fairly 
reflects the impact on Mrs G. Its clear she was worried and recovering from her 
injuries at the time. I think One Insurance ought to have been aware from the 
information provided that she had received more than minor injuries. I dont think 
£500 fairly reflects the impact. I think £200 compensation fairly reflects the distress 
and inconvenience caused.  
Putting things right
One Insurance Limited needs to pay Mrs G a total of £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by poor customer service.   
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint in part and direct One Insurance Limited to put things right 
in the way Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman