DRN-2097489
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled and settled a claim they 
made under their home insurance policy for storm damage to their roof. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr B hold a policy of home insurance, which is provided by Aviva. This policy was 
incepted in early 2019 and a copy of the policy terms and schedule were made available to 
Mrs and Mr B at around that time.
On 27 January 2020 Mrs and Mr B said they noticed water ingress through their ceiling. 
They thought the source of water ingress was where their pitched roof met their flat roof. And 
they believed stormy weather conditions had caused four tiles to be lifted from the roof of 
their house. 
Mrs and Mr B thought this adverse weather caused the roof damage and subsequent water 
ingress into their property. So, they arranged for a roofer to attend and assess the damage 
to their roof. Their roofer provided them with a quote of the remedial work required and 
stated missing roof tiles were as a result of heavy storms.
Mrs and Mr B contacted Aviva in order to make a claim under their policy for storm damage. 
Aviva appointed a loss adjuster, which Ill refer to as H in this decision, to attend Mrs and 
Mr Bs property and determine a cause of damage. 
Following Hs inspection of Mrs and Mr Bs roof it advised that the damage observed was not 
due to a one off storm event. Instead, it considered the damage to be historic and 
longstanding. It also commented that there was evidence of many poorly undertaken DIY 
repairs to different areas of the roof surface. 
Given the content on Hs report, Aviva repudiated Mrs and Mr Bs claim. It explained that age 
related wear and tear and poor workmanship issues were excluded under their policy. It also 
didnt identify any storms at around the time Mrs and Mr B said theyd experienced water 
ingress.
But Mrs and Mr B disagreed with Avivas assessment of their claim. They felt it hadnt 
properly considered the circumstances of what had happened. So, they complained that 
Avivas decision to decline their claim was unfair.
Aviva investigated Mrs and Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. It maintained its decision to 
decline their claim as it didnt think the main cause of the damage had been a one-off storm 
event.  
Being dissatisfied with Avivas response to their complaint, Mrs and Mr B referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into what had happened, but they werent satisfied there 
was a storm at around the time the damage had occurred. They also agreed with Hs opinion 
on the cause of damage and they werent persuaded the damage to Mrs and Mr Bs roof had 
occurred due to an insured event. So, they didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly in declining 
to cover their claim and they didnt recommend upholding their complaint as a result. But Mrs 
and Mr B disagreed and asked an ombudsman to review their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mrs and Mr B have gone to some trouble to provide our service with some detailed 
submissions. Its clear they feel very strongly that their claim should be met. I want to assure 
them that Ive read everything theyve sent us. I hope theyll understand if I dont address 
every comment theyve made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is 
key to the complaint  namely whether Aviva acted reasonably in declining this claim. And Ill 
explain why I think it has.
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mrs and Mr Bs roof. However, theres a 
disagreement between the parties about the cause of the damage and correct outcome of 
this claim.  
Mrs and Mr B have complained that Aviva didnt properly assess their claim. They believe 
their roof was damaged by stormy weather and high winds and they want Aviva to cover the 
damage to their property as a result. 
Mrs and Mr Bs insurance policy provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that 
might happen. These are specific one-off events that are listed within an insurance policy 
and they cover damage caused, for example, by storm etc. Where a policyholder makes a 
claim, its their responsibility to prove the damage was caused by an insured event. So here, 
for a claim to be accepted under the storm peril, Mrs and Mr B would have to show that any 
damage was the direct result of a single weather event. 
I can see Mrs and Mr B have asked our investigator to consider damage that occurred in 
March 2020. But based on the available evidence here, Im satisfied the relevant date of loss 
is 27 January 2020. I say this because this is when Mrs and Mr B informed Aviva they had 
noticed water ingress into their property. Im therefore satisfied their complaint relates to the 
storm they say they experienced in January 2020. And for that reason, Im going to address 
events leading up to that date only within this final decision.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mrs and Mr Bs complaint and all the evidence with these three 
questions in mind. As our investigator explained, all three questions need to be answered 
affirmatively for this service to be able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mrs and Mr Bs policy doesnt define the 
word storm. This isnt unusual. And in that scenario this service takes the view that a storm 
generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. When looking a 
wind speed, we generally consider wind speeds of 47 mph or above to be consistent with a 
storm. Ive carefully reviewed weather records of Mrs and Mr Bs locality during the week leading up 
to 27 January 2020 with what they told our service about the stormy weather conditions they 
experienced in mind. But, like our investigator, I havent found any evidence of any storms or 
wind speeds recorded of 47mph or above. Instead, the wind speed recorded on 27 January 
2020 was 24mph with 29mph being recorded the previous day, which was the highest wind 
speed recorded within a week of Mrs and Mr B noticing the water ingress. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr B but there isnt enough evidence to satisfy me there was 
a storm at around the time the roof damage occurred. And, as Im not persuaded that a 
storm occurred, I dont need to go on to address questions two or three as outlined above. 
So, I cant uphold Mr and Mrs Bs storm claim.
Ive mentioned in the background to this complaint that Mrs and Mr Bs policy excludes 
damage that is caused by age-related wear and tear or poor workmanship. This is in 
common with most home insurance policies because insurance is intended to cover the 
unforeseen  and something wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
If an insurer wishes to decline a claim based on a policy exclusion it has to show that this is 
how the damage happened. In this case Aviva relies on Hs opinion that the damage was 
caused by age-related wear and tear and poor workmanship. 
Ive carefully studied the report from H and think it clearly explains its view as to the cause of 
the roof damage here. Its evident H went onto the roof in order to examine its condition and 
determine what had caused the water ingress, which shows a thorough and proper 
inspection of Mrs and Mr Bs roof was undertaken on Avivas behalf. 
H identified many DIY repairs to different placed on the roof surface. Its said the lower 
epoxy resin flat roof is in poor condition and the roof coverage is cracked. Overall, it feels the 
condition of the roof is poor and the DIY repairs have been poorly undertaken. Its also 
examined online satellite photographs that have been taken of Mrs and Mr Bs roof, which 
have shown the repairs were historic. Given the repairs that had been undertaken, I think on 
balance Mrs and Mr B must have been aware of the problems with their roof. Im also 
persuaded that the photographs Ive seen support what H has said about the condition of the 
roof.
Its clear Mrs and Mr B dont accept Hs comments about the cause of damage. But H is a 
recognised organisation that regularly assesses property damage on behalf of insurers. And 
our service thinks its right for an insurer to instruct companies with expertise to inspect a 
customers property to assist it in determining the cause of damage. 
I dont think Aviva acted unfairly in using the information H had provided in order to assess 
and decline Mrs and Mr Bs claim on the basis that the damage to their roof had been 
caused by age-related wear and tear and poor workmanship. I appreciate their roofer stated 
the roof tiles were missing as a result of heavy storms. But theres no evidence they 
undertook as thorough an inspection of the roof as H did. 
In the overall circumstances, Im more persuaded by the content of Hs report here. Im 
satisfied Aviva has shown our service reliable evidence to demonstrate that the damage to 
Mrs and Mr Bs roof was caused age-related wear and tear and poor workmanship. 
Theres no compelling evidence that the damage to Mrs and Mr Bs roof was caused by a 
one-off storm event, which is what is covered by their policy. I think its, most likely, that the 
adverse weather they experienced in January 2020 highlighted the poor condition of, and 
pre-existing issues with, the roof and caused it to worsen. I know Mrs and Mr B will be disappointed with this decision; they feel very strongly about the 
issues raised in his complaint. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, its clear to me that 
their roof has been in a very poor condition for some time prior to 27 January 2020. Im 
persuaded the deterioration of their roof happened over a long period of time and was 
caused by both age-related wear and tear and poorly undertaken repairs. It follows that Im 
satisfied Aviva acted reasonably in declining Mrs and Mr Bs claim. And this means it 
wouldnt be fair to require it to pay this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman