DRN-4179054
The complaint
Mr M complains that money was taken from his bank accounts with Metro Bank PLC. 
What happened
Mr M had several bank accounts with Metro. He rang Metro at the beginning of 
January 2023 as he had concerns that there was suspicious activity on his accounts  he 
thought money had gone missing. He was concerned that there was an underlying IT issue 
and asked for a ticket to be raised with the IT department.  
Mr M was unhappy with the customer service he received from several Metro advisors and 
raised a complaint. At that stage the question of whether money was going missing from his 
account was unresolved. 
Metro didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said at the time he spoke to one of the advisers, 
they hadnt been able to escalate Mr Ms IT concerns as he wasnt able to pass the correct 
level of security. Metro also said it was unable to identify any instances of Metro advisers 
being unprofessional. 
Mr M remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this Service. He said Metro had taken 
small amounts of money from his account and he also complained about the service 
provided by Metro. 
When this Service contacted Metro it told us that money had not disappeared from Mr Ms 
account. It said that one of its advisers explained to Mr M how transactions that hadnt yet 
been taken from his account, and so were listed as pending, would be taken from his 
account in the early hours of the morning. So if he had checked his balance in the early 
hours, then he would likely have seen his balance change. Metro told this Service that there 
had been no suspicious activity on Mr Ms account and there were no IT issues.
    
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said the calls between Mr M and the 
Metro advisers were challenging but he didnt think the Metro advisers made any errors 
when speaking to Mr M. Our Investigator also said that Metro checked money coming into 
and out of Mr Ms account during one specific month and couldnt see that anything was 
wrong. Our Investigator said the balance of Mr Ms account was checked and there were no 
concerns.
Mr M didnt agree with what our Investigator said so this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question for me to look at here is whether Metro dealt with Mr Ms concerns about 
money going missing from his accounts in a fair and reasonable way. 
When Mr M contacted Metro he said he thought there was fraudulent activity on his accounts 
and that money was going missing. One of the Metro advisers took him through some of the 
very recent transactions on one of his accounts and Mr M confirmed that none of these were 
suspicious. Mr M said that the money going missing wasnt showing up on his account as an 
outgoing transaction  he thought there was an underlying IT issue with Metros systems that 
meant his balance was being reduced without there being a corresponding transaction 
showing money was leaving his account. 
For its part, Metro has said it has reviewed Mr Ms accounts and there has been no unusual 
or suspicious activity and that it cant see that there are any IT issues. 
I can see that when Mr M spoke to one of the Metro advisers he was provided with 
information about how pending transactions  so recent transactions that arent yet on his 
statement  were being dealt with at that point in time. It was suggested to him that this 
might explain why his account balance was changing. When Mr M later spoke to a different 
adviser, they spent time going through his recent transactions with him to see if they could 
pinpoint any unusual activity. Metro said it didnt think it needed to raise a ticket with its IT 
department as theres no evidence that anything had gone wrong here. 
I can see that one of the reasons Mr M thought there was unusual activity on one of his 
accounts was that the amount of money he paid out of his account in one month exceeded 
the amount of money he paid in. He thought this shouldnt be possible as it would mean he 
had a negative balance, which I understand is not possible on that particular account. But if 
Mr M had a credit balance on his account at the end of any given month, then this would 
allow more money to be paid out than was paid in. 
Ive looked at all of the information provided by Mr M and Metro. One of the difficulties here 
is that theres no trace of any unauthorised transactions leaving Mr Ms account. I know he 
believes that theres an IT issue that means it isnt obvious that money is leaving his 
account, but I would have expected Mr M to be able to show that he has in some way lost 
money  so he has less money than he thinks he should have in his account. So without any 
evidence to show money is leaving his account, and without any evidence that he has 
actually lost money, I cant see that he has suffered a financial loss.
So I think that Metro has dealt with Mr Ms complaint in a fair and reasonable way, and as Mr 
M hasnt provided evidence that hes suffered a financial loss, then Metro dont need to take 
any further action. 
Mr M is also unhappy that several of the Metro advisers ended calls with him. He doesnt 
think they should be allowed to do this, unless a consumer becomes rude or abusive. But I 
think that calls can be ended if they become unproductive and Im satisfied thats what 
happened here. Ill explain why I say this. 
Ive listened to all of the calls in question and Mr M was, at times, clearly frustrated with what 
was being said to him, and there were times when this frustration led to the calls becoming 
unproductive. When I say that the calls became unproductive, I mean that the conversations 
moved away from dealing with the issue at hand and there was nothing to be gained by the 
conversation continuing. So while I appreciate that Mr M rang to discuss concerns he had 
about his account, I think it was reasonable for Metro advisers to end the calls when they 
became unproductive. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr M, but I dont think Metro made any errors here or 
dealt with him unfairly and I wont be asking it to take further action. My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman