DRN-2188897
The complaint
Mr M complains about the decision by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
to terminate his income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr M is covered by his employers group income protection scheme. The scheme provides 
benefit in the event the insured cant work in their previous role (known as own occupation 
definition of incapacity). After five years of a claim being in payment, the cover changes. For 
payments to continue, the claimant would need to be unable to work in an occupation to 
which they are suited by way of training, education or experience (known as suited 
occupation definition of incapacity). 
Mr M stopped work in 2011 after experiencing heart problems. He made a claim under the 
policy. The claim was accepted from 2012. Mr M remained off work and so in August 2017, 
the definition of incapacity switched from own occupation to suited occupation. 
In July 2018, L&G concluded that Mr M didnt meet the suited occupation definition of 
incapacity. It thought he could carry out alternative roles, with some adjustments. It therefore 
terminated the claim, though confirmed it would continue to pay this for the next three 
months. Unhappy with this, Mr M has brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it had been 
reasonable for L&G to conclude that Mr M could carry out other roles that were suitable for 
him (albeit with adjustments), and therefore terminate the claim.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy defines suited occupation as: 
means the insured member is incapacitated by an illness or injury so that he is unable to 
undertake any occupation which we consider appropriate to his experience, training or 
education.
For the purposes of this definition an occupation will not be considered to be inappropriate to 
an insured members experience, training or education on the grounds that:
(i) The pay from such occupation may be lower than that paid to the insured member 
prior to the deferred period in relation to his own job or lower than the amount of 
members benefit, or
(ii) Such occupation lacks the status or seniority associated with the insured members 
own job.
For this definition own job means the essential duties required of the insured member in his 
occupation immediately before the start of the deferred period.
In terminating the claim, the onus falls to L&G to show that Mr M could work in a suited 
occupation. Ive therefore looked at the medical evidence leading up to the date L&G 
terminated Mr Ms claim, to see if this supported L&Gs view that Mr M could work in a suited 
occupation. 
In 2014, Mr Ms treating consultant cardiologist (Dr S) said that Mr M had undergone an 
angiogram in April 2013 which demonstrated moderate disease within the right coronary 
artery within a diagonal vessel and within the circumflex vessel, none of which appeared to 
have progressed since 2011, and none of which appeared flow limiting. He said he could 
see no physical reason why Mr M could not work beyond of course the general advice that 
he should avoid if possible excessive stress in the workplace. He confirmed Mr M had been 
discharged back to the care of his GP. 
In 2015, Mr Ms GP (Dr W) explained that the significant issue that was preventing Mr M 
from gainful employment was his cardiovascular health and not his emotional wellbeing. 
Dr W confirmed that Mr M had had two heart attacks at a young age, both of which had 
occurred while undertaking his previous stressful employment, and his cardiologist had 
recommended that further similar stress be avoided at all costs. 
After experiencing a disc prolapse, Mr M had surgery for this in July 2017. Following the 
surgery, his trauma and orthopaedic surgeon (Mr B) said that hed support a gradual 
structural rehabilitation programme that would facilitate returning to work, but Mr Ms ability 
to work would depend on his recovery and physio programme. 
Following his back surgery, Mr M had regular physio. In January 2018, he reported that his 
back pain had improved. 
Also in January 2018, Mr M had a Transferable Skills Assessment (TSA). The aim of that 
assessment was to establish whether he had transferable skills for other suitable 
occupations. The report (dated March 2018) found that Mr M did have transferable skills for 
other occupations, and suggested some roles for him - Finance Director/Associate 
Director/Senior Manager within the Public Sector or a Director of Finance. 
In April 2018, Mr M was reviewed by an occupational health physician (Dr H). The report 
cant be read in its entirety, but I see Dr H thought that Mr M couldnt work in his former role, 
based on the long period of absence, the high volume of hours, and reported stress in this 
job. However, Dr H was of the view that he was fit to work in an alternative role if available. 
Though Dr H did think that reasonable adjustments may need to be made, such as a 
workstation assessment and regular changes of posture. She also thought Mr M may need 
time to attend physio appointments. She said those adjustments were likely to be necessary 
in the medium to long term, and until at least August 2018.
Also in April 2018, Mr M had a functional capacity assessment (FCA). The aim of this was to 
assess his ability to perform certain tasks. Based on Mr Ms performance during this 
assessment, it was thought he could undertake light demand level work on a part-time basis, 
and then within three to six months, he would be able to return to full-time hours  though 
this was on the provision that an increase in hours didnt place him under undue stress. The 
report said that Mr M was not safe to return to his former occupation, nor to the two formerly 
suggested alterative roles of Finance Director or Public/Third Sector. The reason for that was because it was thought the roles were too stressful for Mr M. It was thought he may be 
able to manage within an accountants post as he held the necessary qualifications, but this 
would be dependent on the stressors within the job. 
The findings of the FCA report make it clear that the roles suggested by the March 2018 
TSA report were senior roles, and would therefore be too stressful for Mr M. Whilst I 
appreciate that Mr M does have the transferable skills for the roles identified by the TSA, Im 
minded to agree with the FCA findings on this. Its accepted by Mr Ms medical practitioners 
that he cant work in his previous occupation because of the level of stress involved with that 
role, and it seems to me that the roles suggested by the TSA would be just as stressful, 
given the level of seniority involved. 
However, the FCA report did suggest the role of an accountant for Mr M, as he has the 
qualifications to be able to this role. Also, given Mr Ms qualifications and work experience, I 
think its also reasonable to conclude that he could do more junior roles in the areas in which 
hes previously worked, as these wouldnt have the same level of stress associated with 
senior management type roles, as it is the perceived stress of the senior roles which makes 
them unsuitable. 
On that basis, I think it was reasonable for L&G to conclude at this point that Mr M could 
work in a suited occupation and terminate the claim. The medical evidence supported that 
he could work either with adjustments, or work part-time at first, and then increase to full-
time hours by October 2018.  Although L&G terminated the claim in July 2018, the payments 
continued until October 2018, which I think was fair. 
Mr M then appealed against L&Gs decision, and so L&G agreed to consider later medical 
evidence to see if this showed that he couldnt work in a suited occupation when it had 
terminated his claim. 
In September 2018, Mr M went to see his trauma and orthopaedic surgeon (Mr B) after 
experiencing a sudden onset of back pain. He was taken to hospital and given pain 
medication. Mr B arranged an MRI in case there was a further disc prolapse, but there 
wasnt. Mr B thought the problem would settle with time. 
Mr M was then reviewed by Mr B in October 2018. Mr B said that Mr M had told him that 
things had improved but had not completely settled and he was still getting pain. He found 
that standing was reasonably comfortable, but if he sat for more than an hour, he got quite 
significant pain. 
In January 2019, Mr M had an occupational health assessment over the phone with Dr L. 
She said that Mr M didnt appear to have any cardiac symptoms or limitation, and that his 
active symptoms related to his back and mental health. She said he experienced right sided 
back pain on a daily basis, and described being able to stand and can walk for 40-50 
minutes, but found sitting painful. He continued to have physio every two weeks. He also 
said his mood had been low. 
Dr L thought that Mr Ms back pain meant that a return to his insured role or any role 
requiring regular long commuting would be challenging. She said that if a role could be found 
for him that was more regular hours and was more amenable to him working from home or a 
location where he could have access to a sit-stand desk, then in principle a return could be 
achieved. She also thought he would benefit from further mental health input and alteration 
of medication, and also said he would need significant psychological support if he were to 
return to the workplace. In February 2019, Mr Ms physiotherapist explained hed been having physio treatment since 
February 2016. He then had surgery in July 2017 and started rehabilitation in October 2017. 
She said that both the pain in his lumbar spine and muscle spasm in the paravertebral 
muscles varied from mild to severe. She further explained that his symptoms were 
aggravated by flexion type activities, such as prolonged sitting, bending forwards, lifting and 
twisting. She didnt comment on his ability to work. 
L&G also obtained some further information from Mr Ms GP. In June 2019. the GP 
confirmed that there were no current prescriptions for pain medication, however Mr M 
continued to be prescribed antidepressants.
Then in July 2019, L&G referred Mr M for a further TSA. The report concluded that Mr M had 
transferable skills for other occupations, such as project administrator, career coach/learning 
mentor, budget adviser/financial planning adviser. 
L&G concluded that Mr M had experienced an acute exacerbation of his back pain in late 
2019, but it didnt think the evidence supported continued incapacity as a result of this. 
I appreciate that Mr M experienced a further problem with his back, but this happened after 
L&G had terminated the claim and doesnt show that he couldnt work in a suited occupation 
at the time the claim was terminated. Though even after this event, it appears his back pain 
then improved, and he was thought to be able to work (with adjustments).
The later TSA also supports that Mr M could work in other occupations that werent as senior 
as the roles suggested by the previous TSA, though I appreciate Mr M doesnt think he could 
do these roles. 
I note that Dr L had made reference to Mr Ms mental health. Mr M was being prescribed 
anti-depressant medication, and I understand hed previously had some mental health 
therapy. However, Ive checked his GP records throughout 2018 (when the claim was 
terminated), and there was no therapy taking place at this time and no evidence to suggest 
that Mr Ms mental health prevented him from working.
Consequently, Im satisfied that L&Gs decision to terminate the claim when it did was 
reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman