DRN-1731914
 
The complaint
Mr B and Miss F complain that Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey) mis-sold them a 
regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy when they took out a 
mortgage in 1997. They say the policy wasnt optional  they had to take it to be granted the 
mortgage; and they didnt need the policy because they had a good level of sick pay from 
their employers if theyd been off work. Mr B also told us he couldnt have been made 
redundant  so the policy was unsuitable for him  he could never have claimed on the 
unemployment part of the policy. 
What happened
Mr B and Miss F purchased a MPPI policy when they took out their mortgage. They applied 
for a mortgage and at the same time bought a policy that provided protection in the event 
either of them wasnt working due to accident, sickness or unemployment.
The cost of the policy is unknown, but Abbey says it wouldve provided a monthly benefit that 
would cover their mortgage repayments in the event of a successful claim. The policy 
wouldve paid out for up to 24 months for a successful claim.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr B and Miss F disagree so the 
complaint comes to me to decide. They say that in view of their circumstances they didnt 
need the policy and couldnt benefit from all of it  the advice to purchase it was therefore 
unsuitable.
I issued my provisional decision in March 2020 and I explained that I was thinking of 
upholding this complaint. I said that:
The policy and the mortgage were taken out more than 20 years ago and the policy was 
terminated more than 15 years ago  so its understandable that neither party has much 
information about the sale. Theres no paperwork or documentation about the cover; the cost 
of the policy or the benefit it provided. So, in these situations, I have to make my decision 
based on what I think is more likely to have happened. Abbey suggests that this was a joint 
policy covering both Mr B and Miss F and it says it wouldve provided them both with 
protection in the event that either wasnt working due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Abbey says it advised Mr B and Miss F to purchase the policy, so it needed to take account 
of their circumstances and make sure that the MPPI was right for them. But having 
considered what both parties told us, I dont think the advice to purchase the policy was 
suitable.
I say this having taken into account Mr Bs employment circumstances; these indicate that 
he didnt need any unemployment cover  he was unlikely to ever be able to claim for 
unemployment. And he also had a very good level of work benefits in the event he wasnt working due to an accident or illness. Taking this into account, I dont think advising them 
that Mr B needed MPPI was a suitable recommendation
I set out how I thought Santander UK Plc needed to compensate Mr B and Miss F and I 
invited both parties to let me have any further representations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B and Miss F confirmed that theyd received and read the provisional decision but had no 
further information or evidence for me to consider. Santander confirmed it had also received 
the provisional decision and it accepted it. It agreed to settle this complaint and said it would 
make the required compensation payment upon receipt of this Services acceptance form 
signed by Mr B and Miss F.
As neither party has provided any further information to alter my opinion of this complaint, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
Putting things right
Mr B and Miss F should be returned to the position they wouldve been in if they hadnt been 
sold the insurance. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt already been cancelled. 
Abbey should; 
 
Pay Mr B and Miss F the amount they paid each month for the MPPI
 
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
If Mr B and Miss F made a successful claim under the MPPI policy, Abbey can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Abbey to take off tax from this interest. Abbey must give 
Mr B and Miss F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionMy final decision it that I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to pay fair 
compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss F to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman