DRN-3715715
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited declined a partial settlement offer 
she made. 
What happened
In 2020 Link acquired a debt in Mrs Ts name that related to a credit card. Earlier this year, 
Mrs T contacted Link and asked it to accept a settlement offer of 40% of the outstanding 
balance. Link declined and made a counteroffer to settle for 80% of the outstanding balance. 
Mrs T went back to Link and offered a 50% settlement but it didnt accept. 
Mrs T complained and explained other creditors had agreed settlements with her on a similar 
basis. Link issued a final response but didnt agree it had acted unfairly by declining Mrs Ts 
offer. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Ts complaint. They said Link wasnt under an 
obligation to accept a partial settlement but that it needed to ensure any offers of repayment 
were affordable. Mrs T asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs T has been able to agree partial settlements with other lenders, but each 
business is free to decide how to operate and what basis to accept repayment of debts. Link 
has to ensure it treats Mrs T positively and sympathetically if shes experiencing financial 
difficulties. And that means it should take steps to ensure any repayment arrangements that 
are agreed are affordable and sustainable for Mrs T. But theres no obligation on Link to 
accept a partial settlement. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs T, but in the circumstances of her case, I cant tell Link to accept 
a partial settlement. Links final response confirms it will consider settlement offers Mrs T 
makes on an individual basis. And I can see it made a counteroffer to accept 80% of the 
outstanding balance earlier this year. Im satisfied Link considered the offer Mrs T made and 
that its decision to make a counteroffer was reasonable. Should Mrs T make further offers in 
the future, Id expect Link to consider them as set out in its final response. 
As Im satisfied Link dealt with Mrs Ts complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman