DRN-3710278
The complaint
Miss R complains Aviva Insurance Limited have unfairly declined to provide legal expenses 
insurance cover to pursue a claim against her former employers insurers.
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes their agents and claims handlers acting on their behalf. 
Miss Rs representatives have corresponded with us on her behalf from time to time. For 
ease, I refer to Miss R throughout.
What happened
In June 2019 Miss R was made redundant by her employer. She contacted Aviva to make 
a claim, (the first claim), on her legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy to pursue a claim for, 
amongst other things, unfair dismissal against her employer.
Aviva appointed their panel solicitors to advise on the prospects of successfully pursuing 
such a claim. The solicitors said the prospects of winning certain aspects of her case were 
good. But the chances of recovering any award was low since the employer was 
understood to be in liquidation, and it would be disproportionate to pursue the case.
Miss R told the solicitors her employer had insurance that would cover any award the 
employment tribunal made in her favour. The solicitors asked her to provide evidence of 
that insurance. When she didnt, Aviva declined the first claim and didnt hear further from 
Miss R at the time.
Miss R represented herself at tribunal proceedings and was successful. She attempted to 
recover her award from the employers insurers. When they refused to pay, she appointed 
her own solicitors to pursue them. And she made another claim on her LEI policy for the 
costs of doing so (the second claim). Aviva declined the second claim on grounds it didnt 
fall within the terms of the policy.
Miss R complained. She said:
Aviva had unreasonably refused to cover the first claim.
She hadnt been able to access her employers insurance policy to provide 
proof it would pay any award she got at the tribunal, as she was no longer 
working for the employer.
Aviva and their panel solicitors ought to have followed up with the broker shed told 
them could provide proof. If theyd done that, Aviva would have covered the claim. 
If theyd covered the claim, the employers insurers would have been made party 
to the legal claim under the Third Party (Rights Against Insurers) Act 2010.
Since her claim had succeeded, the employers insurers would have been obliged 
to pay the award. And the enforcement proceedings she now wanted to pursue 
would be covered under the policy.
Aviva said it had been Miss Rs responsibility under the policy to provide evidence to 
support the first claim. Theyd told her that at the time. And theyd also explained theyd 
review her claim, in line with the policy terms and conditions, if she provided advice from 
another lawyer that supported her claim.
Aviva said the second claim didnt fall within the Consumer Disputes section shed 
claimed under since Miss R didnt have a contract with the employers insurers. Miss R 
later agreed but said it fell under the Employment Disputes section instead. Aviva said that 
section didnt apply since her claim against the employers insurer wasnt related to her 
dispute with her employer. She was seeking a declaration against the insurers under the 
2010 Act that they were liable to pay her award.
Since Aviva didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint, she brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator thought Aviva had reasonably declined to cover the first 
claim. He said theyd been entitled to rely on their panel lawyers advice about the 
prospects of success and proportionality of pursuing a claim against the employer. Under 
the policy, it was up to Miss R to provide evidence to support her claim. And Aviva had 
fairly agreed to review her claim if she provided a supportive view from another lawyer at 
her own expense. But he thought Aviva could have asked the panel lawyers to contact 
the broker.
Our investigator considered what would have happened if their panel lawyers had been 
in contact with the employers insurers. He couldnt be certain, but he thought it was 
unlikely the insurers would have agreed to pay her award since she was now having to 
take legal action against them. And it was likely Miss R would have had to take legal 
action against them in any event.
To put things right, our investigator thought Aviva should pay Miss R £200 for the distress 
and inconvenience shed suffered because of Aviva not following up on enquiries about 
the employers insurance. 
Neither Miss R nor Aviva accepted our investigators view.
Miss R said:
1. The LEI covered employment disputes; the employers insurers accept they 
should have been included in the employment tribunal proceedings; if they had 
been it wouldnt be necessary to take enforcement proceedings against them 
now.
2. Because Aviva refused cover, Miss R didnt include the employers insurers in the 
proceedings because she wasnt represented; the insurers now dispute the 
award made in Miss Rs favour because they werent party to the tribunal 
proceedings and should have been included.
3. Aviva is now refusing to provide cover to pursue the employers insurers 
notwithstanding the policy would have covered the claim against them if the 
solicitors had correctly assessed the claim at the outset.
4. The claim Miss R is now making against the employers insurers is still an 
employment dispute, like the claim she made against her former employer. Under 
the 2010 Act Miss R could have made her employment claim direct against the 
employers insurers if theyd been party to the tribunal proceedings as they ought 
to have been.
5. The employers insurers have raised issues concerning Miss Rs employment 
claim and entitlement to compensation. There remains a dispute about employment issues  so the dispute falls within the policy definition of Employment 
Disputes.
6. Miss Rs loss is the cost of legal services to pursue the employers insurers now 
and the £200 compensation our investigator felt was fair to put things right doesnt 
compensate for that cost. Aviva should cover the costs of pursuing the claim 
against the employers insurers.
7. There was an obvious error in the solicitors advice. The solicitor said the claim 
would not be proportionate to pursue because it was uncertain whether her former 
employer was still trading. Miss R had pointed out the case was proportionate 
since the employer was insured. Miss R, as a lay person, had spotted the error. 
The solicitors should have known the employers insurers could have been brought 
into the proceedings under the 2010 Act. They should have contacted the insurers 
to check the claim was covered. And, if they had, the reason for declining cover on 
grounds of proportionality would no longer have applied.
8. Our investigators view about what would have happened if Aviva had asked the 
panel solicitors to contact the employers insurers is wrong. The insurers would 
have confirmed cover, issues about proportionality would have gone away and 
Aviva would have covered the claim. If the insurers had been included in the 
proceedings, they would have been liable to pay any award the tribunal made in 
Miss Rs favour.
9. Although the employers insurers may have disputed Miss Rs claim in the 
employment tribunal, she would have had legal representation to challenge their 
arguments. The arguments relate to employment issues which are covered under 
the policy.
Aviva said:
1. Miss Rs claim against the employers insurers is for a declaration the award she 
got against her former employer is covered; enforcement proceedings would be 
done through a different process.
2. Our investigator had agreed they were right to decline the second claim since 
Miss Rs dispute with the employers insurer was about access to the insurance 
that pays out on a case shed already won, not about the dispute with her former 
employer or breach of her employment rights. It follows that they wouldnt have 
covered the costs of including the employers insurers as party to the proceedings 
if theyd accepted the first claim  theyd have required an apportionment.
3. It was up to Miss R to provide evidence on prospects of recovery under the terms 
of the policy.
4. It was contradictory for the investigator to say, on the one hand, it isnt the role of 
an insurer to take action in relation to the legal claim, and, on the other, they could 
have asked the panel solicitors to follow up on whether the employers insurers 
would cover any damages awarded. On that basis they didnt agree they should 
pay Miss R any compensation.
Since the parties didnt agree with our investigators view, the complaint was passed to 
me to decide. I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im sorry to hear of Miss Rs difficult financial and personal circumstances over recent 
years. Im grateful for the information she and Aviva have provided in relation to Miss Rs 
complaint. The parties have raised some detailed arguments, which Ive summarised 
above.
As a general principle, wed expect an insurer to handle claims promptly and fairly, and 
not unreasonably reject a claim, in line with the relevant rules set out in the Financial 
Conduct Authority handbook. Ive considered Miss Rs complaint against that 
background.
The starting point is the LEI policy Miss R had with Aviva. Subject to its terms and 
conditions, Miss R had cover for legal costs and court fees up to £50,000 for events the 
policy covered. Although Miss R originally claimed under the Consumer Disputes 
section, the parties later agreed the potentially relevant event was Employment 
Disputes. 
Employment disputes covered:

A dispute with your employer regarding your contract of employment including 
unfair dismissal
A breach of your legal rights under employment law
Checking and advising on the terms of a settlement agreement. 
Under the heading Your cover and insured events the policy said that for the insured 
events set out in the policy, Aviva would pay agreed and authorised costs and expenses 
to

a) pursue or defend a claim for damages
b) pursue the enforcement of an agreement
c) seek an injunction
d) seek other legal remedy 
Aviva agreed to provide LEI cover on condition any claim had reasonable prospects of 
success and it was proportionate to pursue. That meant it had to be more likely than not 
she would recover damages or other compensation. And the costs of pursuing the claim 
had to be reasonable when compared to the amount she was seeking to recover. These 
are common terms in LEI policies which we generally consider to be fair and reasonable.
The first claim
Aviva appointed their panel solicitors, in line with the terms of the policy, to assess      
Miss Rs case, including the prospects of success. The solicitors thought there were 
reasonable prospects of winning the claim against the employer. But they didnt think it 
would be proportionate since the employer was in liquidation and the prospects of 
recovering any award the employment tribunal might make in Miss Rs favour were low.
 
Im aware Miss R was unhappy with the advice the panel lawyers gave. But shed need to 
raise any concerns about that with them. They were appointed to act on Miss Rs behalf 
even though they were advising on policy coverage for both her and Avivas benefit. Aviva 
were entitled to rely on their advice provided it wasnt obviously wrong. Miss R says the 
fact her employers had insurance that would pay an award she got made the advice 
obviously wrong as to prospects of success and proportionality. I dont agree. Neither the solicitors nor Aviva knew what the policy said when the solicitors gave the advice. And Im 
satisfied the fee earner providing the advice was suitably qualified and experienced. So, I 
think it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on the advice the lawyers gave.
The solicitors asked Miss R to provide evidence of the employers insurance. Instead    
Miss R thought the solicitors and Aviva ought to speak to the broker who was willing to 
discuss the cover with them, but they refused to do so.
The onus is on the policyholder to prove their claim falls within the term of their 
insurance cover. Miss Rs policy terms and conditions reflected that. Under the heading 
How to get assistance the policy said:
4 You will be asked to provide evidence.
Should you wish to pursue a claim the lawyer will need you to provide as much 
information as possible to support your case. This could include: copy of 
contracts, witness details, correspondence with anyone regarding your claim 
etc. You are responsible for providing evidence to support your cast [case] at 
your own cost.
This is a common requirement in LEI policies. It was clearly set out in Miss Rs policy 
and Aviva made the position clear to Miss R in correspondence. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Aviva to insist on seeing the policy.
Its not clear why Miss R wasnt able to provide it. I understand she managed to get hold of 
a copy of the policy wording from the broker in 2021. Its possible the broker was reluctant 
to release it in 2019, as they appear to have been initially in 2021. Whatever the position, I 
wouldnt expect Aviva to have made a decision on cover without a further view from the 
lawyers on prospects and proportionality. And its unlikely that would have been provided 
without the evidence of policy cover the lawyers had requested. Even if Aviva had 
contacted the broker or the insurers at the time, its not clear they would have provided the 
policy to Aviva if they hadnt given it to Miss R. So, Im not persuaded their coverage 
decision would have been any different.
Aviva told Miss R theyd review her claim in line with the policy terms if she could provide 
advice from her own lawyers to support her case. I think that was fair. And I dont think 
the approach Aviva took was unreasonable overall. Aviva didnt hear further from Miss R.
I dont agree, as Miss R has argued, that Avivas decision to decline her insurance claim led 
to the employers insurers not being joined to her legal claim. She decided to go ahead with 
her claim against the employer without legal representation. That was her choice. Even if 
the employers insurers had been party to those proceedings, its not certain the outcome 
would have been the same. Miss Rs told us, for example, the employers insurers have 
raised arguments about her entitlement to compensation. Even if I thought Avivas decision 
to decline the claim was unfair, I wouldnt conclude that what happened in Miss Rs claim 
against her employer resulted from Avivas decision, as its too speculative.
The second claim
Miss Rs described the action she now wishes to take against the employers insurers as 
enforcement proceedings. She says it follows on from the claim she made against her 
former employer which Aviva ought to have covered under the Employment Disputes section 
of the policy.I set out the cover provided under Your cover and insured events above. Arguably, the 
costs of taking action beyond obtaining a judgment arent covered under the policy at all. 
But Aviva declined the second claim on grounds Miss Rs applying for a declaration, under 
the 2010 Act, that the employers insurers should pay her award. They say its an 
insurance dispute, unrelated to the earlier dispute with her employer and not covered under 
the Employment Disputes section.
Ive considered the points the employers insurers have made in rejecting Miss Rs claim 
that they should pay her award. They argue, amongst other things, the tribunals judgment 
was flawed for procedural reasons. And they say Miss R must establish both that the 
employer is liable to her and that the insurer is liable to indemnify the employer in respect 
of its liability to Miss R.
I acknowledge those issues may well have been addressed if the employers insurers 
had been party to the tribunal proceedings. But they werent  and Ive explained why I 
dont think Aviva are to blame for that. Its right to consider Miss Rs second claim for 
cover separately. Miss Rs dispute is with her employers insurers, not her employer. And 
the issues involved go beyond those covered under the Employment Disputes section of 
the policy and enforcement proceedings following on from or forming part of the original 
employment dispute. So, I dont think the policy provides cover.
Bearing everything in mind, I dont think Aviva made mistakes in relation to the first claim or 
that it has unfairly declined the second claim. So, whilst I am sympathetic to Miss Rs 
difficult circumstances and appreciate she will be disappointed, I dont intend to uphold her 
complaint or award any compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold Miss Rs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R has said she wont be appealing my provisional decision. Aviva have made no 
comments on it. So, I see no reason to change my conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman