DRN-3745708
The complaint
Mr D complains that Brazier Consulting Services Ltd (BCS) failed to pursue mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claims which meant hes lost the opportunity to have his 
complaint investigated.
What happened
In 2019, Mr D said hed instructed BCS to pursue mis-sold PPI claims on his behalf, but after 
three years he still hadnt had a response about any of his claims. Mr D said hed about 15       
mis-sold PPI claims with BCS that covered his bank, mortgage and catalogue. He said he 
called BCS several times for updates but got the same message, theyd heard nothing and 
would be in touch when they did. Mr D said BCS stopped taking call enquiries and would 
only accept email contact. But he didnt get any response to his emails as they kept 
bouncing back. Mr D described contact with BCS as a brick wall. Mr D said his ex-partner 
had made a claim about a loan shed with one of the lenders and had a response from the 
claims management company she used within a few weeks with redress being paid. Mr D 
complained to BCS. But they didnt respond. 
 As BCS wasnt responding to him Mr D brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator said she couldnt say whether Mr Ds claims would have been successful 
but as BCS hadnt shown theyd pursued his claims, she said Mr D had suffered a loss of 
opportunity. And BCS should compensate him £250 for this. She also said the lack of 
updates had caused Mr D distress and inconvenience. And asked BCS to pay a further £100 
for this.
BCS responded to our investigators outcome saying theyd told Mr D in August 2020 theyd 
sent his letter of authority (LoA) to his lenders before the August 2019 deadline for making 
such claims. Theyd also told him theyd received responses to all the claims except for one. 
And that owing to the pandemic responses from the lenders were delayed, which theyd 
updated Mr D about several times. 
Mr Ds complaint has been referred to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI 
claims to be made. For some lenders the submission of a LoA was accepted as a claim for mis-
sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to investigate the mis-sold PPI claim.  
But for others a formal complaint with supporting information was required. Any claim received 
after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have been accepted by the lender(s) unless there 
were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
Mr Ds main dispute centres around the potential for mis-sold PPI claim with his lenders to 
have been successful. And Mr D was hopeful of success given his ex-partner had made 
similar successful claims.
BCS said they received LoAs from Mr D in June 2019 so Its not in dispute that hed  
instructed BCS to check whether hed been mis-sold any PPI.
BCS havent responded to our requests for information except to say theyd received Mr Ds 
LoA and that theyd had responses from all but one of his lenders. But I havent seen any 
evidence, for example LoAs, case notes, or call recordings that would show what BCS has 
done in pursuance of his mis-sold PPI claims. BCS said theyd sent Mr Ds LoA to his 
lenders before the August 2019 deadline, but I havent seen any evidence to support that 
they have done this. Neither has BCS provided the responses they said theyd from the 
lenders to show the date of the response or what the nature of the response was  had the 
lender found PPI or not - did the lender ask for further information to identify Mr D had an 
account with them or to ask for further information to support Mr Ds claim the PPI had been 
mis-sold. 
So, I dont know if or when BCS received the responses or what the content of those 
responses was. And I havent seen any evidence that BCS told Mr D about the responses, 
until an email in August 2020 over 12 months from the date BCS said they received Mr Ds 
instructions and this only said theyd had them. So, I cant say theyve complied with the 
relevant guidance, CMCOB 6.1.4 says:
The firm must pass on to the customer, (a) any information received from a third party which 
is addressed to, or meant for, the attention of that customer; and (b) any request received by 
the firm from a third party for the supply of information by the customer that the firm does not 
already hold.
And that this should be done within 10 business days and in a durable medium.
BCS said they sent a general update notification to their customers as instructed about the 
impact of the pandemic. And said theyd sent this to Mr D about his claims in April 2020 and 
July 2020. They have shown us an audit trail of the letters being sent to an account in April 
2020, and an example of the letter they were sending. But neither show a correlation 
specifically to Mr Ds claims. And 
CMCOB 6.1.9 says:
A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least 
once every six months, in a durable medium.
BCS have also said that one of Mr Ds lenders had gone into administration. Again, I cant see 
any evidence that Mr D was told about this.
CMCOB 6.1.13 says:
If a customers claim is not successful, the firm must advise the customer of the available 
methods by which the customer may continue to pursue their claimAnd says this could be by complaining to an ombudsman or a compensation scheme without 
using BCS and without incurring a fee. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr D was told 
this. 
I cant know or speculate whether any of Mr Ds mis-sold PPI claims would have been 
successful or not as there are several factors that lenders would have needed to consider. 
But BCS havent persuaded me that that they carried out Mr Ds instructions to pursue his 
mis-sold PPI claims and I think hes lost the opportunity for any claim to be fully investigated. 
So, I think BCS should compensate Mr D £250 for this.
Ive also considered the service BCS gave to Mr D. And I dont think BCS have kept Mr D as 
informed as they should have. So, I think its fair and reasonable for BCS to pay Mr D £100 
for the distress and inconvenience this has caused.
I understand Mr D probably wont feel as though this addresses his potential financial loss, 
or his feeling of being let down by BCS. But I hope he can understand my thinking for 
reaching my decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Brazier Consulting Services Ltd to compensate Mr D for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by paying him:
£250 for loss of opportunity and
£100 for poor customer service
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman