DRN-3339300
The complaint
Mrs T complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) for failing to identify 
developing corrosion to her boiler flue, despite attending recently for a boiler service and 
inspection. Mrs T wants British Gas to pay for Mrs Ts replacement boiler and to pay her 
compensation.
What happened
Mrs T had a boiler installed around 2008.
From around 2011, Mrs T had British Gas boiler cover. This provided for repairs to her boiler 
and flue (under 1m long) and for replacement parts. The cover included an annual service 
visit from one of British Gass engineers.
British Gas attended Mrs Ts home each year, and most recently visited her home in August 
2020.
During that visit, the engineer carried out safety tests on her boiler and raised no concerns.
The gas emissions tests on the flue did not reveal any issues and the engineer would have 
carried out a visual inspection of the flue emerging from the outside wall.
After this visit, Mrs T decided to end her boiler care agreement with British Gas, and to look 
for an alternative provider.
In early February 2021, Mrs T engaged a heating engineer to attend her home. When the 
engineer attended, he observed severe corrosion on the external flue and condemned the 
boiler without even entering the house.
Mrs T complained to British Gas. 
She felt that British Gas ought to have noticed this corrosion during its inspection and that 
she should have been alerted to the risk. She was worried that if the boiler could be 
condemned from a visual assessment outside, then she may have been exposed to risk of 
harm. 
British Gas sent her its final response letter in April  2021. British Gas did not uphold Mrs Ts 
complaint. It stated that the corrosion could have deteriorated over the 6 months since the 
British Gas visit and that the engineer would not have seen the larger hole in the flue as it 
was hidden inside the wall. British Gas stated that if there had been signs of corrosion the 
engineer would have pressed on the metal with a screwdriver and, if this was solid, would 
not have taken further action.
Mrs T was not happy with that response and contacted us.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He noted that British Gas had provided 
evidence of the gas flue analyser check which showed safe results. He considered that, on 
the available evidence, the corrosion could not have been seen and so he did not think that 
British Gas had done anything wrong.
Mrs T did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I issued a provisional decision in relation to this complaint in January 2022. In that 
provisional decision I explained that due to the level of corrosion present by February 2021, 
and because British Gas had acknowledged that some of that corrosion would have been 
present in August 2020, I considered it likely that the inspection in August 2020 was 
inadequate. I thought that it had either not included full tests of the flue, these had been 
deficient, or the engineer had failed to advise Mrs T of a potential problem developing in the 
flue. 
I considered that this had caused Mrs T to be inadequately informed when she then left her 
cover with British Gas and sought other cover. I thought that British Gas should refund her 
premium for the year 2020, with interest, and should also pay to her £600 compensation to 
reflect her distress, inconvenience and loss of opportunity. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
Mrs T has responded, largely accepting the provisional decision. She comments that she 
believes that British Gas is responsible for the boiler replacement on the basis that if British 
Gas had identified the corrosion to the flue in August 2020 this could have been mitigated 
and the boiler breakdown would not have happened. 
British Gas has responded disagreeing with my provisional decision. British Gas states that 
many checks are done which are not individually recorded, and that the checks carried out 
on the flue resulted in the confirmation that the flue was safe. British Gas points to the 
engineers good record and argues that there were no failures. 
British Gas disagrees with my comment that annual safety checks are for peace of mind and 
states that the dominant purpose of the cover is to cover breakdown and repairs.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the comments provided by the parties. These are considered and helpful. 
Addressing first British Gass comments, I understand that not all tests carried out would be 
recorded and the fact that the screwdriver test is not explicitly recorded does not mean it was 
not done. 
I remain of the view, however, that there was some corrosion present at the time of the 
inspection, and properly conducted tests ought to have been able to detect this. 
I also accept that the annual services and checks do not make any guarantees about the 
safety of the appliance throughout the following year, but I remain of the view that 
consumers do gain peace of mind from the checks being carried out. These are, of course, a 
snapshot and parts could go wrong immediately after the safety check, but the checks do 
give a bill of health to the appliances at that time. 
On that basis, I still consider that there was a failure to identify developing corrosion and to report this to Mrs T. I think had she been aware of the corrosion, even at a low level, she 
would have been able to monitor this and to make informed choices about what to do next.
Moving then to Mrs Ts comments, I understand the logic by which she considers that the 
boiler would not have gone wrong at that time if the flue corrosion had been detected earlier. 
I still do not agree, however. 
Boilers have a life expectancy and parts within the boiler will inevitably degrade or 
breakdown. This is increasingly likely as the boiler ages and is why British Gas limits its offer 
of boiler replacement to boilers under 10 years. 
I appreciate that the flue corrosion was a factor in the boiler breakdown, but I consider it 
likely that it would have had to have been replaced in the relatively near future in any event. I 
cannot therefore fairly consider replacement of a 13 year old boiler to be predominantly the 
fault of British Gas, or something which they should compensate.   
Consequently, whilst I appreciate the comments of the parties, I remain of the view 
expressed in my provisional decision and adopt this, as supplemented by these comments, 
as my final decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and as set out above, I uphold Mrs Ts 
complaint and direct British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Refund to Mrs T her 2020 premium with interest at a rate of 8% per annum from the 
date of payment up until settlement; and
Pay to Mrs T £600 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman