The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has turned down a 
claim they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M got back from a holiday. They noticed ceiling damage underneath their en-
suite. So they called up Lloyds to make a claim. Lloyds's call handler told them to get a 
cause of damage report. So they did and called Lloyds back with the outcome.They told 
Lloyds their plumber had put the damage down to faulty workmanship on the part of one of 
its contractors whod carried out repairs during a claim in 2015. They said their plumber had 
told them that connecting pipes to the shower hadnt been properly sealed and had leaked. 
And that the drain hole had only two of three screws fitted, so this had leaked too.
Mr and Mrs Ms plumber also provided a written report explaining what he thought had 
caused the damage. The report said the drain wasnt secured properly, because of a lack of 
silicone; the grout used was cracked and not waterproof and there wasnt a waterproof 
membrane behind the tiles.
Lloyds appointed a surveyor to investigate whatd caused the damage. The surveyor didnt 
think the damage was down to faulty workmanship. The tiles, plasterboard and part of the 
ceiling had already been removed, so the surveyor couldnt fully assess the damage. They 
inspected the tile debris and felt the adhesive looked fine. They thought the damage was 
most likely down to the failure of grouting or the sealant. 
The surveyor also didnt think that if the leak was down to defective tiling, water wouldve 
been found dripping from the hallway ceiling, as Mrs M had told them. Thats because the 
shower hadnt been being used while they were on holiday.
Based on the surveyors findings, Lloyds turned down the claim. It hadnt been able to 
investigate the actual tile and plasterboard damage. And it felt the adhesive on the tile debris 
looked fine. So it didnt think the damage was down to faulty workmanship on the part of its 
contractors. It thought the damage was down to wear and tear over time, which is 
specifically excluded by the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with Lloyds decision. So they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She felt it was fair 
for Lloyds to rely on its surveyors report to turn down the claim. Because the ceiling and tiles 
had already been taken down, she thought it hadnt had a fair chance to assess the cause of 
the damage. And she felt that as the surveyor had put the damage down to wear and tear 
DRN-1666992over time, it was fair for Lloyds to rely on the policy term excluding claims which happen 
because of it.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They said Lloyds had told them they had to replace the grout every 
six months  but a tile retailer hadnt agreed with this. Theyd taken a couple of their old tiles 
to the same retailer, who didnt think the contractor had used standard adhesive. Lloyds 
contractor hadnt used waterproof adhesive. There was a screw missing which had left the 
drain not watertight. They asked for an ombudsman to look at their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think Lloyds has treated 
Mr and Mrs M fairly. Ill explain why.
Insurers set out what they do and dont want to cover in their policy terms. For a claim to be 
paid, it needs to be because of something thats covered by the policy  which we generally 
call an insured event. In this case, Mr and Mrs M have claimed for an escape of water 
which they think was caused by the historic faulty workmanship of one of Lloyds contractors.
When Mr and Mrs M first told Lloyds about the leak, Lloyds asked them to get a cause of 
damage report. They told Lloyds the plumber thought that connecting pipes hadnt been 
correctly sealed and that a drain hadnt been properly secured. Given this information, I think 
it was reasonable for Lloyds to ask a surveyor to go and investigate the damage so it could 
ensure these failings were down to poor workmanship on the part of its contractor.
But when the surveyor went out to Mr and Mrs Ms house, they werent able to see what 
damage had been caused and what the likely cause was. Thats because the tiles and 
plasterboard in the bathroom had been taken away and part of the ceiling had been 
removed. So there wasnt much evidence for the surveyor to consider. The plumber had 
also  provided a written report explaining that he thought the damage was down to faulty 
workmanship.
This report though said the damage was down to cracked grout, lack of a waterproof 
membrane and a lack of silicone to secure the drain. These findings were somewhat 
different to what the plumber had originally suggested. The report also said: The tiles are 
bulging and had movedIts clear that the water has been leaking for some time and been 
accumulating behind the tiles wall hence the leak in the ceiling.
So the surveyor looked at the adhesive on some the tile debris. They felt it looked fine. They 
also didnt think it was likely that if the problem was with the drain, water wouldve leaked 
behind the tiles. It wouldve travelled downwards. And they said if the problem was with 
defective tiles, water wouldnt have been dripping through the ceiling at a time when the 
shower wasnt being used.
The surveyor felt it was most likely that the water leak had been down to the failure of the 
grouting over years since the first claim. The claim notes dating from Mr and Mrs Ms first 
call to Lloyds suggest theyd said they werent sure if a pipe was leaking, or the leak was 
from the seal or the grouting. They werent able to assess whether there wouldve been 
anything to indicate to Mr and Mrs M that there was a problem. Thats because the ceiling 
had already been taken down. Ive seen though that Lloyds notes say Ph (policyholder) 
previously advised the walls were mouldy. So while the surveyor couldnt see evidence of 
an ongoing leak, like staining or mould, its possible these signs had been there before Mr 
and Mrs M went away.Where theres a dispute about whats happened, I have to make my decision based on what 
I thinks most likely to have happened, given the evidence and circumstances. On the one 
hand, Mr and Mrs Ms plumber says the damage happened because of Lloyds contractors 
poor workmanship. On the other hand, Lloyds surveyor didnt think there was enough 
evidence to either show this was the case or that the damage was down to something the 
policy covered.
Ive carefully considered what the plumber said. It isnt clear though exactly what he thought 
caused the damage. Thats because he initially linked it to an incorrectly connected pipe and 
failure to use a third screw. This wouldnt cause water to leak behind tiles. He later said the 
damage was down to cracked grouting (which is a maintenance issue), failure to use a 
waterproof adhesive and lack of silicone in the drain. 
The surveyor didnt think the water leak was due to any failure on the part of Lloyds 
contractor or had happened because of something the policy covered. It seems to me that 
the surveyor had little opportunity to properly look into whatd happened because most of the 
damaged areas had been removed. This made Lloyds position more difficult. What they did 
see didnt suggest that the damage was because of faulty workmanship  they felt the most 
likely cause was the failure of the grouting. It seems they did have the chance to look at tile 
debris and the adhesive seemed satisfactory.
Having considered everything, Im more persuaded by Lloyds surveyors findings. Theyve 
been consistent and given what theyve said, it doesnt seem as if defective tiling couldve 
caused the damage Mr and Mrs M reported. I appreciate Mr and Mrs M say a tile retailer told 
them the adhesive didnt look standard. But without an independent report to support this, its 
difficult for me to place more weight on this than the surveyors inspection. 
Overall, it seems more likely that the leaking water could be down to a failure of the grout 
and sealant over time. Its possible there was some mould to indicate this was happening. 
And the bulging and movement of tiles mightve been enough to show Mr and Mrs M there 
was a problem with the grouting that needed looking into. But its difficult to make a finding 
on balance when the surveyor didnt have a proper chance to investigate the cause of 
damage. Especially when its unclear where the water was coming from.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy, like most policies on the market, dont cover damage that happens 
gradually, or over time. And the escape of water section of Mr and Mrs Ms policy specifically 
excludes claims that happen because of the failure of or lack of sealant and/or grout.
So all in all, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ms claim was covered by their policy, or that theyve 
shown it was down to a failure on the part of Lloyds contractor. So I dont think Lloyds needs 
to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman