DRN-3273318
The complaint
Mr H complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) havent made reasonable 
efforts to contact him before cancelling his credit card with them. 
What happened
Mr H complained to Halifax in July 2021 when, after trying to use his card overseas, it was 
declined multiple times. 
Halifax told Mr H in an online chat his card had been cancelled a couple of months 
beforehand and the account closed. They said theyd written to him in February 2021 as the 
card hadnt been used for some time and set out three options he could use to keep the 
account open. Halifax said they didnt receive a response so, the account was closed and 
they were unable to re-open it for him. They told Mr H a closed account could take up to six 
months to be removed from an online account which is why Mr H saw it on the app along 
with his PIN when he checked before travelling. Mr H was unhappy with this explanation and 
the situation. Halifax agreed in the online chat to open a complaint but Mr H heard nothing 
further until he chased Halifax about the issue in September 2021.
Halifax sent Mr H their final response on 15 September 2021. They apologised for not 
logging a complaint as promised in the online chat and arranged to pay him £50 by means of 
apology for this. But, in respect of the account closure and information shown in the app they 
didnt think theyd done anything wrong, so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H brought the 
matter to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was unable to find Halifax had made a 
mistake in cancelling the card. And their response to offer £50 compensation in respect of 
the other failings was a reasonable one. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said there were two issues. Firstly, he 
thought the issue of documents to customers by post alone was wrong and questioned how 
this served those with no fixed address or those who travelled for work for significant 
periods. And second, he thought it wrong that the app showed false information months after 
the account closed and that there was no secure message or equivalent within the app. He 
though this complaint was about how Halifaxs processes were incorrect, their actions were 
inherently unfair to may UK customers and the vulnerable. He questioned whether the 
investigator thought a banking app providing the wrong information upon which a financial 
decision had been made was fair. He thought the information hed seen in the banking app 
could be classed as misleading as he was misled to think he had an account, four months 
after it had been closed.
The investigator reviewed her findings but didnt change them. Mr H asked for an 
ombudsman to review his case. He didnt think the investigator had addressed everything. 
He reiterated that he saw as the crux of the matter as being Halifaxs provision of incorrect 
information within the app four months after the account closure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr H feels the investigator hasnt properly understood aspects of his 
complaint. Ive looked at everything afresh before reaching an independent view. But Im not 
persuaded this is a complaint I can fairly and reasonably uphold. Where facts have been in 
dispute, incomplete or inconclusive and I cant know exactly whats happened, Ive decided 
whats more likely to have happened, at the time, on a balance of probabilities.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is here to resolve individual complaints and to award 
redress where appropriate. And its not my role to ask a business to alter its procedures; this 
is something their regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) can look into if they felt 
it was necessary. So, I cant comment on Mr Hs concerns about Halifax processes being 
incorrect. Or insofar as they impact other customers. If he thinks it necessary, Mr H can refer 
general concerns about Halifaxs processes to regulator.  
Its my role to put consumers back into the position that they shouldve been in if the 
mistakes hadnt been made. But, other than the failure in handling this complaint promptly 
and in line with their assurances in the live chat in July 2021, I dont think Halifax made any 
mistakes here. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration with the situation. But the information Halifax have sent 
satisfies me that the letter regarding the review of the account, its possible closure and how 
Mr H could ensure it remained open was sent in February 2021. So, although I acknowledge 
Mr H says he did not receive the letter from Halifax, on balance, I am satisfied it was sent. I 
dont know why it is that Mr H didnt receive the letter, but I cant safely conclude its a result 
of something that Halifax has done wrong. 
Halifax told us it can take up to six months for a closed account to no longer show online. 
So, I dont doubt Mr H wouldve seen the credit card account and relevant details when he 
checked on the app in late June 2021, as Halifax only closed it after 23 April 2021. But the 
app wasnt the only source of information or method of checking the card available to him. 
Mr H couldve have used the online chat or transacted on the card. So, although frustrating 
for Mr H, given this and my finding about the letter, I cant agree the app was misleading.
I know the wider issue for Mr H is he thinks more should have been done to contact him and 
that a letter isnt appropriate, but I disagree. Although other lenders may communicate with 
customers via an app, the decision on how to communicate with customers was one for 
Halifax. As the investigators explained, a letter isnt necessarily an unsecured method. So, I 
cant say Halifax did anything wrong by sending Mr H a letter to his registered address with 
them. And, as the terms and conditions on the account allow Halifax to close the account 
with two months notice, I think theyve acted in line with their processes here.  So, I cant 
uphold this complaint. 
In respect of the complaint handling failing, I think the payment of £50 compensation is a 
reasonable response and the sort of award Id have made had it not been offered by Halifax. 
So, I cant reasonably ask them to do anything further here.
Given how strongly Mr H feels about this, he may want to pursue the matter further through 
other routes. But my decision brings to an end what we - in trying to resolve his dispute with 
Halifax informally - can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr H.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman