DRN-1240577
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) failed to update her account details, 
sent her misleading correspondence, and then locked her account when she urgently 
needed access to her money.
What happened
Mrs Hs complaint has been brought on her behalf by her husband, but this remains her 
complaint so Ill address her in this decision. 
Mrs H recently changed her surname. She said shed updated her name on her current 
account, which isnt with BoI. She has a savings account with BoI, and her current account is 
linked to it. Mrs H said the bank that manages her current account told BoI about the change 
to her name. And she told us BoI had written to her to acknowledge the change. 
Mrs H then needed to access the money in her savings account urgently while she and her 
husband were overseas. But she wasnt able to, the account had been blocked because the 
details hadnt been updated, even though BoI said they had. She said that this impacted her 
holiday, and she wanted BoI to pay compensation. It has offered her £100 but she wants 
£200 to 250 to settle the complaint.
BoI said Mrs H hadnt changed the name on her BoI account. Shed changed the name on 
her linked account, and BoI sent her an automated letter acknowledging that change. That 
was sent for security reasons, just in case she hadnt made this change herself. But that 
letter didnt tell her that the account name had been changed on her BoI account. BoI said it 
was still addressing her by her old surname. 
The linked account needs to be in the same name as the BoI account. Thats in the terms of 
the savings account. When Mrs H rang on 16 March 2019 to tell BoI she couldnt access her 
money, BoI said that the problem was likely to be that the name on her savings account and 
the linked account didnt match. It asked her to send proof of her change of name. 
BoI also said on that call that it would check with the security team if it could remove the 
block. BoI hadnt done that after this call, and it was sorry. 
Mrs H rang again on 19 March, the security team wasnt open so BoI couldnt solve the 
problem for Mrs H. BoI told her then that she could ring the next day, and it would be able to 
talk to the security team. 
Mrs H then rang back on 27 March, BoI was able to speak to the security team right away, 
and the block was removed. But BoI said she still hadnt sent it proof of the name change.
BoI said its service couldve been better, so it offered Mrs H £100 for that. Mrs H said she 
wanted more. BoI would consider that if Mrs H showed it details of any costs shed incurred. 
But Mrs H hadnt sent that, so BoI wouldnt increase its offer. It said she could still have the 
£100 if she would like. Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said BoI had acted in line 
with the terms of the account. Mrs H had only changed the name on her linked account, the 
BoI savings account was still in her old name. So he didnt think BoI made a mistake when it 
blocked her account. 
Our investigator didnt think it was BoIs fault that Mrs H had problems accessing her money 
while she was away from home. He thought BoIs offer was fair. He didnt think BoI needed 
to do more than that.
Mrs H clarified how her name was updated. And she said the letter from BoI was worded in a 
way that misled her into believing her account details were updated and there was noting 
further to do. Mrs H sent us this letter. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said Mrs H hadnt sent her proof of name 
change to BoI. And the letter from BoI didnt show a name change had been applied to her 
BoI account. It addressed her by her former name. Our investigator didnt feel the letter 
contained incorrect information, or was misleading. 
Mrs H didnt agree. She said the letter said the account was good to use beyond a date it 
gave, and it wasnt. She thought if she needed to do something, then the letter shouldve 
spelled this out for her. Our investigator didnt change his mind, so this case was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H hasnt suggested she changed the name on her BoI account. She says she changed 
the name on her current account, and that the letter she got from BoI made her think this 
change had also been applied to her savings account. 
BoIs letter to Mrs H is titled Your new Linked Account. It tells her that from 1 March 2019, 
the linked account (her current account) details would be changed to the one shown on the 
letter. Mrs H says this is the same as her old account. That letter also says we will send 
withdrawals to your new Linked Account from [1 March].
Mrs H hadnt contacted BoI about her change of name, and she thought this letter meant she 
didnt have to. But I dont think this letter suggests to Mrs H that her name on the BoI savings 
account has been updated. The letter is still addressed to her in her old name. So I dont 
think its fair to hold BoI responsible if Mrs H didnt realise she would also need to tell BoI 
about her new name. And I dont think its primarily BoIs responsibility, when someone 
changes a name on a linked current account held with a different bank, to write to a 
customer to say that they must also notify BoI of this change. 
Ive seen the terms of Mrs Hs account, and they do require that her linked current account is 
in the same name as her savings account. But shed only updated one, so the names didnt 
match. For that reason, I dont think BoI did anything wrong when it blocked this account 
while Mrs H was overseas. 
I do think that if BoI had passed the complaint on to its security team on 16 March, when Mrs 
H first contacted it, that her account wouldve been unblocked faster. But I also note that BoI 
told her on 19 March that if she rang again the next day, it might be possible to unblock the 
account straight away. Ive taken all of this into account when I considered what the 
appropriate amount of compensation might be. BoI has offered Mrs H £100 in compensation. Ive considered this case carefully, and I think 
thats the right amount to make up for what I think went wrong here. I think that provides a 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
I expect that BoIs offer is still open to Mrs H. Ill leave it to her to decide whether she now 
wants to take this up. But, because BoI doesnt have to do more than its already offered to 
do, I wont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman