DRN-3133990
The complaint
Miss G complains about the way Telefonica UK Limited handled payments made to her 
account.  
What happened
Miss G was supplied with several devices and entered into fixed sum loan agreements with 
Telefonica. She initially paid by direct debit but changed this in 2020 and made manual 
payments.
Telefonica sent payment reminders to Miss G and advised her that her accounts were in 
arrears. Miss G didnt understand why this was the case because she thought she was up to 
date with her payments.
Telefonica later explained that when manual payments were made, these had been applied 
towards reducing the settlement figure, not towards the outstanding balance and arrears on 
the accounts. In response to Miss Gs complaint, Telefonica moved some credit amounts 
from some plans, but other plans remained in arrears. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I said that although Miss G had made 
manual payments each month, these payments hadnt been applied to the outstanding 
balances, even thought Miss G thought this was the case. I found that Telefonica should 
have explained to Miss G at the time how the manual payments would be applied. Because 
of the way Telefonica had applied the manual payments, this had resulted in the accounts 
accruing further arrears and missed payments.
I said I could see that Telefonica had transferred credits from one account to another to 
cover the arrears which had arisen as a result of the manual payments. I noted that 
Telefonicas position was that despite this, there were still arrears on some of the accounts 
which had arisen because Miss G hadnt made sufficient payments. I also noted that Miss G 
disputed that there were any arrears.
I said that I didnt think Telefonica had acted fairly because it hadnt explained how the 
manual payments would be applied. This had significantly impacted on Miss G because all 5 
accounts had been affected and had missed payments recorded. In addition, some of the 
devices had been disconnected. I said that Telefonica should put Miss G back in the position 
she would have been in had the manual payments been applied as if she had paid them by 
direct debit on the due date. I also said late payment fees should be refunded, missed 
payments removed from Miss Gs credit file, arrears marked with a Q (to indicate that the 
balance was disputed) and compensation paid.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider.
Telefonica didnt reply to the provisional decision. Miss G replied and said she was happy 
with the outcome. She raised some further points about one of the devices which remained 
disconnected and the level of compensation, which she thought should be increased. Miss G 
said that if Telefonica had treated her fairly, she wouldnt have got into arrears. She said she 
believed shed paid the full monthly amount each month. Miss G also said that shed set up 
direct debits for the accounts but one of her devices remained disconnected. She wants 
Telefonica to reconnect it and remove any arrears associated with it.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the further points made by Miss G. Having done so, my decision 
remains as set out in my provisional decision. I think the compensation Ive awarded fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss G. In relation to the dispute as to 
whether there are arrears on one of the device plans, I remain of the view that the fairest 
way to resolve this is for the arrears to be marked Q (in dispute) on Miss Gs credit file until 
Miss G is able to resolve this with Telefonica. Based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely 
that there are modest arrears on one of the accounts. Once these are paid off, Telefonica 
should reconnect the device.   
Putting things right
To put things right, Telefonica UK Limited must:
Apply all of the manual payments made by Miss G from 1 January 2020 to her outstanding 
balances (as if the payments had been made by direct debit) and re-work the accounts
Refund any late payment fees charged to Miss G from 1 January 2020 to date
Remove the missed payments recorded on Miss Gs credit file
Remove the default from Miss Gs credit file and replace it with a Q to indicate that the 
balance is disputed.
Pay compensation of £300 to Miss G for distress and inconvenience
Explain in writing to Miss G that if she makes any manual payments in the future, these 
might not be applied towards her outstanding balance and /or her arrears
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Telefonica UK Limited must take the steps 
set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman