DRN-3124086
The complaint
Miss D and Mr T complain about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) for
declining their claim for a collapsed retaining wall at their home, and for the delays they
experienced in Admirals process. They want Admiral to pay out their claim and reimburse
them for the surveyor report they commissioned.
What happened
Miss D and Mr T bought their home in autumn 2019. To support their purchase, they
obtained a homebuyers report.
In early 2020, Miss D and Mr T erected a large shed in their garden, on top of a concrete
slab. This shed and slab were along the boundary edge with their neighbours, whose
property and garden sat around 20 feet below the level of Miss D and Mr Ts garden.
In late August 2020, Storm Francis hit the UK, and there were high winds and heavy rains in
the area of Miss D and Mr Ts home.
A few days after the storm, on 27 August 2020, Miss D and Mr Ts neighbour reported that
the boundary wall between their homes, which retained the land of Miss D and Mr Ts
garden, had collapsed onto the neighbours property. This had caused some damage to a
pergola.
Miss D and Mr T contacted Admiral immediately to log a claim. Admiral appointed an agent
to process the claim.
Admiral sent an assessor to Miss D and Mr Ts home on 4 September 2020. That assessor
acknowledged he was not appropriately qualified as a surveyor to make a decision on the
damaged wall. He advised he would report back to Admiral and request that a specialist be
appointed.
On 15 September 2020, Admiral sent its decline decision to Miss D and Mr T. It started that
the wall had not been strong enough to support the retained earth and the weight of the new
structure (shed).
Miss D and Mr T complained about this decision. They disagreed with the substance of the
decision, and also that it had been based upon the assessment of an inappropriately
qualified assessor.
Admiral sent its final response to their complaint on 25 September 2020. This response
upheld Miss D and Mr Ts complaint and acknowledged that a more suitably qualified
assessor ought to have been sent. Admiral offered them £50 compensation and indicated it
would then send a subsidence surveyor to their property.
In the meantime, Miss D and Mr T had commissioned their own surveyor to attend and
produce a report. That surveyor attended on 24 September 2020 and produced a report
shortly afterwards.
Miss D and Mr T were then in regular communication with Admiral, chasing when the
surveyor would be sent. Admiral sent holding letters throughout October, and in early
November Miss D and Mr T chased the report explaining that their neighbours had been
advised to vacate their property due to the danger posed by the wall.
Admiral made efforts to identify a surveyor and eventually Admirals surveyor attended Miss
D and Mr Ts home on 20 November 2020.
That surveyor carried out an inspection and reported back to Admiral. Admiral then
reiterated its decision to decline the claim and sent a final response letter in December 2020.
The report of Admirals surveyor had not been shared with Miss D and Mr T by that time.
Miss D and Mr T were unhappy and came to us.
Our investigator looked into this matter and partially upheld Miss D and Mr Ts complaint. He 
considered that Admiral had been reasonable in declining the claim, but had unreasonably 
delayed, and so ought to pay a further £100 compensation to Miss D and Mr T for their 
distress and inconvenience. The investigator did not consider that Admiral ought to 
reimburse the cost of the surveyors report which Mis D and Mr T commissioned as Admiral
had not asked Miss D and Mr T to obtain this.
Miss D and Mr T did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I set out my preliminary view on this complaint in a provisional decision, issued in September 
2021. 
In that decision I explained that I thought Admiral ought to do more to put matters right, 
including reimbursing Miss D and Mr T for their surveyors report, and increasing the 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties for their comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision and the reasons given. Miss D and Mr T 
remain disappointed that their claim has been declined but they accept the reasons for this 
and consider the provisional outcome fair. 
I therefore adopt my provisional decision and reasons as my final decision. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision, I partially uphold Miss D and Mr Ts 
complaint and direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Reimburse Miss D and Mr T £732 for their surveyors report; and
Pay to Miss D and Mr T £400 compensation for their distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman