DRN-3665631
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the way Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) dealt with his claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have a private medical insurance policy underwritten by Vitality on a 
moratorium basis, which started on 1 May 2021. On 2 May 2021 Mr B twisted his knee and 
subsequently saw his GP who referred him to a specialist for treatment. 
Mr B contacted Vitality to make a claim  and it asked for a form to be completed by 
his GP. This was completed and sent back to Vitality on 9 June 2021. 
On 18 June 2021, Vitality requested further information from the GP which was 
returned on 30 June 2021. 
By 6 July 2021, Vitality reviewed the information but said it needed further 
information from the GP including Mr Bs full medical records and notes about his 
condition. 
On 5 and 6 August 2021 Vitality received the additional information and records from 
the hospital it had contacted and the GP.
Vitality then said it needed to ask the GP for confirmation that Mr B hadnt had any 
treatment, advice or medication for his knee between May 2019 and May 2021. The 
GP confirmed that Mr B hadnt. 
The claim was approved on 1 September 2021. 
Throughout July, Mr B called and spoke to Vitality  he said he was in pain and needed the 
treatment authorised. He wasnt happy with the number of times Vitality had contacted his 
GP for information. 
Mr B complained to Vitality. It offered Mr B £100 compensation and apologised for delays. 
Unhappy with this as a resolution, Mr B referred his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Vitality unnecessarily delayed the 
assessment of the claim. And recommended that Vitality pay £300 compensation for the 
delays which she said could have been avoided had it asked for all the information it needed  
at the outset. 
Vitality disagreed with the level of compensation and said it asked for further information at 
the appropriate stages and wouldnt ask for everything at the outset as this often caused 
delays. It also didnt think this Service should determine when Vitality should ask for medical 
information. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly, and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Vitality accepts that it didnt handle the claim as well as it could have done for which it has 
offered £100 compensation. But I agree that £300 is more appropriate in all the 
circumstances of this case based on the impact on Mr B. Ill explain why.
I accept that Vitality is entitled to request and review Mr Bs medical information. And that 
part of its process is to request an initial report and then request further information at a later 
stage, if necessary. But I would expect Vitality to consider the claim promptly and fairly, and 
request information at the earliest possible opportunity to minimise delays without repeat 
requests.
I also accept that Vitality cant be held responsible for all of the delays caused by third 
parties such as GPs and hospitals. And that it wont ask for full medical information at the 
outset as this can often cause delays. 
Having considered the nature of the requests Vitality sent to the GP, Ive seen that in its last 
request to the GP, it simply needed confirmation that Mr B hadnt had any advice, treatment 
or medication for knee problems between 2019 and 2021. As Mr B claimed for knee 
problems and had a moratorium policy, I think this question could have been asked earlier. 
Ive noted what Vitality has said about the role of this Service  and that it is not to determine 
when Vitality should ask for medical information. The role of this Service is to determine 
whether Vitality has treated Mr B fairly and whether it has dealt with his claim promptly. And 
that includes determining whether Vitality acted reasonably, taking into account all the 
circumstances of the case. If there was a delay, I have to consider whether Vitality was 
responsible for the delay and whether it could reasonably have done anything differently. 
Having considered everything as a whole, I dont think Vitality dealt with the claim promptly 
as it failed to ask the simple question about advice, treatment or medication for knee 
problems until August 2021, especially when it was aware that the GP wasnt responding to 
requests quickly. So it could have done more to move things along and think about how to 
minimise the number of times it would have to request information from the GP  based on 
what it knew about the claim. 
Mr B says he wouldnt have had to call Vitality so many times had it requested information at 
an earlier stage and this caused him distress and inconvenience. Ive seen Mr B called 17 
times and told Vitality he had to wait for a long time each time he called which added to his 
frustration. Im satisfied that the impact on Mr B was more than just minimal and so a higher 
level of compensation is appropriate in this case. 
In addition, Mr B told Vitality he was in pain and how he was affected by his knee problem. 
Even a short amount of unreasonable and avoidable delay meant Mr B was suffering with 
knee pain and chasing for updates at the same time which caused him distress and 
inconvenience. Taking everything into account, I think £300 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Vitality Health Limited to 
pay Mr B £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman