DRN-3362033
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Credit Card 
irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit card account which was unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs R says she shouldnt have been allowed to open the Tesco credit card account. She 
says the account was unaffordable and she had a poor credit record. Mrs R would like the 
charges and interest that were applied to her account refunded. 
Tesco says Mrs R applied for the account in 2017 which was approved with a credit limit of 
£1,400. It says Mrs R told it she was working with an income of about £25,000 and 
calculated her other debt at £1,700. Tesco says it did carry out appropriate checks and Mrs 
R easily passed its affordability checks. It says Mrs R made payments until 2019.
Mrs R brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator thought Mrs R had a recent default some five months before the account was 
opened and although she hadnt missed payments in the preceding six months that further 
checks ought to have been carried out. The investigator thought Mrs R may not have told 
Tesco the correct position about her work status and recommended Tesco refund interest 
and charges from May 2017.
Tesco doesnt accept that view.
I asked both sides for further information. I asked Mrs R for a copy of her credit report, 
details of her financial position and if she was working or not as the application said she was.
I asked Tesco for information about the credit score it applied and it has clarified it. It has 
also told me Mrs R used the account for a number of gambling transactions.
Mrs R hasnt replied to my request.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and said as follows.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
loan or credit application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of the credit or lending. This was an application for a credit facility rather than for 
example a mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected Tescos checks to have been as 
detailed here, but of course appropriate checks must still be carried out.
I could see from Tescos records that it looked at Mrs Rs credit file and did note the last 
default. I saw that it confirmed that Mrs R had made the last six months payments on other 
accounts and carried out affordability checks which were comfortably passed. It also carried 
out checks on Mrs Rs outgoings which showed on the face of it, Mrs R had a significant 
amount left after expenses. So, I thought Tesco did carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on the application and that the lending decision was not on the face of it unaffordable 
or irresponsible.
Mrs R didnt provide her credit report or further details of her financial position. So, I couldnt 
fairly say what further checks would have revealed in any event. I didnt think Mrs R had 
clarified her work position or household income amount or explained why the account was 
unaffordable.
I could see from Tescos records that Mrs R did make significant payments on a regular 
basis and thought it likely that the gambling spending rather than other factors led to the 
financial difficulties some years after the account was opened.
Overall, without seeing the requested information I couldnt see what further checks Tesco 
could have carried out or what they would have showed. And that on the face of it a 
relatively modest credit limit of £1,400 was approved which I thought was affordable.
Mrs R hasnt replied to my provisional decision. Tesco has accepted it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman