DRN-3564073
The complaint
Mr M has complained through a representative that Loans 2 Go Limited (Loans 2 Go) didnt 
carry out proportionate checks before granting a loan. 
What happened
Mr M had a loan from Loans 2 Go and a brief summary of the lending can be found in the 
table below.  
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(month)monthly 
repayment
1 £880 10/01/2022 outstanding 18 £180.89
Based on the most recent statement of account an outstanding balance remains due to 
Loans 2 Go, but all of Mr Ms repayments appear to be up to date. 
Loans 2 Go issued its final response letter about Mr Ms complaint on 18 March 2022, in 
which Loans 2 Go concluded it hadnt made an error when it approved these loans. 
Loans 2 Go said it carried out its normal verification checks, which included obtaining a 
credit report, and asked Mr M for his income and expenditure details. 
To help with the affordable check it also used ONS (Office for National Statistics) data to 
assess the information Mr M declared for his expenditure and it also carried out a check to 
establish the reasonableness of Mr Ms declared income. 
Overall, Loans 2 Go believed Mr M had £377 of disposable income each month with which 
to afford his loan repayment. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr Ms representative referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators and it was upheld. He said that 
while Loans 2 Go may have thought the loan looked affordable based on the income and 
expenditure information Mr M provided, he didnt think the loan was sustainable.  
He said that Mr M had around £5,500 of other credit, with a lot of it being recently opened 
and he was at or over his credit limit on a number of products. He also thought that the 
repayment to this loan and his other credit commitments represented a significant portion of 
Mr Ms declared income. 
Mr Ms representative didnt respond the adjudicators assessment. 
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with the outcome. In response it said (in summary):
There was no evidence of insolvency on Mr Ms credit file.
Mr Ms credit commitments were being reported as either repaid or up to date. 
Mr Ms credit commitments were high but that wasnt enough to say the loan should 
be upheld. 
From inception of the loan account Mr M has maintained his repayments and he 
hasnt indicated any financial difficulties. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M would have been able to do so?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under the loan 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. 
That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of normal income without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other payment he had 
a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the repayments having a significant 
adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan applications.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
For this loan, Loans 2 Go asked Mr M for his monthly income, which he declared as being 
£1,850. He also declared monthly living costs of £570. This is less (for his living cost), than 
the amount Loans 2 Go outlined in the final response letter. So, I assume that Loans 2 Go 
increased Mr Ms living costs using ONS data. 
But, notwithstanding the additional amount added to Mr Ms declared living costs Loans 2 Go 
couldve reasonable concluded that solely based on this information the loan looked 
affordable to Mr M. 
Loans 2 Go says the loan was for consolidation purposes  however, no further information 
has been taken or provided which shows which outstanding debts Mr M may or may not 
have used the Loans2 Go capital to repay other loans. Its worth saying this here that it 
seems Loans 2 Go released the full amount to Mr M  so it had no way of knowing whether 
Mr M would consolidate any of his debts.
But I think there was enough information available to Loans 2 Go from the credit search 
results which indicated that Mr M was likely having financial difficulties. Loans 2 Go provided 
the full results to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Having looked at these results, I do agree that there were no obvious signs of insolvency  
although there does seem to be a historic default from 2017. I also accept that apart from the 
default there were no other missed payments and all of Mr Ms credit accounts appeared to 
be up to date. 
However, Loans 2 Go was aware that Mr M had six active credit accounts with an 
outstanding debit balance of just over £5,500. Loans 2 Go knew, that he already had two 
loans outstanding with monthly commitments of £354. 
But what is concerning in my view, is that Mr M had four active credit cards of which three 
were over the credit limit set by the lenders. In addition, the fourth credit card was within 
£100 of the limit.  
So, while, the repayment history towards these cards appeared good, Mr M was actually in 
breach of the credit agreements on three of his credit cards and in my view, this is a sign 
that Mr M may have started to have financial difficulties. 
Also, Mr M wouldve needed to service the debt he already had. Ive assumed a total 
monthly repayment to his existing creditors of around £450. This includes the two loan 
repayments as well as assuming that the credit card repayments were 5% of the balance. 
This is a reasonable assumption to make but of course the payments were likely to be higher 
to consider the interest that Mr M would need to repay.  
He was also committed to repaying around £180 per month to Loans 2 Go  bringing his 
repayments solely to his credit commitments of around £630 per month. In my view, given 
what else Loans 2 Go knew about Mr M at the time, was a monthly commitment to other 
creditors which was unsustainable and too high. There was a real risk that Mr M couldnt afford the repayments in a sustainable manner. As a result, I dont think Loans 2 Go 
shouldve approved this loan. 
Im therefore intending to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the principal amount that he borrowed in 
respect this loan, because hes had the benefit of that lending. But as I have concluded 
Loans 2 Go shouldnt have provided this loan, it should look to remove the interest and fees 
from the amounts due under the loan agreement.
 
If Loans 2 Go has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Loans 2 Go is not able to buy the debts back then it 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Loans 2 Go should:
  remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
treat any payments made by Mr M as payments towards the capital amount;
If and when Mr M has paid more than the capital, then any overpayments should be 
refunded to him with 8%* simple interest from the date the overpayments arose to the 
date of settlement; 
If an outstanding balance still remains, Loans 2 Go should try and come to a mutually 
agreeable repayment plan with Mr M  I remind it of its obligation to treat Mr M fairly and 
with forbearance and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.
 
Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right for Mr M as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman