DRN-1684429
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from Toyota Financial 
Services (UK) Plc isnt of satisfactory quality and was misrepresented to him.
What happened
Mr C acquired a used car with the assistance of finance from Toyota on 11 February 2019. 
Mr C says that the car isnt of satisfactory quality. Mr C also believes that the car has been in 
an accident and he wasnt told about this before he bought the car even though he asked.
Toyota says that the car is of satisfactory quality and there is no evidence of any ongoing 
fault. It says there is no evidence that the car has had repairs following an accident and even 
if that were the case, the dealership would not have known about it before selling Mr C the 
car.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. They thought that there was no 
evidence that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied to Mr C. They 
also thought that there was no evidence that the car had been in an accident before it was 
sold to Mr C.
Mr C didnt agree and replied to say in summary that he was trying to get information about 
the accident from the previous owners of the car. He said he had lost faith in the car, and he 
wasnt comfortable driving it any more because of the issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. The 
facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 requires that a car must be of satisfactory quality at 
the time it is supplied. As the provider of the finance Toyota is jointly responsible with 
the supplier of the car if the car isnt of satisfactory quality.
Satisfactory quality covers a number of aspects and depends on the age and mileage 
of the car. It would be reasonable to expect a used car to develop more faults than a 
brand-new car.
I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the time it was supplied to Mr C. Mr C has said that the engine 
management light was illuminated but the supplying dealership have offered to repair 
this. I havent seen anything to suggest that the car still has faults that were present 
or developing at the time of supply.
Mr C says that he asked if the car had been in an a accident and he was told that it 
had not. Mr C says that the car was misrepresented to him. I havent seen any 
evidence that the car has been in an accident. Even if that was the case, I dont know 
what was said at the point of sale, but it is unlikely that the sales person would have 
been aware of this if the car had been repaired.
I know that my decision will likely be a disappointment to Mr C but on the information 
I have I cant say that there are any faults with the car or that it was misrepresented 
to him. So I cant ask Toyota to take the car back.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman