DRN-2913636
The complaint
Ms H complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) unfairly declined two 
theft claims she made under her mobile phone and gadget insurance.
  
What happened
Ms H holds mobile phone and gadget insurance through her bank. This provides cover for 
her devices against loss, theft and accidental damage. Shes held this insurance since 10 
December 2020. She and her partner both bought new phones around that time.
On 14 December 2020, Ms H realised that two mobile phones that shed kept in her bag 
while shopping had been lost or stolen. She made two claims on her gadget insurance that 
day. 
On 17 December 2020, Assurant asked Ms H to provide some evidence to support her 
claims. They requested proof of usage and proof of blacklisting for both phones, noting that 
neither were showing as blacklisted with the network.  
Ms H provided proof of usage for both phones on 22 December 2020. The next day 
Assurant asked her to get the two phones blacklisted with the network. And to provide proof 
of blacklisting for each phone. Ms H sent in the proof of blacklisting for both phones on 30 
December 2020.
On 7 January 2021 Assurant rejected both claims. They said that the document submitted as 
proof of blacklisting for one of the phones had been edited before submission. Ms H was 
unhappy with their decision and complained by e-mail the same day.
She said shed mistakenly sent the wrong documents. She told them that shed been 
practising the use of photoshop on the incorrect document and had sent it to them by 
mistake. She sent the original documents for Assurant to take into consideration. Assurant 
acknowledge that the documents she submitted at this point did show proof of blacklisting for 
both phones. But they didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Assurant said that they had proof that the initial proof of blacklisting Ms H had sent in for one 
of the phones had been modified before submission. They said that as shed edited the 
document, their decision to decline both claims was correct. 
Ms H disagreed with Assurant so brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended Ms Hs complaint be upheld. He noted that the information 
on the edited document was actually the same as that on the correct document that was 
eventually submitted. So he felt that Ms H had gained no advantage in her claim through the 
incorrect submission. Therefore he didnt feel it was fair for Assurant to reject the claims due 
to the provision of false documentation. To put things right, he recommended that Assurant 
considered Ms Hs claims in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Assurant didnt agree. They thought it was unlikely that Ms H had been practising how to 
photoshop on the document shed submitted. They felt that submitting an edited document 
was a fraudulent activity which invalidated the insurance cover. They also questioned the 
timing of the provision of the correct document. 
Assurant also noted that even if our investigator didnt agree that fraud had been committed, 
there were other policy terms and conditions which they could rely on to decline the claim. 
So this complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Assurant originally declined the claims under the term that says it can reject a claim and 
cancel a policy if false or inaccurate information is provided and fraud is identified. 
Specifically, the claims have been declined due to the provision of false documentation.
Its not in dispute that Ms H did provide false documentation when the edited document was 
submitted  she says mistakenly. So I think it would be helpful to outline our approach to 
situations where false information is provided by consumers in support of a claim. And this is 
that if the information doesnt affect whether a claim might be paid out or how much is paid 
out, the claim shouldnt be treated as fraudulent. This principle was established following a 
Supreme Court ruling (Versloot) in 2016. And this ruling outlined the difference between a 
fraudulently exaggerated claim and a justified claim, albeit one supported by lies.
Applying that ruling to Ms Hs complaint, Im satisfied that while Assurant were provided with 
an edited document, the information it included didnt differ from the correct document they 
were later provided with. So Ive seen nothing to suggest Ms H lied about what happened in 
order to claim more than she was potentially entitled to.
I appreciate Assurant feel they have the right to reject Ms Hs claims because she initially 
provided an edited document. But Ive seen no evidence that her claims were fraudulent. I 
acknowledge that Assurant find it improbable that Ms H was practising the use of 
photoshop. But Im not persuaded that the edited document gained Ms H any advantage in 
her claims.
Assurant also told us that the timeline of the correct document being supplied to them makes 
no sense to them either. Again, while I understand why theyve made this point, Im not sure 
it changes anything. Assurant have accepted that the document supplied was genuine.
Assurant have also said that even if this service cant conclude that Ms H committed fraud 
when she submitted the edited document, they still believe there are other terms within the 
policy terms and conditions document that they can rely on to decline the claim in this case. I 
acknowledge what theyve said. But Im not persuaded that it changes the outcome of this 
complaint. 
Overall, Im persuaded that if Ms H had provided the unedited information Assurant now 
have for proof of purchase, usage and blacklisting for both phones, they wouldve 
considered her claims. I acknowledge that the policy was relatively new. And I can see that it 
was reasonable for Assurant to review the claims in more detail once theyd noted that one 
of the submitted documents had been photoshopped. But I agree with our investigator that 
Assurants decision to reject both Ms Hs claims due to the provision of false documentation was unreasonable. So I require Assurant to put things right.   
Putting things right
 I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to consider Ms Hs claims in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require Assurant General Insurance 
Limited to consider Ms Hs claims in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman