DRN-2250279
The complaint
  This complaint is about Mr and Mrs Ys mortgage with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) . Theyre unhappy that RBS cant issue a mortgage offer document that accurately 
reflects the terms they agreed to. Theyre also unhappy that information was sent by text 
message to an incorrect phone number, and with RBSs service and complaint handling 
generally. The mortgage and the complaint are both joint, but all of our (and RBS) dealings 
have been with Mr Y.
What happened
  The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them to any 
great extent here. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words and then focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. 
Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral. Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr and Mrs Y when my 
decision is published.
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs Y agreed a new interest rate deal for their existing mortgage. The 
mortgage was due to run for ten years, requiring 120 monthly payments, ending on 
1 August 2029. Due to timing factors, the offer RBS issued for new deal quoted 119 
payments of slightly different amounts. RBS made manual behind-the-scenes adjustments 
to its systems to ensure the correct number of payments  of the correct amounts  would 
be made, but said it was unable to generate a new formal document to reflect this. 
The amendments resulted in the nominal end date of the mortgage being extended to 31 
August 2029. Mr Y has said that if the mortgage ends later than 1 August 2029, there could 
be adverse implications for his employment.
Putting things right caused Mr and Mrs Y some disruption; Mrs Ys holiday was interrupted 
whilst Mr Y made a return journey from London to his home to deal with the situation.  RBS 
issued a number of written responses between September and October 2019 which, 
collectively, resulted in a refund of the product fee (£995), a payment to offset Mr Ys travel 
costs (£200) and compensation for time, trouble and upset (£500). RBS also agreed to 
waive the early repayment charge (ERC) that would normally apply if the mortgage was 
repaid during the rate product period. 
Our investigator though the financial redress RBS had made was fair as far as it went; but 
she said RBS should produce a free-form letter confirming the loan amount, product type 
and duration, product start and end dates, remaining mortgage term of mortgage, ERC, over 
payment allowances, number of payments remaining and date of final payment. She said 
that Mr Y could show the letter to his employer and revert to RBS if more were needed. But 
she also pointed out that, in practical terms, the mortgage would end on 1 August 2029 
when the final payment was made.
RBS agreed to this but Mr Y has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts but provide an informal 
alternative to the legal process. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Its sometimes easy for those with a stake in a complaint to fall into the trap of thinking that 
complaint resolution is solely about finding fault, attributing blame and/or pursuing every 
argument to its technical conclusion. But there can often be more (or less) to it than that. 
There are occasions where its less about deciding who did or didnt get things wrong and 
more about what will set things right. To put it another way, sometimes the outcome of a 
complaint is simply about finding a pragmatic resolution, and in my view this is one of those 
instances.
The core complaint about the mortgage
I understand how frustrating it when mistakes happen or events turn out differently from what 
is anticipated. But we live in an imperfect world where, regrettably, things dont go to plan or 
happen as they should. When things do go wrong, its my role to decide if the steps taken to 
put thing right are fair and reasonable. 
It seems to me that Mr and Mrs Y have the mortgage they set out to get. They might 
disagree, but RBS has ensured theyll pay 120 payments to the mortgage, and unless 
something changes in the future, the final payment will be taken on 1 August 2029. In that 
context, I dont find Mr Ys comment that the mortgage was mis-sold, or that its not what 
they were aiming for, to be persuasive.
I appreciate how annoying it is that RBS systems limitation prevented it from providing the 
correct information about the mortgage in the full format of a regulated mortgage offer. But I 
have no regulatory function, so its outside my remit to order RBS to override or revise its 
systems. However, I find the investigators suggestion of a free-form letter a sensible and 
pragmatic way of resolving the issue. The letter RBS sent Mr and Mrs Y on 
22 September 2020 provided some but not all of the information the investigator 
recommended, so a further letter will still be needed.
Mr Y has been very prescriptive in listing the information that he insists RBS produce in its 
free-form letter. But I dont take his (or RBS) instructions on what I consider fair. In my view, the information the investigator recommended RBS put in its free-form letter is a reasonable 
and sensible compromise. 
Weve given Mr and Mrs Y an opportunity to provide evidence that more information would 
be needed by his employer, but nothing has been provided. Of course, if anything adverse 
does happen in August 2029, Mr and Mrs Y should be able to complain at that time. But we 
cant investigate something that hasnt yet happened, and we dont award compensation for 
something that could happen in the future.
The ERC
Mr and Mrs Y say RBS had gone back on an earlier promise to waive the ERC if they 
wanted either to switch to a different RBS deal or repay the mortgage altogether by moving 
to a different lender. It seems the offer to waive the ERC only applies in the latter situation; 
i.e. if the mortgage is repaid.
I said earlier that Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Y have the mortgage they set out to get at the 
start. Im not persuaded, on the basis of what I have seen, that the mortgage will cost 
Mr and Mrs Y more over its life than they expected and agreed to. 
That being the case, I dont find any grounds for me to order the waiver of the ERC in either 
circumstance. It follows that any offer from RBS to waive the ERC exceeds anything I would 
have ordered. If Mr and Mrs Y are in any way unsure about when and in what circumstances 
RBS will waive the ERC, then they can refer back to what it said in its letter of 
22 September 2020. But its not something that affects my decision on the complaint.
Fair compensation
Ive read everything Mr Y has said about what RBS offered, and the apparent contradictions 
on how it was broken down between reimbursement of travel expenses and a goodwill 
gesture. Ive also considered everything hes said about how separate compensation should 
be awarded to Mrs Y as well as to him.
First of all, this is a joint complaint about a joint mortgage; Mr Y may have been RBS sole 
point of contact, but its reasonable to infer that at all times, RBS was speaking to both 
Mr and Mrs Y together. Thats certainly the case in respect of this services dialogue with 
Mr Y about his ands his wifes complaint. That being the case, Ive treated RBS offer of 
compensation to resolve the complaint as being to Mr and Mrs Y collectively, not to Mr Y 
individually, with compensation to Mrs Y to be considered separately.
RBS apportioned £200 of its settlement proposal to cover Mr Ys travel costs from London to 
his home and back to deal with the complaint. Hes said he actually spent around £300, and 
that RBS never asked him to evidence that. What RBS may or may not have asked for isnt 
an issue; when someone is asking us to award redress for out-of-pocket expenses, we 
expect evidence to corroborate the claim. Thats not been provided but as it happens, here 
the point is entirely moot. 
Thats because a part of the settlement RBS has already paid to Mr and Mrs Y is a refund of 
their £995 product fee (in case Mr and Mrs Y decided to apply for another product that came 
with a fee). A product fee is a component of the overall price of a mortgage product, in 
combination with the interest rate, product duration and, where applicable, the ERC. I come 
back to a finding I made earlier in this decision; Mr and Mrs Y have the mortgage product 
they set out to get. That being the case, its reasonable to conclude that they should pay the 
fee for the product. If RBS hadnt refunded the product fee, I would certainly not have contemplated ordering it to 
do so. To the extent that RBS has refunded the product fee when I would not have ordered it 
to do, I have treated that as a goodwill gesture alongside the £500, to compensate 
Mr and Mrs Y for their time, trouble and upset. 
Putting all of the above together, what I find RBS to have done is to have paid Mr and Mrs Y 
£200 compensation for Mr Ys undocumented travel expenses and £1,495 compensation. 
That is, by any reasonable assessment, a very generous settlement that substantially 
exceeds any award I would have been minded to make.
Other matters
RBS sent some information by text to a mobile phone number that, whilst on its records as 
belonging to Mr and/or Mrs Y, apparently didnt reach them; theyve taken that to mean the 
text went to someone other than them, which they say is a breach of data security. 
Generally speaking, data protection issues are a matter for the Information Commissioners 
Office rather than ourselves. That said, if Mr and Mrs Y presented us with persuasive 
evidence that theyd suffered some kind of detriment (for example, identify theft) that could 
be traced back to an unauthorised disclosure of personal information by RBS, then we may 
be able to look into that under a separate complaint, provided RBS had first been given the 
opportunity to put matters right. But theres no suggestion in their evidence that 
Mr and/or Mrs Y have suffered any such detriment to date; that being so, theres nothing 
further for me to do on this point.
Mr and Mrs Y arent happy that they werent given the option of complaining directly through 
their local branch. The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something 
that the regulator requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough to make it a 
regulated activity within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of activities set out 
in the legislation from which we derive our powers.
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, 
but there is another thing that we need to consider and that is that we can only make an 
award for any poor customer service in handling a complaint if were upholding the 
underlying issue being complained about and it is intrinsically linked. 
It's up to RBS how it designs its complaint handling function; again, my lack of a regulatory 
remit doesnt allow me to order the business to take complaints in a particular way. Not 
being able to complain in the branch may not have been Mr and Mrs Ys preference, but its 
hard for me to conclude theyve been in any way hindered from making their complaint and 
referring it to us.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions the intensity with which Mr Y has brought the 
complaint. He sees error or wrong-doing in almost everything the bank has done (or not 
done). Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as 
close to a situation as Mr and Mrs Y have been here.
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and decide what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic. It also means that Im not required to provide answers to every specific 
question that comes up, if I dont consider doing so will affect the overall outcome.Mr and Mrs Y dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
RBS will be bound by my final decision, and RBS wont be required to take any further steps. 
Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, Mr and Mrs Ys right to 
take legal action against RBS over the subject matter of this complaint wont have been 
prejudiced by our consideration of it.
  
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, I 
order The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to write a letter to Mr and Mrs Y confirming the 
following information about their mortgage:
the loan amount; 
product type and duration;
product start and end dates;
remaining mortgage term;
the ERC;
over payment allowances;
number of payments remaining; and
the date of the final payment.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman