DRN-3649708
The complaint
Mr S complains about his mortgage with Topaz Finance Limited trading as Heliodor 
Mortgages. Mr S complains that Topaz:
-hasnt sent clear information about the position of his secured mortgage and because of the
misleading information Mr S is now in arrears;
-cant offer new mortgages or interest rate products; and
-has been recording incorrect information about his Together mortgage to the credit 
reference agencies. Mr S says he believes Topaz has recorded a default on his Together 
loan and this is having an impact on his ability to move his mortgage to another lender.
Mr S wants Topaz to write off the unsecured loan so he can remortgage with another lender.
He also feels compensation might be needed because the financial impact of being unable
to move his mortgage has had on him.
What happened
In December 2007 Mr S refinanced his mortgage with Northern Rock. He borrowed around
£124,000 on an interest only mortgage. Alongside this Mr S borrowed around £24,000 as an 
unsecured loan stapled to the mortgage. Mr S has also taken out two secured loans from 
Northern Rock between 2006 and 2008.
Following Northern Rocks collapse in 2008, Mr Ss mortgage and loans were transferred to 
different successor firms. More recently, in 2019, they were transferred to Topaz. Topaz has 
responded to this complaint as the current owner of Mr Ss mortgage and loans.
In 2009 Mr Ss borrowing fell into arrears as he was experiencing financial difficulties. The 
mortgage and loans have remained in arrears since that time, with Mr S prioritising payment 
of the mortgage and secured loans. Respective lenders have accepted token payments 
towards the Together loan and have applied interest rate forgiveness (not charged interest) 
at times.
In November 2020 Mr S complained to Topaz about the impact the unsecured arrears 
were having on his credit file and the fact that he thought Topazs actions were preventing 
him from getting access to a lower interest rate product - either with it or by stopping him 
switch to another lender.
On 23 November 2020 Topaz gave its final response not upholding Mr Ss complaint. It 
said that Mr Ss Together loan was in arrears of nearly £23,000 and 133 months in arrears. 
It said, although Mr S was in a debt management plan, it had a duty to accurately record 
Mr Ss loan as being in arrears on his credit file.
Topaz also said that it was unable to offer new products to residential mortgage 
customers at that time. And that it was not under a legal or regulatory obligation to do so. 
It said other prospective lenders would need to make the commercial decision whether or 
not to offer Mr S a mortgage and that wasnt something it could influence.
On 21 December 2020 Topaz issued a second final response to a further concern Mr S had 
raised about conflicting information about his mortgage arrears. Topaz arranged for Mr S to 
be sent a statement of the arrears on the secured element of the mortgage. It didnt give 
any further information about issues covered in the final response it had shared with Mr S 
the previous month.
Mr S was unhappy with Topazs final responses and referred his concerns to us. Our 
investigator looked into what had happened. Having done so, he didnt think Mr Ss 
complaint should be upheld.
Our investigator thought Topaz had accurately recorded the conduct of Mr Ss mortgage on 
his credit file and that it was able to decide whether or not it chose to make new interest 
rate products available to its customers. He also thought Topaz had provided reasonably 
clear information about the mortgage balance and Together loan and that it wasnt fair to 
hold it responsible for Mr Ss arrears.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint again and reach a final decision on 
the matter.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 1 August 2022. I explained why I thought Mr Ss complaint 
should be upheld in part. 
I could see that Mr S had experienced financial difficulties in the past and in 2010 he 
entered into a debt management plan. Historically the level of mortgage arrears had 
reached a point where Mr Ss predecessor lender had planned to take the matter to court. 
Mr S was then given time to repay the arrears and get straight with the mortgage.
In recent years Mr S had nearly cleared the mortgage arrears. He had reached a position 
of being around one month behind with his mortgage repayments with a remining arrears 
balance of around £250 to pay before he was up to date with the mortgage. This came 
about following years of Mr S gradually reducing his arrears month by month.
In January 2021, Mr S took out a three-month payment deferral under the FCAs special 
arrangements in response to the covid-19 pandemic. Topaz said at the end of this three 
month arrangement, Mr S didnt start making mortgage payments again. No payments 
were made in April or May 2021 and then a payment of £334.10 was made in June 2021. 
No further payments were made until April 2022.
Having looked at the contact between Mr S and Topaz over this time, including the notes of 
phone calls and the letters that Topaz has sent Mr S, I wasnt persuaded that Mr Ss 
mortgage was in arrears due to a misunderstanding about the mortgage. Rather it seemed 
to me the mortgage had fallen back into arrears as Mr S appeared not to have resumed 
making repayments following the end of the covid payment deferral.
I thought Topaz had taken reasonable steps to let Mr S know the amount outstanding 
under his various loan accounts. I didnt think this part of the complaint should be upheld.
Interest rate productsMr S had complained that Topaz wouldnt make new interest rate products available to him. 
I said I appreciated that it had been years since Mr Ss last interest rate product expired and 
that he had been on his lenders standard variable rate ever since. I could understand why 
Mr S felt trapped on this rate and why he wanted Topaz to help him to get access to lower, 
more competitive interest rate products.
Topaz told us that it had made the commercial decision not to offer interest rate products or 
further lending to any of its customers. It has chosen to operate as a closed book or an 
inactive lender. I said this was a decision that Topaz was able to make and that theres no 
law or mortgage regulation that says a mortgage lender must offer new interest rate 
products to its customers. I also said Topaz was treating all of its customers in the same 
way, so I didnt think it had treated Mr S any less favourably than any other mortgage 
holders. I didnt plan to uphold this part of the complaint.
Recording Mr Ss borrowing on his credit file
I considered the way that Mr Ss mortgage is reported to the credit reference agencies. Mr S 
told us his Together loan had been defaulted in the past. Topaz confirmed that Mr Ss loan 
had not been defaulted historically. As a result of this, the Together loan which was in 
arrears of over £22,000 was continuing to be recorded on his credit file.
Topaz had offered to do something different with Mr Ss Together loan to resolve this part of 
the complaint since the matter had been passed for a final decision. 
I explained that Topaz had said it would backdate the default on the Together loan to 
2010, when Mr S entered into a debt management plan. I considered the result of the 
retrospective defaulting of the Together loan would benefit Mr Ss current position. From 
2016 onwards there would no longer be any record of the Together loan arrears on Mr Ss 
credit history. And Topaz also confirmed that it will rework Mr Ss Together loan so no 
interest was applied to this loan from 2010 onwards. I noted this should reduce the 
outstanding balance to be repaid.
I thought it is appropriate that Topaz had offered to change the way this borrowing has 
been reported on Mr Ss credit file. I felt this would give Mr S the ability to prioritise getting 
his mortgage and other secured borrowing up to date without worrying about the impact of 
the Together loan on his credit file.
However, I made it clear, Mr S would still be liable to repay the Together loan balance. 
This loan was not being written off. Rather, the loan would be recorded as having been 
defaulted many years ago. And this would mean the Together loan would no longer attract 
any interest from 2010 or be recorded on Mr Ss credit file from 2016.
I explained why I didnt think it was fair for me to ask Topaz to write off this loan balance to 
settle this complaint. I didnt think it would be reasonable for me to direct Topaz to do that 
in the specific circumstances of Mr Ss complaint. Mr S had borrowed the money and had 
received the benefit of the funds. Mr S has struggled to repay the loan during most of its 
term. But I didnt think Topaz has acted unreasonably by not offering to write off this debt. 
I said that Mr S would need to work with Topaz to find an affordable way to repay the 
Together loan.
I thought Topazs offer to retrospectively backdate the default on the Together loan, update 
the credit file and rework the loan as if no interest has been applied since 2010 was fair and 
reasonable to resolve this part of the complaint.
Responses to my provisional decisionBoth Topaz and Mr S have responded to say they accept my provisional decision. Mr S has 
mentioned he has concerns about the term of his loans. As our investigator has explained, 
these are new issues that have not formed part of this complaint. I have not considered new 
concerns raised by Mr S in making my decision.
Topaz will need a chance to respond to Mr Ss new concerns before we look into these 
issues about Mr Ss Together mortgage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional findings and so I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. 
Putting things right
Topaz has now offered to backdate the default on the Together loan to 2010, update Mr Ss 
credit file to reflect this, and rework the loan as if no interest has been applied since the date 
of default. I think that is fair and reasonable to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
Mr final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Topaz Finance Limited trading as 
Heliodor Mortgages. I direct Topaz to retrospectively default Mr Ss loan, as if it had been 
defaulted in 2010, and to update his credit file to reflect this. No interest should be added to 
the Together loan from the date Topaz applies the default. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman