DRN-4158695
The complaint
Mr A complains that Revolut wont refund money he lost, which he believes was fraudulently 
taken from his account, without his authority.
What happened
There appears to have been some differences in the version of events presented to Revolut 
when the fraud claim was first raised with it, against the version of events later brought to 
Revolut and this service by Mr A.
On the one hand Mr A told Revolut that his principal bankers had called him regarding 
concerns of fraudulent activity and recommended that he moved funds elsewhere. Leading 
him to transfer £19,000 on 4 May 2022 to his Revolut account, from the account he held with 
his principal bankers. But Mr A, when our Investigator sort clarity, explained that the £19,000 
he transferred to Revolut, was instead money that he had moved from his other bank, with 
the intention of using the funds for a planned trip abroad.
But what doesnt appear to be in dispute, and what I understand to be the crux of the matter, 
is that Mr A has said that shortly after the £19,000 was transferred into his Revolut account, 
it was moved, without his knowledge, to a third party that was unknown to him.
Later the same day, on realising the money had gone, Mr A, who has said he was travelling 
at the time, raised the matter with Revolut. Mr A added that, due to problems he was having 
with his phone in accessing the Revolut application, he also asked a friend and his principal 
bank to reach out to Revolut in order to highlight the fraud. Mr A has said he doesnt believe 
that Revolut did anything to ensure the return of the money that was stolen from him, after 
the matter had been raised with it.
Revolut looked into Mr As complaint and issued its final response on 21 June 2022 not 
upholding the complaint. In summary, it said due to security and privacy reasons it wouldnt 
have been able to provide information about Mr As account to a third party under any 
circumstances, but that it advised Mr As friend that Mr A should contact it as soon as 
possible. It added that it had determined there were no signs of fraudulent activity on Mr As 
account, and that protections had been present for both Mr As iPhone device and in the 
Revolut App at the time the transaction was made.
Unhappy with Revoluts response, Mr A then brought his complaint to this service. One of 
our Investigators looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary this was 
because she was satisfied, having considered the evidence, that Mr A had authorised the 
payment. Our Investigator also considered the service Revolut had provided and thought it 
had acted appropriately.
Mr A didnt agree with our Investigators view. He explained that one of the issues was with 
the time it took Revolut to understand the issue and take remedial action. He added that an 
account he held with another payment provider was also hacked, but as they acted 
immediately they were able to recall and recredit other funds that had been lost.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice at the time.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
The first thing I need to decide is whether I think Mr A authorised the transaction. Mr A has 
repeatedly told Revolut and this service that he didnt authorise the transaction for £19,000 
that left his account. Generally, Revolut can hold Mr A liable for the disputed transaction if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that he made or authorised the transaction 
himself.
In the circumstances of this case, the weight of evidence that is available to me suggests 
that Mr A did authorise and consent to the payment. I say that for the following reasons:
- The payment was made using a device that Mr A had used on numerous occasions 
in the past for genuine transactions and that was registered to his account. The same 
device was used to log into the account on 4 May 2022, make the transaction and 
then the same device was used to contact Revolut via its chat function later in the 
day.
- Mr A has also confirmed that his mobile device is both passcode and Face ID 
protected and Revoluts activity logs show these were keyed/submitted successfully 
both prior to and after the transactions were made. So overall, I am satisfied from the 
banks technical evidence that Mr As genuine security details were used to make the 
disputed transaction.
- When also considering there has been no point of compromise for Mr As mobile 
device or for the security credentials he uses to log onto his Revolut account. I cant 
see how a third-party would have been able to make the payment, without Mr As 
passcode and through bypassing Face ID security.
Overall and on balance, when considering the individual circumstances of this case, Ive not 
seen any feasible or credible evidence to support a conclusion that someone else made the 
payment. As Im persuaded Mr A authorised the payment, Revolut can hold him liable for it.
Im mindful that Mr A considers that had Revolut acted more quickly when he, his friend and 
his principal bankers raised the matter with it, then it would have been able to recover the 
money he lost. But the evidence Ive seen from the beneficiary account (the account to 
which the money was paid) shows that the funds were moved on again within a few minutes 
of the transaction being made. I can see that any contact made with Revolut to raise fraud 
concerns was after the funds had already been moved on. So Im persuaded Revolut hasnt 
missed an opportunity to recover the money.For the reasons Ive explained Im not persuaded Revolut has done anything wrong and so it  
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask it to refund Mr A the money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman