DRN-2372579
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tor Currency Exchange Limited didnt close his account and continued 
to harass him after he asked for it to be closed. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mr M opened a foreign exchange account with Tor. About an hour later, he 
asked for it to be closed and requested that Tor no longer contact him or send him emails. 
Tor initially said that while it could treat the account as dormant, it wasnt allowed to close it 
for six months or delete his information in order to comply with rules set by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) and Anti-Money Laundering Regulation (AML). It confirmed that it 
would not send him emails. 
Shortly after this, Mr M complained that he was still receiving emails from Tor. It looked into 
the matter, and confirmed that two automatically generated emails had in fact been sent to 
him, and it apologised. 
Mr M complained once more, explaining that he was still receiving emails from Tor  and 
that he had begun receiving emails from other FX companies. He said this must have meant 
Tor had sold his data on. Tor denied it had sold his personal information, and therefore 
asked Mr M to provide copies of the emails so that it could investigate. Upon looking into the 
matter further, Tor discovered that as Mr M had been searching for FX companies using 
Google, he was receiving Google ad pop-ups. Tor confirmed that it had nothing to do with 
this, and therefore wasnt something it could do anything about. Tor advised Mr M what he 
could do to ensure he stopped receiving these adverts. 
Mr M remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, but didnt consider it should be upheld. 
He said:
Whilst he acknowledged Mr Ms desire to have all his information erased, Tor had an 
overriding obligation to follow any relevant laws and regulations  and these required 
a certain amount of information be kept after an account was opened. He noted Tor 
had confirmed that the account would be treated as dormant and wouldnt have any 
adverse impact on Mr M. 
The apology Tor provided to Mr M for the two unsolicited emails was fair and 
reasonable. And while he acknowledged the upset this caused Mr M, he didnt think it 
would be fair to ask Tor to pay compensation for this. 
He had seen insufficient evidence to conclude that Tor had sold Mr Ms details to 
third parties. He advised Mr M that these concerns may be best raised with the 
Information Commissioners Office. 
The investigator also asked Tor for some further explanations:
Tor had explained that it was required by the FCA to keep records of anybody that 
opened an account. It said that at the moment, this information needed to be kept for 
six years. 
Tor confirmed that it never sold client data and isnt something it would ever consider 
doing. It said it adhered to all relevant data handling regulations. Tor explained that 
Mr M had found its services online, and it was therefore his search history which had 
prompted google adverts to appear on his phone. 
Tor immediately apologised for the two automatically generated emails which were 
sent to Mr M. However it explained that these were automatically sent upon an 
account being opened  and it hadnt been possible to prevent these being sent 
given that Mr M had asked to have his account closed an hour later.
Mr M didnt agree. In short, he said:
He never looked online for other companies offering similar services to Tor. 
Tor had laundered his details to third party companies and had lied to the 
investigator about this. 
Tor had threatened him with court action if he complained about the issue
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I have very little to add to what the 
investigator has already said. 
The allegation that an FCA regulated firm has sold his personal data to a third party is a 
serious one which I can see the investigator has looked into thoroughly. But whilst I 
acknowledge Mr M is convinced that this is whats happened, Im not persuaded by the 
evidence he has provided  which in short is a series of screenshots of google adverts about 
companies offering similar services and some unsolicited emails. 
Im not persuaded any of that is evidence that Tor has done something wrong  and one of 
the screenshots from May 2020 which shows Tor advertising its services is clearly a google 
advert. I note that the examples of unsolicited emails he received (both from the same firm) 
date from June and July 2020 but, reassuringly for Mr M, neither email refers to Mr M by 
name or makes reference to any other identifiable information. This would indicate that the 
sender of the email did not have access to Mr Ms personal data, merely his email address. 
Unfortunately, it is a sad and very frustrating feature of the internet age that email addresses 
are frequently exchanged online  this, of itself, falls well short of the bar required to 
conclude Tor of unlawfully selling his data. 
Ive considered Mr Ms other complaints points  but here too, there isnt much I can add. Its 
very unusual for a consumer to open an account such as this, and then require its immediate 
closure an hour later. 
Given the nature of the account, Im satisfied Tors explanations for why it cannot delete his 
information or the account in the way that Mr M wants are reasonable. Treating it as 
dormant, and marking his account in such a way that he will not be contacted in future is in my view sufficient in these particular circumstances. Im persuaded by Tors explanations 
around this, including that it will delete Mr Ms data as soon as it is legally allowed to do so. 
FCA regulated firms are required to have strict governance processes in place to deal with 
client information, and the retention and deletion of customer information is key to that. Ive 
seen insufficient evidence to suggest that Tor doesnt have such processes in place, that 
they are in any way deficient nor that it is unwilling to follow such processes in Mr Ms case. 
Finally, Ive considered the two emails which were sent to Mr M after he asked for his 
account to be closed and for Tor not to contact him. I understand Mr M was upset by this  
but Im satisfied an apology is sufficient to put things right here. I think its common place that 
account opening is largely an automated process, and for most accounts, a series of 
automatically generated emails are to be expected  they set out important things which 
consumers ought to be aware of such as the services the account can offer, any relevant 
terms and the like. Whilst receiving such an email wouldve been potentially annoying, Im 
not persuaded the upset caused by receiving such emails, in relation to an account he had 
opened and closed in such quick fashion, ought to mean Mr M is entitled to compensation. 
Im satisfied Tors apology for those emails, and the fact that it has not sent any since, are 
enough to put matters right for Mr M. Im therefore not going to require it to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 January 2021.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman