DRN-1766124
The complaint
Mrs P says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy alongside a credit card.
What happened
Mrs P applied for the credit card in January 1998, and at the same time a PPI policy was 
added to the account.
The cost of the policy was charged to the account, so Mrs P would pay this extra cost with 
interest in line with the terms and conditions of the card. The policy would have helped repay 
what Mrs P owed to the card if she'd been off work sick or lost her job.
Mrs P says the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. Mrs P didn't 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case.
I've decided the PPI wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Mrs P chose to buy the policy. RBS has sent us a copy of the 
application form for the credit card. I see that to apply for PPI Mrs P needed to tick a box 
labelled "For cover just tick this box". This box is ticked. 
The application form suggests that Mrs P gave some thought to what she entered on the 
form. She declined a separate product, card protection, writing that she was "already 
covered". I also see that Mrs P initially completed the form naming an additional cardholder, 
but crossed this out and said this was "not required". So I'm satisfied that Mrs P wanted to 
apply for PPI - and chose to buy it.
Mrs P took out the card and PPI by post - so I don't think the sale followed a tailored 
recommendation. This means RBS didn't need to check if the policy was right for Mrs P. But 
it still needed to give Mrs P the information she needed to work out for herself if this was 
something she wanted. 
It's possible the information RBS gave Mrs P about the PPI wasn't as clear as it should have 
been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks as though she wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what I've seen of her circumstances, it doesn't look as though she was affected by 
any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, so it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It looks as though the PPI was affordable. So I don't think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off buying the cover.
This means RBS doesn't have to pay back all the cost of the PPI. 
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because: 
    RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have told Mrs P about that. Because RBS didnt tell [consumer], that was 
unfair. 
    To put that right, RBS  has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs P has said - including what she's said about her sick pay 
and other insurance. But these points dont change my decision. While I accept that Mrs P 
got some sick pay from her employer, this policy would have paid 10% of the outstanding 
balance on the date she stopped work for up to 12 months if she lost her job or was off work 
sick. I think it would have paid out in addition to any sick pay she got from her employer. It 
would also have paid out if she was made redundant. Given what the policy cost and what 
she'd get if she claimed on it, I'm not persuaded that her other insurance means she'd be put 
of buying this policy. And for the reasons I've already explained I'm satisfied Mrs P wanted 
this type of cover.
Mrs P also says she didn't know she was paying for this insurance. But I'm satisfied she 
knew she was applying for the policy. And I see that the cost of the policy was separately 
listed on all the statements I've seen. So this doesn't change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs P any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman