DRN-3971675
Complaint
Mrs A has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable and led to her having to go into a 
payment plan.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mrs A with a loan for £2,500.00 in January 2021. This loan had a 
term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £5,347.08, including 
interest, fees and charges of £2,847.08, was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of 
£148.53. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mrs As complaint and he thought Everyday Loans 
shouldnt have provided Mrs A with her loan. So he thought that Mrs As complaint should be 
upheld. 
Everyday Loans didnt agree so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs As complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mrs As complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it acted fairly and reasonably when lending to Mrs A. 
In practice, what this means is Everyday Loans needed to find out enough about Mrs A such 
that it could have a reasonable understanding of whether Mrs A could afford to repay any 
credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
before this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Mrs A was already indebted 
 including being overdrawn, which was confirmed by the bank statements obtained too. 
Im also concerned that Everyday Loans own income and expenditure calculation showed 
that this loan would take Mrs A right to the margin of her disposal income. And Everyday 
Loans relied on the use of average data and minimum payments to her revolving credit 
commitments to calculate Mrs As expenditure when arriving at its monthly disposable 
income figure.
Ive also considered that the recorded purpose of this loan appears to have been debt 
consolidation. However, the amount advanced wasnt enough to clear Mrs As debts. In 
these circumstances, its unclear to me how or what was going to be consolidated and more 
crucially how this loan, which was on such disadvantageous terms, was going to improve 
Mrs As outgoings going forward. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Mrs A has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time she took out this loan. And while its 
possible Mrs As difficulties reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that 
my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any 
reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept   
Mrs As version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mrs As existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable enquiries into Mrs As circumstances would more 
like than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to her. As 
Everyday Loans provided Mrs A with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Mrs A ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Mrs A lost out because of what Everyday Loans did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mrs A
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mrs A by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mrs A paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mrs A to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information recorded about this loan from Mrs As credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs As complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman