DRN-1913209
The complaint
Miss S says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a Tech pack. She says that 
she was told that she had to have the Tech pack to retain her overdraft facility. Miss S also 
says that she requested on a number of occasions to have the Tech pack removed. But she 
says she was told that she had to keep it to keep her overdraft.
What happened
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think the Tech pack had been mis-
sold and that there was not enough to say the Miss S was told that she had to keep the Tech 
pack. Miss S disagreed, so the complaint has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this case.
Having considered everything that has been provided, I dont think the Tech pack had been 
mis-sold, or that Miss S was told that she had to keep the Tech pack to retain her overdraft. I 
will explain why.
Firstly, I should highlight that the Tech pack was not sold to Miss S. What actually happened 
was in 2016 Barclays decided to change the products it offered and withdrew the Current 
Account Plus, that Miss S held at the time, and replaced it with an option to have a fee-free 
current account with an optional Tech pack.
Barclays is entitled to change the types of accounts it offers its customers and to withdraw 
certain accounts. However, when taking these actions Barclays needs to notify its customers 
and explain the changes clearly. 
Barclays has provided copies of two letters it sent to Miss S  one before it changed her 
account, and one to confirm it had been changed. I note that the letters are personally 
addressed to Miss S. The first letter, sent in March 2016, gave Miss S information on the 
upcoming changes that would be happening on her account. The second page of the letter 
gave several options, including opting out of the change and choosing to have a fee-free 
account without Tech pack. It also highlighted that if an account holder had an arranged 
overdraft they could continue with it at the same level if they chose to not have a Tech pack 
and that the only difference would be that the interest free element of their overdraft would 
be removed.
The letter gave Miss S the option of calling to make this change or visiting a Barclays branch 
to do so. The second letter was sent in May 2016. It confirmed that Miss Ss account had 
been changed. And again on the second page it highlighted that Miss S could remove the 
Tech pack if she wished to do so.
So I think that Barclays did enough to highlight that Miss Ss account was changing from a 
fee-paying Current Account Plus to a fee free current account with an optional Tech pack. 
And that it highlighted to Miss S that she could opt out of having this pack if she wished to do 
so and still retain her overdraft facility.
Miss S says that she asked for the Tech pack to be removed on a number of occasions but 
was told that she had to keep the account in order to keep her overdraft. 
I have listened to a number of calls that Barclays has provided and in those calls I did not 
hear any requests from Miss S to downgrade her account. The only call that mentioned the 
Tech pack was in 2018 when a member of staff clarified what the account benefits were. But 
he did not say that she needed to keep the account in order to retain her overdraft. Rather, 
he said that one of the benefits of the account was a £200 interest free overdraft. Also based 
on the way Miss S talked about the Tech pack it did not seem as if she had discussed the 
Tech pack with Barclays before, as she said in this call she didnt know she had it. This 
suggests to me that she had not previously been told by Barclays that she had to have the 
Tech pack to have an overdraft, otherwise I think its likely she wouldve mentioned it at this 
time.
Miss S has pointed to a letter issued in February 2017 by Barclays as evidence that she had 
discussed the Tech pack with Barclays and had requested it be removed. I have looked at 
this letter and I can see that this is a response issued about a complaint that Miss S raised 
about the packaged bank accounts she held prior to the Tech pack, rather than a complaint 
about the Tech pack. I also note that this letter highlighted that Miss S still held a Tech pack 
and says that if she wants to cancel it she can do so and have a fee-free account. So I dont 
think that this letter supports that Miss S had been told that she had to keep the Tech pack.
As such, taking everything into account I dont think that Barclays did anything wrong in 
relation to the Tech pack. I therefore think it would be inappropriate to require Barclays to 
refund Miss S the fees shes paid for it over the years.  
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman