DRN-4287536
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, didnt inform him about other 
savings products that were available when he opened a joint savings account in 2020.
What happened
Mr H opened a joint savings account with HSBC in 2020. At that time, HSBCs agent asked 
Mr H if he wanted information on the other savings products that they offered. Mr H said no. 
But in June 2023, Mr H complained to HSBC because hed learned that another savings 
account offered by HSBC in 2020 had a better rate of interest than the account he opened.
HSBC responded to Mr H and noted that in 2020 hed specified that he wanted to open an 
instant access account jointly with his partner and that the account he had then opened was 
the only account offered at that time which had met Mr Hs criteria. HSBC also noted that 
theyd offered to inform Mr H about their other savings accounts, but that Mr H had declined. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel HSBC had acted 
unfairly by managing the situation as they had. Mr H remained dissatisfied, and noted that 
hed declined HSBCs offer of information because hed already reviewed the products that 
HSBC had listed on their mobile banking app, and had only later discovered that not all 
products were listed by HSBC on their mobile app. Mr H felt that HSBC werent being fair to 
consumers by not listing all their available savings products on their mobile app. So, the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H feels that HSBC not listing all available savings products on their mobile banking app 
means they arent treating consumers fairly. But its for HSBC to decide which products they 
list on their mobile app, and HSBC have explained their mobile banking app is designed for 
day-to-day banking and that it isnt feasible for them to have their entire website  which 
does have information about all their available products  on their mobile banking app.
HSBCs position on this matter seems reasonable to me. Additionally, this service isnt a 
regulatory body, and so it isnt within my remit to instruct a business how they should 
operate. Rather, my remit is focussed on whether I feel an unfair outcome has occurred to a 
complainant  in this instance Mr H  in light of the events about which they complain.
I dont feel that Mr H has incurred an unfair outcome here. One reason I say this is because 
when Mr H spoke with HSBC in 2020, he clearly stipulated that he wanted an instant access 
savings account that he could open jointly with his partner. And HSBC have confirmed that 
the account Mr H subsequently opened was the only account they offered at that time that 
met Mr Hs requested criteria.
Importantly, the account which Mr H has recently become aware of which offered a higher 
rate of interest didnt meet Mr Hs requested criteria. As such, I dont accept that Mr H has 
lost out on a potentially higher rate of interest as he contends here, because I feel that he 
wouldnt in all likelihood have opened the other type of account, because it didnt meet the 
criteria of being an instant access account that could be held in joint names.
Furthermore, when Mr H opened his account in 2020, HSBCs agent did offer to provide 
information to Mr H about the other types of savings accounts that HSBC offered. Mr H 
declined this offer. And having listened to a recording of the telephone call in question, its 
notable that Mr H reconfirmed to HSBCs agent that he wanted a simple instant access 
account that could be opened in joint names. And HSBCs agent confirmed to Mr H that the 
account he had chosen to open wouldnt offer much interest, but that it would meet the 
criteria he was requesting  to which Mr H confirmed that he was happy to proceed.
Finally, if it was the case that Mr H declined the offer of further information on the basis that 
he mistakenly believed that all of HSBCs products were listed on the mobile banking app, 
then I feel that this incorrect assumption on Mr Hs part was unfortunate, but not unfair. This 
is because, as explained, Im satisfied that its for HSBC to decide which products they will 
list on their mobile banking app. 
I also feel that Mr H could reasonably have explained to HSBCs agent in 2020 that he 
believed he had already viewed the savings products offered by HSBC on their mobile 
banking app, which I feel most likely would have led to HSBCs agent correcting Mr Hs 
incorrect assumption. But Mr H didnt do this. Rather, as explained above, he confirmed that 
he was happy with the account he had chosen, which met his stated criteria, and which it 
was explained at that time didnt offer a particularly high rate of interest.
All of which means that I dont feel that HSBC have acted unfairly towards Mr H as he 
contends. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
HSBC to take any further action. I hope Mr H will understand, given what Ive explained, why 
Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman