DRN-2024849
The complaint
Mr T complained because Metro Bank Plc closed his account, and recorded a CIFAS marker 
against his name.
What happened
On 3 August 2019, Mr T opened a cash account with Metro Bank. 
On 21 August 2019, £3,800 was credited to Mr Ts account.
 Mr T withdrew:
- £250 cash at a cash machine on 21 August;
- £3,000 cash at a different cash machine about an hour and a half later the same day;
- £250 from a third cash machine on 22 August. 
Metro Bank then received notification that the credit consisted of fraudulent funds.
On 5 September, Metro Bank wrote to Mr T to give him formal notice that it would close his 
account in 7 days. Metro Bank said it was unable to continue to act as his bank, and 
wouldnt make any new banking services available to him.
Mr T complained. But Metro Bank didnt uphold his complaint. It told him that it had reviewed 
Mr Ts account after being notified by a third party that the £3,800 had been fraudulent.
In January 2020, Mr T complained to this service. Mr T had found out that Metro Bank had 
recorded a CIFAS marker against his name, and he wanted this removed. He initially told the 
investigator that hed had no idea the money was fraudulent, and had just kept the money 
because he thought no-one would notice. 
Mr T told the investigator that his brother had owed him money. His brother had phoned in 
August 2019 to say he was going to pay the £3,000 which he owed Mr T, into Mr Ts Metro 
Bank account. Mr T told the investigator that he didnt remember taking out £250 on 21 
August 2019, but that after hed taken out the £3,000, he gave the Metro Bank card and PIN 
to his brother.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. He didnt think Metro Bank had been 
unreasonable when it had closed Mr Ts account, or when it had recorded the CIFAS marker 
against his name. The investigator explained that hed thought about what Mr T had said 
about his brother. But he wasnt persuaded that Mr T didnt know the funds might not be 
legitimate.
Mr T put forward many reasons and explanations for what had happened, and why the 
CIFAS marker should be removed. In summary, he said:
- He didnt have anything to do with what had happened and didnt know the money 
had been taken from someone else;
- Hed spoken to his mother, and had found out the same thing had happened to her, 
and his brother had been in prison over the issue, but Mr T said he hadnt known 
about this until after the issue with Metro Bank;
- He said he withdrew the £3,000 cash in order to buy his brothers car;
- The reason hed opened the account with Metro Bank was because his normal bank 
had refused to increase his overdraft. It had been his brothers suggestion to open 
the Metro Bank account;
- Mr T also said the reason hed opened the account with Metro Bank was to try to 
increase his credit score.
The investigator considered Mr Ts further points but still didnt consider Metro Bank was 
wrong to close Mr Ts account, or to have recorded the CIFAS marker.
Mr T wasnt satisfied and asked for an ombudsman decision. He gave more detail about 
what hed done with the cash from the £3,000 withdrawal, and how much of it hed given or 
lent to his brother. Mr T also said that the last time hed taken out a large amount of money 
to send to his brother, the account had been frozen because the bank had thought it was 
suspicious. And he didnt want that to happen again, so he hadnt used his account with the 
other bank.
Mr T also said that he wasnt disputing the fact a crime had been committed. But he said 
hed been willing to report everything as soon as hed found out. He said he didnt see why 
he had to have a CIFAS marker, because he was a victim as well, and he doubted that this 
would stop his brother doing the same thing again.
Mr T also said that if, as had been assumed, he knew about the fraud, hed also have known 
about the consequences of a CIFAS marker. He said it wasnt fair to say he was smart 
enough to  agree to be involved but not smart enough to check the repercussions. And he 
also said that if hed got away with it, why would he stop there.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has raised multiple points in his submissions to the service. Ive understood and looked 
into all of those, but Ive commented on what I think is vital to my conclusions. 
Power to close Mr Ts account
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Ts account, Metro Bank had the power to withdraw 
banking facilities. The relevant section is section 11.2 of the Terms and Conditions of the 
account. This says that the bank may suspend, stop or reduce a service, facility of an 
account it provides. The reasons include
 If we think that
-There has been fraud or other suspicious activity involving your account (or we 
suspect this is the case);
-you have used, are using or getting, or may use or get a service or money illegally, 
fraudulently, or improperly, or that someone else acting on your behalf may do so.
Metro Bank had the power to close the account immediately, though in fact it gave him 7 
days notice before doing so. I accept that Metro Bank received information that the £3,800 which was paid into Mr Ts 
account had been obtained fraudulently, and I have seen evidence of this. 
So I find that Metro Bank had sufficient grounds for closing Mr Ts account, and it didnt act 
unfairly when it did so.
CIFAS marker  how it works
CIFAS is a fraud prevention agency. It maintains a large database, in order to protect 
financial organisations and their customers against fraud. As the CIFAS website sets out, the 
criteria for a marker on the database include:
- There are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or relevant conduct has been 
committed or attempted;
- The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police or a relevant regulatory 
body. 
So Ive gone on to consider whether Metro Bank had sufficient grounds, in the light of this 
requirement, to record a marker against Mr T.
CIFAS marker and Mr Ts account
Mr T opened his new account with Metro Bank on 3 August 2019, and the first and only 
credit was on 21 August for £3,800 which was soon discovered to be fraudulent funds. 
Meanwhile Mr T had taken out most of this money on the same day that it was credited, and 
more the following day. Because the fraudulent money was taken out straightaway, it 
couldnt all be sent back to the person whod been defrauded, who really owned the money.
I note that Mr T doesnt disagree that a fraud was committed. What he says is that it wasnt 
his fault but his brothers. But Im not persuaded that Mr T didnt know what was going on. 
He withdrew the money immediately, which is often a sign that a fraudster wants to remove 
the funds before the fraud can be discovered and withdrawals stopped. 
And Mr T has said that he took out the £3,000 to buy his brothers car. But if he believed the 
incoming money was from his brother, it seems unlikely hed have needed to take it out the 
same day to pay his brother for a car. Its not likely his brother would have sent money, if 
they both knew Mr T was going to pay his brother exactly the same amount back the same 
day.
Mr Ts explanations for several aspects of his complaint have varied over time. To give just 
one example, at different times Mr T said that he opened the Metro Bank account:
- to improve his credit score (though it was a cash account which wouldnt be likely to 
do this); 
- because the other bank wouldnt increase his overdraft;
- because previously his money had been frozen when hed sent money to his 
brothers account.
For this and other aspects, theres no consistency in what Mr T knew.
Ive taken into account the suspicious circumstances. Instead of using his normal bank, Mr T 
opened a new account with Metro Bank and the only incoming transaction was fraudulent. 
When the credit reached the account, Mr T didnt report it to Metro Bank as an anomaly, but 
immediately withdrew the money himself. In addition, Ive borne in mind the inconsistencies in what Mr T said. Having done so, Im not persuaded that Mr T knew nothing about the 
fraud. 
In any case, an account is the responsibility of the account holder. Mr T has argued that a 
CIFAS marker being recorded against him wouldnt be likely to stop his brother doing the 
same thing again. But this isnt the purpose of a CIFAS marker. The purpose is to protect 
financial organisations and their customers.
Taking all these factors into account, I dont consider that Metro Bank was wrong when it 
recorded a CIFAS marker against Mr Ts name.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman