DRN-3385181
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Schroder Unit Trusts Limited (Schroder) failed to transfer all the units 
from her late husbands ISA into her ISA and did not provide clear information about the 
process.
What happened
In January 2021, Mrs W gave instructions to Schroder to transfer her late husbands ISA into 
her name. Prior to this, Mrs W had received a bereavement booklet setting out the options 
available in respect of her late husbands ISA investment, which included selling the 
investment or transferring into either an ISA account or non-ISA account. Schroder sent     
Mrs W an ISA transfer form, which she completed and returned. In a call in February 2021, 
Mrs W was advised that the transfer into her name would be processed.
It is common ground that the transfer was completed and Mrs W received 8164.93 units.  
Mrs W says she ought to have received 8196.43 units being the number of units held in the 
late Mr Ws ISA. Mrs W complained when she received the contract note and saw a shortfall. 
Mrs W says Schroder failed to advise her that the number of units would reduce.
Schroder say they acted upon Mrs Ws instructions to transfer the ISA into her name using 
the APS (additional permitted subscriptions) allowance. But they now accept that clearer 
information could have been provided about the option to transfer into a non-ISA account, 
which would have enabled all units to be transferred (albeit the ISA status would be lost). 
Schroder have acknowledged this shortcoming and paid £100 in compensation. Schroder 
say that they are unable to increase the number of units in Mrs Ws holding due to 
Regulations surrounding an APS ISA allowance and have confirmed that Mrs W received the 
correct value at the time of transfer. However, Schroder did offer to unwind the transfer into 
Mrs Ws ISA and to transfer the full number of units into a non-ISA account.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She thought Schroder sent enough information 
about the options available to Mrs W and she had the opportunity to discuss this during a 
call in February 2021. Our investigator noted that Schroder had made some errors in not 
sending all the transfer forms and not clarifying the sell and buy-back process during the call 
in February 2021. However, our investigator thought it was more likely than not that even if 
the correct steps had been taken, Mrs W would have selected the same option. Overall, she 
thought £100 was fair compensation for the upset caused by these errors.
Mrs W disagrees with the outcome and maintains that this process has caused her upset at 
a difficult time and it would be appropriate to increase the compensation payment. Further, 
she feels that Schroders should change the manner in which they handle investments of the 
deceased.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has now come to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id like to extend my condolences to Mrs W, its clear this has been a very 
difficult time.
I think its helpful to clarify our role. We provide an informal dispute resolution service and we 
have no regulatory or disciplinary powers. That means we cant tell a business how to 
operate. Where we think things have gone wrong, we look to put things right on a fair and 
reasonable basis.
On balance, I consider it is likely that Mrs W wished to retain the ISA status on the funds 
invested in her late husbands ISA. Under the rules applicable at the time, Mrs W was 
entitled to utilise the APS allowance to transfer into her ISA. The allowance was calculated 
as the value of the ISA at the date of the late Mr Ws death or the value of the ISA at the 
point the ISA ceased to be a continuing account (namely at the point it was sold), 
whichever was higher. Ive seen that the value of the funds transferred met the latter 
requirement. Schroder explained that they are not able to transfer the additional units, which 
would have taken the value over this limit. So, whilst I understand Mrs Ws disappointment at 
not receiving all the units, this wasnt something Schroder could facilitate.
Mrs W gave a clear instruction to transfer into her ISA and Ive seen that transfer forms were 
completed. Under the heading Instructions to Transfer my Spouses/Civil Partners 
Schroders ISA into my Own Name, the form said:
Please note that transfers involve the sale and buy-back of Units/shares which may impact 
the number of Units/Shares received. . . 
The form also directed Mrs Ws attention to section 4 of the terms and conditions for further 
information, which explained that the maximum available subscription will be equivalent to 
the value of the ISA held by the deceased at the date of death. Again, the possibility of 
reduction in the Unit/share balance received was highlighted given the sale and buy-back 
process.
On balance, I am satisfied that Schroder did explain that the number of units might differ 
upon transfer. Mrs W also spoke to Schroder in February 2021 and didnt raise any further 
queries about the transaction.
Schroder have accepted that they could have been clearer about the transfer process and 
options available to Mrs W. I think it is fair and reasonable that they have provided a 
compensation payment of £100 for this shortcoming.
Ive seen that Schroder did offer to Mrs W to reconstruct the transfer to enable to full holding 
of units to be transferred to a non-ISA account, which was the alternative option for transfer 
if Mrs W wished to receive all the units. But Mrs W has been clear that she did not wish to 
accept this outcome. This re-enforces my view that even if a non-ISA transfer form had been 
presented at the time, it is likely that Mrs W would still have opted to transfer the APS ISA 
allowance. As Im not persuaded that Mrs W would have done anything differently, I cant 
fairly say she has lost out. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs W, but I wont be asking Schroder to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman