DRN-3487759
The complaint
Ms D complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) declined a claim she made 
on her motor insurance policy and that it also cancelled her policy. 
All references to Haven include its agents.
What happened
Ms D made a claim on her car insurance policy with Haven when her car failed its Ministry of 
Transport (MOT) test. She had bought the car from a dealer in 2020. She said she only 
realised later that it was sold to her as scrap and that some of the dashboard lights were 
on.
Ms D said her car was damaged due to faulty parts and asked Haven to refund her 
premiums and provide her with a replacement car or alternatively to authorise repairs at one 
of its approved repairers. Haven declined the claim and said that as the car wasnt damaged 
because of an accident but due to mechanical failure it wouldnt be able to supply a 
replacement vehicle. 
Ms D complained the following day and said her car wouldnt be economical to repair so she 
wanted a replacement car and a transfer of her insurance to that car. Alternatively, she said 
she wanted a refund of her premium payments. Haven ultimately rejected the complaint. It 
repeated that no incident had occurred and that the policy didnt cover mechanical 
breakdown or failure, or wear and tear. It said it wasnt unreasonable for a car of that age to 
deteriorate and fail an MOT and added that the policy didnt cover such deterioration. Haven 
told Ms D that unless she is going to replace her car, she must cancel her policy due to her 
car not having a valid MOT. 
Just under two weeks later Haven wrote to Ms D saying it would cancel her policy if she 
didnt provide the documents it had requested to validate her policy. It proceeded to cancel 
the policy a week later saying Ms D was in breach of the policy terms and conditions which 
state that for it to insure a car it should have a valid MOT.
Unhappy with its response, Ms D brought her complaint to our service. She says Haven 
should pay her the market value of her car plus compensation, or it should refund her 
insurance premium, pay her compensation, and provide her a replacement car. Our 
investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the policy provided 
cover for loss caused by faulty parts. He said the policy only provided cover for losses such 
as accidental damage, fire, or theft. Our investigator said there was no requirement for 
Haven to refund Ms D any of the premium she paid because it had provided a contract of 
insurance for several months. 
Ms D didnt agree and made a number of points including the following: 
That the policy term at issue was not brought to her attention at the application stage 
or within the 14 days cooling off period. 
She says the faulty part adversely affected the satisfactory performance of her cars 
other mechanical components. Therefore, she thinks the car maintenance 
responsibility was not in, but was rather beyond her control.
That the car manufacturing or insurance industry knew of the issue affecting the cars 
mechanical structure and consequently planned to counteract it by inserting terms 
into their car insurance policies. She doesnt think it was economically worth it for 
Haven to uphold her claim by repairing or replacing her car. 
Ms D also says she was advised that Havens no liability clauses in section B2 of 
the car insurance policy- are unfair and unreasonable because in reality the proper 
maintenance of the car was unachievable because of the engine malfunction that 
adversely affected the cars other mechanical components. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind and said he didnt think there was any evidence to 
suggest that Haven hadnt provided Ms D with her policy booklet to make her aware of the 
policy terms. He added that any complaint about problems with the vehicle would be 
between Ms D and the manufacturer. He didnt think it was something Haven could consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms D, but Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to reassure Ms D that Ive taken everything she and Haven have said into 
consideration, but I havent addressed it all here. Instead, Ive focused on explaining what is 
key to the decision Ive reached. 
I find that many of Ms Ds complaint points are best placed with other businesses. And I can 
see she has complained to the various businesses she believes to be involved here. But my 
role is to consider how Haven dealt with Ms Ds claim as her motor insurer. So, Ive only 
considered Havens actions in relation to the claim Ms D made and the cancellation of the 
policy. 
Ms D has cited several decisions our service has issued to support her claim. Its important 
to highlight, the role of our service is to resolve individual disputes taking into account their 
individual facts. We look at each complaint we receive and make a decision based on what 
is fair and reasonable in the specific circumstances of each case. 
I appreciate Ms D thinks some of Havens policy exclusions are unreasonable, but what 
Haven chooses to provide cover for is a matter for it to decide and its not something we 
would look to interfere with. Ive therefore thought about whether Haven acted in line with the 
terms and conditions, and if its decision was fair and reasonable.Declined claim
Car insurance policies arent designed to provide cover for all eventualities. Ms D claimed on 
her policy as her car failed its MOT test. Ive thought about whether this was covered under 
the policy, and I dont think it was. 
The policy provides cover for loss or damage caused by fire or theft. It also states: 
We will cover You in respect for loss or damage to Your Car which occurs during the Period 
of Insurance caused by accidental or malicious means... 
Ms Ds car wasnt stolen, involved in a fire or in an accident and theres nothing to suggest it 
was maliciously damaged. So, I dont think her claim involved an event insured under her 
policy. Therefore, I think Havens decision to decline the claim on this basis is in line with the 
terms of the policy. I dont think these terms are unusual- they are in a number of motor 
insurance policies I am aware of. So, I think it is fair and reasonable that Haven is able to 
rely on them. 
Even if the circumstances of the loss were valid grounds for a claim, I find the policy 
exclusions meant the damage claimed for wouldnt have been covered. This is because the 
policy excludes loss or damage resulting from wear and tear, as well as: 
Loss or damage to your car as a result of mechanical, electrical, electronic, computer or 
software breakdowns, failures, faults or breakages. 
Neither party disputes that the damage to Ms Ds car was down to mechanical failure. 
However, Ms D thinks the above term is unfair and ambiguous because its not clear 
whether the issues with the car will have been covered by the policy. But I dont agree. I 
think its clear that damage caused by mechanical or electronic failure would not be covered. 
And I dont think it would be reasonable to expect an insurer to list all the components that 
could fail and cause damage to a car. 
Ms D says she would not have taken the policy out had the exclusion been highlighted. I 
would expect an insurer to highlight any important, unusual, or uncommon exclusions in the 
policy. However, I find loss as a result of wear and tear and mechanical failures are common 
exclusions found in motor insurance policies. So, I dont think they needed to be specifically 
highlighted.
Ms D said she didnt read the policy documentation. She has also said she was ignorant of 
car disrepair issues. So, Im not persuaded, that whether the exclusion was highlighted or 
not would have impacted her decision to take out the policy. 
For the reasons Ive given, I dont find Havens decision to decline Ms Ds claim unfair or 
unreasonable. 
Cancellation
The terms and conditions of the policy also say Haven will only provide insurance if 
youmaintain your car in an efficient and roadworthy condition and comply with all 
statutory regulations and car licensing authority regulations regarding its use, 
roadworthiness and condition. (e.g. You must hold a valid MOT certificate and Your car must 
have legally correct tyres, lights brakes etc).
Ms D says the maintenance was beyond her control, but I dont think that means the policy 
should have been kept live or that her claim should have been paid. In the circumstances, I am satisfied it would have been Ms Ds responsibility to arrange the repairs necessary for 
her car to meet the required standard. Haven explained that as the car had failed its MOT 
test and it hadnt been replaced or the policy cancelled, it couldnt continue to insure a 
vehicle which was not in a roadworthy condition. It considered this a breach of the terms and 
I think what it said is reasonable and in line with the term quoted above. 
The terms entitle Haven to cancel the policy if the general conditions arent adhered to. 
Haven gave Ms D an opportunity to cancel the policy. It later asked Ms D to provide a valid 
MOT certificate to validate the policy and informed her it would be cancelled if one wasnt 
provided within seven days. As a valid certificate wasnt provided in that time and the car 
wasnt replaced it cancelled the policy. It says the policy was kept live for 48 days after the 
MOT failure before it was cancelled. I think thats fair.  
Its worth noting, Ms D indicated the car wasnt repaired and she didnt replace it until several 
months after it failed its MOT test. Had the policy not been cancelled, Ms D would have been 
paying to insure a car she could no longer use. 
Ms D has shown the premium was paid monthly. Even though her claim was declined, Im 
satisfied she had still benefitted from the cover the policy provided during the period in which 
she was insured. As such, I dont think Haven needs to refund the portion of the premium 
Ms D already paid.
I accept the car had inherent issues, but I cant hold Haven responsible for this, and I dont 
think it means Ms Ds claim should be paid. I understand this situation has been upsetting to 
Ms D, while I empathise with her position, Im satisfied Haven acted fairly and reasonably 
and I dont think it needs to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman