DRN-4336915
The complaint
Mr F says that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) should have done 
more to stop him trading from his account. He says that they should have identified that he 
was vulnerable and suffering a period of mental ill health. 
What happened
Mr F says that in 2022 he was vulnerable and had poor mental health, due to an ongoing 
divorce. He says that because of this and the financial worry it brought, he decided to trade 
through his HLAM account. 
HLAM say that Mr F deposited £32,500 into his Fund and Share account in May 2022. They 
have provided information to show that 73 trades were placed from this time, to when Mr F 
closed the account in July 2022. 
Mr F complained to HLAM. He said that these trades had been out of character and that he 
had essentially been gambling with his money. He said the poor decision making was due to 
his poor mental health at the time. He said HLAM should have identified this and his 
vulnerability and done more to restrict his trading. 
HLAM responded to say that they sympathised with Mr Fs situation, but didnt feel they had 
done anything wrong. They said that Mr Fs account was execution only and so no advice 
was given. They also stated that they didnt feel that the trades themselves were enough to 
give concern that Mr F was vulnerable and so consider further actions or support. 
Mr F brought his case to our service for an independent review. Following this, HLAM 
provided a further response and noted that Mr F was also unhappy that they hadnt restricted 
his trading on his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) account sooner. They accepted that 
concerns had been raised on 11 July 2022 but the account hadnt been restricted until        
28 July 2022. For this and further mis-information given that they would be looking into 
things further, they offered Mr F £500 for the distress caused. 
Our investigator looked into it, but she didnt think HLAM should have restricted trading on 
Mr Fs Fund and Share account sooner. She didnt feel that the activity from May 2022 was 
enough to raise concern. She also felt that the £500 offer from HLAM for failings in regard to 
the SIPP account was fair. 
Mr F remained unhappy. He maintained that his account activity was out of character and 
unusual and as such should have flagged his vulnerability to HLAM. He said that he didnt 
believe HLAM had sufficient systems in place to identify issues such as his and he didnt 
believe he had been treated fairly and in line with FCA requirements to identify and support 
vulnerable customers. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to start by saying that I sympathise with Mr F. I know that this will not 
have been an easy period, exacerbated I am sure by the losses he has suffered. However, 
for me to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that HLAM should have done 
more to support Mr F and potentially reduce the losses he has suffered. However, I cant say 
that is the case, let me explain why. 
Mr F has highlighted a period between May and July 2022, where he says that trades he 
carried out within his Fund and Share account should have been identified by HLAM as 
unusual activity. However, having reviewed Mr Fs account transactions from inception, I 
dont believe his activity from May 2022 would have notified HLAM of anything unusual or 
triggered them to ask further questions. 
I understand Mr F comments that 73 trades in a period of just under two months was high 
and unusual for him. However, I dont agree that this alone would have been enough to 
trigger any concern with HLAM. I can see a period in March 2021 where Mr F placed 
approximately 14 transactions within a seven-day period, a similar frequency to the period 
complained about. 
Further, the trading activity was a similar pattern to previous months, where Mr F would 
invest in a single or small number of shareholdings and then sell them the same day or 
within a few days. The trades werent placed in anything particularly unusual or risky, 
compared to previous trades. 
Mr F has argued that HLAM do not have adequate systems in place to identify vulnerable 
customers. However, it is not my role to review commercial practices. Reviewing Mr Fs 
individual case specifically, HLAM have said they have a process for monitoring unusual 
patterns, high volumes of trades, no clear investment objectives, contravening prospectus or 
Key Investment Information Documents and that Mr Fs activity didnt do any of this. I am 
satisfied that was the case. 
HLAM have however, offered Mr F £500 compensation. This is because they said that Mr F 
expressly let them know of the difficulties he was facing on 11 July 2022. They say that 
whilst the complaint seemed to refer to the Fund and Share account (which had been 
closed), they should have identified the need to restrict the SIPP account sooner. However, 
this was not done until 28 July 2022. HLAM say they also mis-informed Mr F regarding 
concerns on his SIPP account and should have provided account information sooner. 
Having considered the impact of these issues, I think the £500 HLAM have offered is fair. I 
can see that there were no trades on Mr Fs SIPP account between 11 July and 28 July 
2023, which could have been avoided if HLAM had acted sooner. But I know that this was a 
difficult period for Mr F and it would have been distressing to raise the concerns again before 
anything was done regarding that account. HLAM have said that Mr F hasnt expressly confirmed any other complaint points regarding 
the SIPP account, but that they will consider them if he contacts them. I think this is 
reasonable and I note that the issues do appear different as there werent deposits into the 
SIPP account like there were into the Fund and Share account.
In summary, I dont think that HLAM did anything wrong in not doing anything more to 
support Mr F prior to 11 July 2022. I dont believe any account activity should have alerted 
them to the difficulties he was facing. I agree that Mr Fs SIPP account should have also 
been restricted on 11 July 2022, when Mr F had expressly let HLAM know that he was 
vulnerable. For the impact of this and the communication errors, I think the offer of £500 is 
fair. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons given above, is that the offer of £500 by                 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited is fair in the circumstances and should be 
paid to Mr F in settlement of the complaint, if it hasnt already been.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman