DRN-3835296
The complaint
Mr P complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
Bede Financial Group Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to BFGL.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ps employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr P was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to BFGL 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr P was 54 years old, married and had no financial dependents. He was described 
as being in good health. He had accrued over 32 years worth of service with BSPS.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ps BSPS was approximately 
£864,492. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Mr P had some other pensions which were defined contribution (DC) schemes. The 
total funds amounted to around £41,000.
Mr and Mrs P lived in a home valued at around £160,000 which was mortgage free. 
They had a secured loan originally for £18,000 which was being gradually paid down 
in accordance with the original loan agreement. They had no other debts recorded.
Mr P had left the steel industry by the time of the advice and earned around £28,000 
(gross) per year. Mrs P worked and had her own DB pension scheme with this job. 
After all their household expenses they had some disposable income left over.
Mr and Mr P had some modest cash savings at the time. The also both had premium 
bonds although its not entirely clear how much.
It seems Mr P had a number of advice sessions throughout the second half of 2017. Ive 
noted, for example, that there were meetings in July 2017 and a transfer analysis was 
commissioned in August 2017. BFGL set out its advice in a suitability report on 24 October 
2017. In this it advised Mr P to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of 
personal pension plan. BFGL said this would allow Mr P to achieve his objectives. Mr P 
accepted this advice and so transferred out. In February 2022 Mr P complained to BFGL 
about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension 
but BFGL didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr P referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, BFGL said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr P had at the time. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of BFGL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, BFGL should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ps best interests. Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ps best interests. In particular, I have also carefully 
considered the final response letter from BFGL. Ive carefully considered too, the various 
other responses made to the points contained within our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
Introductory issues
To be clear, I think its helpful for me to first set out that Im aware Mr P made two complaints 
which related to this pension. However, what Im specifically looking at here is whether 
transferring from the BSPS to a personal pension in 2017 was suitable for him.
Im also aware that Mr P has submitted a great deal of information and commentary with his 
complaint. So, Id like to assure him that Ive read everything that hes sent in very carefully 
indeed. And of course, Ive read just as carefully everything sent in by BFGL. However, in 
explaining my decision Ive focussed on the main and relevant points. And just because I 
havent addressed some points in writing, it certainly doesnt mean that I havent taken them 
into account. What this final decision focusses on are the matters which the complaint turns 
on and what affects the overall outcome.
Financial viability 
As Ive said, BFGL commissioned a transfer analysis in August 2017. Ive noted this was 
based on financial information that subsequently changed a little. For instance, the CETV at 
that time was slightly lower than the eventual transfer amount, at £837,192. We know Mr P 
received a slight uplift to this which in my experience wasnt uncommon. I also think the 
figures used to compare Mr Ps existing scheme benefits were for the BSPS rather than the 
BSPS2 details of which were beginning to emerge by the time the advice was eventually 
delivered to Mr P.
BFGL referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the 
time when advising clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical 
yield comparison is only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the 
different schemes. 
BFGL said that the critical yield required to match the benefits of the BSPS2 at the age of 65 
was 7.06%. BFGL has since pointed out that this yield might have been slightly inflated due 
to the changes in the overall pension CETV which Ive mentioned above. We also know that 
BSPS2 critical yields were likely to be somewhere in between the BSPS figures and the PPF 
one; but they would likely have been much closer to the BSPS ones. So, BFGL makes the 
point that these small differences would have slightly changed the critical yield, effectively 
making it a little lower.
I think these points are, to a degree, correct. But of course, BFGL didnt issue its suitability 
report until 24 October 2017 by which time many more details of the BSPS2 were available. 
Ive noted Mr Ps Time to Choose option letter was also issued in October 2017 although I 
cant be sure on what date he received it. And if BFGL is saying now that the critical yield 
figures might have been slightly lower, it should have calculated these at the time and 
entered the updated version in the suitability report so that Mr P could have access to 
information on which he could make an informed decision.Nevertheless, I think the critical yield comparison in Mr Ps situation all pointed firmly one 
way - he was probably going to receive lower pension benefits overall, as a result of 
transferring to a type of personal pension plan. I say this with the following in mind. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and it 
was only 3.8% per year for just over 10 years to retirement (age 65), which is well below the 
critical yield figure Ive referred to above. This implies that reaching a rate of growth that 
made transferring worthwhile from a financial perspective, was quite unlikely when viewed 
from the prism of 2017 and the economic picture at that time. 
But Mr P had also told BFGL that he would like to retire in around three -to- five years time, 
so I think the critical yields ought to have been calculated and shown to him for the early 
retirement ages of around 57 to 60. The discount rate for a retirement at 57 was only 2.7%. 
The discount rate for 60 was only 3.1% and we know 2017 was a period of sustained very 
low interest rates and low bond yields. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower 
projection rate was 2% although these hadnt been updated for some time. So, if anything, 
projected returns would realistically be lower given economic conditions such as very low 
bond yields. BFGL itself also said that someone with Mr Ps attitude to risk (ATR) could 
expect annual returns of anywhere between 2.58% and 5.08% in the types of funds being 
recommended to him.
At the time, BFGL assessed Mr Ps ATR as medium which I think was accurately placed. I 
therefore dont think the adviser had enough information or evidence to recommend 
transferring away from a DB scheme based on a financial comparison basis. I say this 
because the growth assumptions close to the regulators middle projections and also to the 
discount rate were most relevant here in my view. So, I think growth assumptions of around 
2-to-5% were much more realistic. These were below the critical yield figures for the BSPS 
and I believe they would have been below those for the BSPS2, so I think this showed that 
achieving the critical yield, year-on-year, upon transferring out, was unlikely. 
Even if I were to accept the chances of reaching the (unpublished) BSPS2 critical yield was 
slightly better than reaching that of the existing BSPS, Id still need to factor in that there 
would be costs and charges associated with a personal pension which were not present in 
the DB scheme Mr P had, or was able to move into in due course. And in any event, there 
would be little point in transferring - from a financial comparison point of view  unless there 
were clear indications that growth would comfortably exceed the critical yield rate and so 
cope with any additional fees.
Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, BFGLs own transfer analysis said that in order to 
purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by 
the existing scheme, the estimated fund required was much higher than Mr Ps CETV. Even 
to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided 
by the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in payment and no 
guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was £905,602. To be clear, this 
was to buy a much inferior pension. And because this figure is well above Mr Ps CETV, it represents, in my view, a revealing window into the value of the guaranteed pension Mr P 
could be giving up by transferring away to a personal plan.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, BFGL also made mention of the PPF, which it described 
as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the 
sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. The critical yields to match the benefits available 
through the PPF at age 65 were much lower. But these yields related to the reduced benefits 
available with the PPF and BFGL itself says Mr P wouldnt have wanted to transfer to this 
scheme. Again, its also important to remember the effect of charges and fees associated 
with a personal pension. These would have further reduced the potential for future growth. 
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, BFGLs own 
figures showed that transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr P would likely 
receive lower pension benefits in the longer term, when compared against the available DB 
scheme. 
Ive also considered some projections BFGL used to help show that if he transferred out to a 
personal plan, the funds could last Mr P well into retirement. Again, I think most of these 
were based on growth projections which were based on past performance. Its also fair to 
say these were not comparing like-with-like. What BFGL was showing Mr P were 
comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. 
Of course, according to BFGL, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. 
Rather, BFGL said Mr P also had other reasons to transfer away. Ive therefore thought 
about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, 
despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other reasons for transferring
BFGL recommended a transfer to a personal pension plan based on what it said were Mr Ps 
wider objectives. The suitability report mentioned that retiring earlier than 65 was something 
Mr P was very much hoping to do although it was also recorded that this was likely still three 
-to- five years away. 
I have also used all the documents we still have from the advice sessions to summarise the 
following themes as supporting the recommendation to transfer away. The following areas 
were set out in the suitability report effectively justifying the recommendation to transfer 
(which Ive summarised):
Transferring provides to access to a much higher tax-free cash sum. Tax-free cash 
can be used to clear your loan and leave you debt free.
Transferring will give you the financial flexibility to either retire early or take a lower 
paid job
Flexi Access Drawdown is available - you can increase or decrease income taken in 
line with changing needs
You will not be "paying" for a spouse's pension that you may not need - death 
benefits are tax free with a personal plan
You can invest in a wide range of investment funds that have the potential for growth over the longer term. You are to be able to vary the underlying funds and risks within 
the pension to reflect any
So, it seems the supporting reasons that BFGL recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension was broadly for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr P. I have therefore 
considered these issues in turn. 
Achieving higher tax-free cash
I think BFGL promoted to Mr P that he could access more tax-free cash if he transferred to a 
personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum and 
that this was much more than hed get with the DB scheme. It said hed then be able to use 
the remaining funds more flexibly. 
Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when 
compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes 
are calculated differently. But BFGL should have been telling Mr P at the time that extra tax-
free lump sums being removed from a personal pension, potentially in his mid-50s in his 
case, also came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years 
would obviously decrease. 
Linked to this, it was also recorded that Mr and Mrs P had been thinking about moving home 
and potentially building a house. But they also mentioned extending their current home 
instead, and like our investigator Ive concluded that their thoughts about all this were 
aspirational ideas, rather than definite and costed proposals.
I therefore dont think that accessing tax-free cash should have been used as rationale for 
Mr P transferring away from a DB scheme. The implication was that more tax-free cash 
would mean more money but as Ive shown above, this needed to be explained very 
carefully. What the higher tax-free cash meant was that his overall pension benefits were 
being paid differently.
Theres also very little indication that Mr P needed access to a large amount of tax-free cash 
- I explain more about this later. But he could have also accessed tax-free cash with the 
BSPS2 and I havent seen enough evidence to show why this wouldnt have met his needs.
Flexibility
The adviser promoted a transfer partly to allow Mr P to retire early, or at least to work less 
hours. Mr P had said hed consider retiring in around three -to- five years time but I think 
what Ive seen shows he was quite flexible about this. Mr P had said that if he did retire or 
semi-retire, hed like his income to be broadly in the area of between £25,000 -and- £30,000 
and I think this was probably based on maintaining an income that was commensurate with 
what his current standard of living was whilst he was still fully employed.
Mrs P appeared to work part-time when this advice was being sought and she was older 
than Mr P. I think retirement for her was potentially closer, although she too appeared to be 
open to working longer. She had her own pension although we dont have all the details of it 
because they were never recorded. But Mrs P was in a public sector DB scheme and had 
long service, so theres every indication her income (and wider benefits) from this pension 
would have been very good.
For Mr P himself, his BSPS pension was large by most peoples standards. The estimated 
pension at the NRA (10 years distant) was £42,508 per year. Even if he were to take early 
retirement more or less immediately, the amount quoted in his BSPS existing scheme was £23,011 per year if taken all as an annual pension. And if deciding to also take tax-free cash, 
it was £16,338 per year and a lump sum of over £108,000 tax-free. These were BSPS 
figures but we know his former colleagues were receiving quotes about BSPS2 that were not 
demonstrably different. And as Ive said, I think BFGL should have updated the amounts by 
the time of the October 2017 suitability report. Even if these new details were still emerging, I 
think Mr P could have been advised to wait a short time until more accurate figures became 
available.
BFGL makes the point now that neither of these annual pension sums met Mr Ps 
requirements for a £25,000 - £30,000 per year pension. However, we dont know whether  
or to what degree  Mr P wanted or would have chosen to take a tax-free lump sum at 
around this time. As Ive said, the need for having a large amount of cash remains unclear 
as the property build or property improvements mentioned were not yet mature or costed 
ideas. Ive also got no information showing his loan wasnt being paid down in accordance 
with the payment plan and retirement money wasnt needed to pay this off. As Ive stated, 
the advice was provided during a period where interest rates were ultra-low and cash 
deposits received virtually no interest.
I can also confidently say that, in all reality, there was simply no need for Mr P to access his 
British Steel benefits immediately because he had already committed to a minimum of three 
years more at his current job where he earned £28,000 per year. The effect of working 
longer like this would have meant the above BSPS annual pension amounts would be 
somewhat higher. And, of course, if he had worked say, five or six years more, they would 
be higher still. In this context hed have most likely achieved his hoped-for retirement income 
by remaining with the BSPS2 scheme alone.
Of course, we know Mr P also had some other pensions. I accept that in pension terms, the 
combined value of these (around £41,000) might seem modest. But again, if working for 
several years more, as he had committed to, Mr P might reasonably see the value of these 
schemes increase, particularly if he was still contributing to the one offered by his current 
employer. Ive also noted too, that he was paying £125 per month into his current work-
related share scheme. He also did still have some monthly disposable income which he 
could have channelled tax-efficiently into a DC scheme. So, I dont think its unreasonable to 
say that in a few years time, Mr Ps other DC pensions would have represented a 
meaningful total overall.
This all means that Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr P wouldnt want to continue 
membership of a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally 
intended. If all he needed was upwards of £25,000 per year I think the adviser should have 
pointed out that this already seemed achievable given the income that would be available 
from BSPS2. And if hed needed a little more, there was meaningful other income he could 
call upon from the DC schemes. 
I dont think BFGL adequately explained these things to Mr P as its advice simply discounted 
him transferring to the new scheme to obtain flexibility which was poorly defined and which 
he didnt need.
So, I dont think theres anything showing Mr Ps pension entitlements in both the DB and DC 
schemes, and Mrs Ps own DB pension wouldnt have fairly easily met their anticipated 
future income requirements when retired. This could be achieved without any need for Mr P 
to transfer away from a DB scheme. I think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, 
Mr P could have been in an agreeable position. On one hand hed have an existing deferred 
DB scheme of very considerable value. This would contain all the guarantees and benefits 
that such schemes normally bring which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension 
for life. Significant indexation guarantees also existed within BSPS2 and the scheme was still underpinned by the PPF. On the other hand, hed have also built up a reasonable DC 
scheme total over a number of years. And if Mr P ever found he needed some flexibility, then 
hed be able to use the latter, rather than transferring away from the former. 
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject. When asked, I think most people would like their 
loved ones to be taken care of when they die. Everyones circumstances are also different 
and here, Ive noted that Mr P didnt have any children and his wife was older than him.
However, the BSPS2 contained certain benefits payable to his spouse if Mr P died. The 
benefits included related to both pre-retirement and post-retirement. Mrs P might have been 
entitled to over 50% of Mr Ps pension if he pre-deceased her. I therefore think the value of 
these benefits were most likely underplayed because the spouses pension provided by the 
BSPS2 would have been useful to Mrs P as Ive seen no evidence of why shed need a lump 
sum instead. I think his wife would have found this ongoing annual pension a source of 
comfort and security. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
I think the adviser discussed with Mr P that hed be able to pass on the whole value of a 
personal pension, potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated. So, the lump sum death 
benefits on offer through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive 
feature to him. But I cant see there was a clear direction from Mr P specifying that hed be 
wanting to pass on benefits to anyone other than his wife, particularly as there were no 
children involved. Whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr P 
might have thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because 
of this, the priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
Mr P was still only 54 and in good health. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death 
benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the 
pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr P had lived a 
long life there could be very little left in his personal pension plan. However, Mr P could also 
have nominated a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his other DC schemes. 
At 54, a modest term insurance policy might also still have been affordable. So, if a lump 
sum legacy to Mrs P, rather than an annual pension, really was so important, this might have 
been a useful product if Mr P passed away first. In this scenario, as Mr Ps wife was older 
than him, if hed insured his life for say 15 years, this would have provided a potential lump 
sum legacy until Mrs P was almost in her nineties. Also, in this case because Mr P had 
opted to stay in a DB scheme instead of transferring, Mrs P would have also retained a 
guaranteed annual spouses pension for her whole life. To this end, Mr P already had some 
alternative options which could have negated the need to transfer away.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr P. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Ps situation. 
Control of funds
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr P had either the true capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr P was being offered the opportunity to transfer to 
the new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the 
original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. I accept that Mr P may have had an understanding of pensions and a reasonable grasp of 
wider financial matters. But theres no evidence he was an experienced money market 
investor. He had some other small DC pensions in addition to the BSPS. But Ive seen 
nothing showing the investment strategy for these pensions were anything other than off the 
shelf mixes of investments commonly found in most company DC schemes. I also think he 
would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing over £864,000 of his 
own transferred funds from his DB scheme to be onerous in the years ahead. This was a 
very large amount of money and what Ive seen tends to show Mr P would have required 
ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would cost him money which his DB 
scheme didnt require from him. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr P, like many employees of his former company, was concerned about his 
pension. His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme 
and BFGL said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and BFGL said he could have more control over his pension fund. So, I think its quite 
possible that Mr P was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the concerns 
he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it was BFGLs 
obligation to give Mr P an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests. 
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that BFGL 
should have reassured Mr P that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr P through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and it was still highly 
uncertain that hed be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of 
pension charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, 
the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think 
that these concerns should have led to BFGLs recommendation to Mr P to transfer out of 
the DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments 
BFGL recommended that Mr P invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr P and I 
dont think he would have insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had been 
given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in a DB scheme 
and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr P was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr P was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think BFGL ought to have advised him against 
transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason.I think Mr Ps circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to BSPS2 and 
retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. All the evidence pointed to him still 
being able to retire earlier than 65 if he felt he really needed to  there would have been an 
actuarial reduction involved, depending on his age at the time. He also had a number of 
smaller DC pensions and these supported that strategy in my view. 
I dont think it was in Mr Ps best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal 
pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2. I think it was clear to all 
parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. I don't think that it would have been in 
his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering 
the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. 
By opting into the BSPS2, Mr P would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. On this basis, I think BFGL should 
have advised Mr P to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr P would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that BFGL disclosed some of the 
risks of transferring to Mr P, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr P to transfer out, and I think Mr P relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr P would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against BFGLs advice as this pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the 
time. I think if BFGL had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that 
advice.
In light of the above, I think BFGL should compensate Mr P for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for BFGLs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr P would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice. Having considered all the circumstances compensation should 
be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's 
guidance. BFGL should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
BFGL must then undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating redress 
for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set 
out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
BFGL should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr P and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what BFGL based the inputs into the 
calculator on.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ps 
acceptance of my final decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, BFGL should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts BFGLs offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, BFGL may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Our investigator recommended that BFGL should pay Mr P for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr P in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
most of his retirement provision and it was a very large amount. In his situation I think the 
thought of losing material benefits would have impacted upon Mr P. So I agree the 
recommended payment of £300 for distress and inconvenience. BFGL should pay Mr P this 
amount in addition to the redress Ive set out above.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Bede 
Financial Group Limited to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £170,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Bede Financial Group Limited pays Mr P the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr P.
If Mr P accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Bede Financial 
Group Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman