DRN-2883002
The complaint
Mr W says Vanquis Bank Limited acted irresponsibly when providing him with a credit card 
in 2009. 
What happened
In January 2009 Mr W applied for a credit card with Vanquis. His application was approved 
with a limit of £250. The account defaulted in 2011 and was subsequently sold to a debt 
collection agency. 
Mr W complained to Vanquis in 2019 about the lending. He said at the point his application 
was granted he had many pay day loans, had defaulted on repayments and had numerous 
CCJs showing on his credit file. So he thought Vanquis acted irresponsibly in agreeing to 
this credit card application. 
Initially our investigator thought the complaint had been brought too late. However, another 
ombudsman subsequently concluded in a decision this was a complaint we could consider. 
The complaint was reviewed by a different investigator who noted that there was only very 
limited information from when the credit was agreed and Vanquis hadnt been able to say 
what checks took place before this was done. But looking at the available evidence she 
thought if reasonable and proportionate checks had been carried out the application would 
have been agreed. So she didnt think Vanquis had done anything wrong. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said the nature of this credit card meant it was only going to be 
marketed to consumers who were already in financial difficulties. He believed the evidence 
showed he was in a debt cycle at the time and the lenders of the payday loans hed taken 
out at the time had accepted their lending had been irresponsible. So I need to reach a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders have an obligation to lend responsibly. And though the rules on lending have 
changed over the years all the rules and guidance refer to any checks being reasonable and 
proportionate. Those checks will therefore vary depending on the type and amount of 
lending though our view is that they need to take into account a consumers personal 
circumstances. 
In this case Vanquis hasnt been able to say what checks were carried out because of the 
time that has passed. And given its now twelve years since that decision was taken I dont 
think its unreasonable it isnt able to provide further information on this. But that does mean 
the available evidence about its lending decision is now very limited. 
So like our investigator Ive thought about what reasonable and proportionate checks would 
have been and what those are likely to have shown if they were carried out. Mr W says that 
a credit card account like this would only be of interest to someone who was already in 
financial difficulties and it was therefore directed at people who already had a poor credit 
rating. I think its fair to say that Vanquis business model means it will often offer credit to 
individuals who might struggle to obtain that elsewhere. Given that it is likely to accept some 
applications that other lenders might decline on the basis of poor financial behaviour in the 
past. 
But the obligation to lend responsibly remains. Thinking about how that applies in this case 
Im mindful of the fact that while the credit card had a relatively high interest rate the credit 
limit was low at £250. And I can see that in his internet application for the credit Mr W said 
he owned his own property, his income was £40,000 and he was in a full time job with a well 
known and reputable employer. 
Mr W told us he had County Court Judgements (CCJs) against his name at the time. We 
asked him for further evidence of this but because of the passage of time he hasnt been 
able to provide anything more. I understand why that is but it does make it difficult for me to 
conclude these CCJs were in place at the time of his application and so are something that 
Vanquis should have taken into account as part of reasonable and proportionate checks on 
his application. Nor have I seen evidence of what Mr Ws credit file showed at the time.
Mr W has said at the point of application he had numerous active pay day loans. However, 
the evidence hes provided for one of the businesses involved shows these were taken out 
after he applied for this credit card. And while the evidence from a different payday lender 
indicates he had loans with it at the time of his application I dont think the fact he was 
making use of short term lending shows in itself this credit card was unaffordable for him. I 
also note that while the payday lender in question has accepted some of these loans were 
lent irresponsibly that isnt the case for those loans that coincided with his credit card 
application  and Mr W appears to have accepted this outcome. 
I accept the bank statement Mr W has provided does indicate he was engaged in some 
gambling activity. But Im not persuaded that as part of carrying out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on his credit card application Vanquis should have asked to see 
statements  given what Ive already said about the relatively low level of borrowing he was 
applying for and the other information it had about his financial situation. And I havent seen 
anything to show Mr W made it aware of any issue here. 
Overall, while I cant say what checks Vanquis carried out when Mr W applied for his credit 
card, based on the information that would have reasonably been obtained by appropriate 
checks at the time I cant say this lending was unaffordable for him. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman