DRN-3090277
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy about the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has handled 
their travel insurance claim.
All references to URV include its representatives and cost containment agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F bought a travel insurance policy underwritten by URV to cover a trip to the 
United States (US). 
Mrs F had to have emergency medical treatment whilst abroad in October 2019. She was in 
hospital for a number of days and then had to attend on a daily basis for antibiotic treatment. 
Mr and Mrs F made a claim to URV, but it only partially settled the invoices as it said the 
medical costs were excessive, and that it had made payment in line with US Congressional 
guidelines.
URV made part payment towards the following invoices:
1. Medical costs of $50,203.50  URV has paid $12,407.88
2. Medical costs of $2,099  URV has paid $346.07
3. Medical costs of $1,954.52  URV has paid $900.87
4. Medical costs of $1,145  URV has paid $903.53
5. Medical costs of $425.97  URV has paid $213.53
6. Medical costs of $3,658.15  URV has paid £1,508.91
Mr and Mrs F have been copied into correspondence from the debt collector. And have been 
told that if URV doesnt pay the outstanding amount, they will be liable. They have been 
worried about the effect this will have on any future travel and have cancelled trips back to 
the US for fear of getting arrested or not being treated in the hospital, if needed. 
URV offered to pay £300 as an apology for any distress caused and an additional £500 if Mr 
and Mrs F were willing to continue to support URV in denying any further payment to the 
debt collectors. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think URV had provided any clear 
evidence to show that the costs claimed were unreasonable or excessive. So she 
recommended that URV be given an opportunity to negotiate the costs to bring the matter to 
a conclusion. She also found £800 compensation was fair and reasonable for the trouble 
and upset caused to Mr and Mrs F as URV hadnt kept them updated and they were 
concerned about their future travel plans.
Mr and Mrs F replied to say they would accept £800 compensation but they wanted URV to 
settle the bill directly with the hospital. 
URV responded and in summary, made the following comments:
It has evidence of overcharging issues in the USA
It uses Medicare data as an objective benchmark
It has provided the hospitals data report to show the profit it has made  and it 
shows that the hospital has accepted lower payments in respect of some of its 
invoices, as much as 85% in some cases 
It has provided summaries of data which show the costs charged and the cost rate
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
As a matter of general legal principle, URV is bound to indemnify Mr and Mrs F against 
losses covered by the policy as and when the amount of their loss (here the amount of Mr 
and Mrs Fs liability to the healthcare provider) has been ascertained. That may be by 
agreement, by court judgment or by arbitration. So URV has a commercial interest in being 
able to take over the defence and settlement of such claims in Mr and Mrs Fs name. 
URVs policy terms say it can:
take over and deal with, in your name, the defence/settlement of any claim made 
under the policy.
In effect, this means URV has the right to take over the conduct of a claim  defending or 
settling it  in the name of Mr and Mrs F. But that isnt an unqualified right. 
Legally, in situations where URVs interests conflict with Mr and Mrs Fs, URV has a 
responsibility to act in good faith when it takes over the defence/settlement of a claim  
having regard to Mr and Mrs Fs interests as well as its own commercial interests. URV isnt 
entitled to act arbitrarily in the way it goes about declining to pay the full amount of the 
invoice and contesting the outstanding amount. In deciding whether  and how  to settle or 
defend claims against Mr and Mrs F, URV is required to base its decision on the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Fs individual case rather than on broader concerns about 
overcharging within the US healthcare industry. 
The applicable regulations lead to a similar conclusion.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its 
customers and between a customer and another client.
The relevant regulations also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which says an insurer must:
handle complaints promptly and fairly;provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress;
not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and 
settle complaints promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and 
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance 
on what the combination of Principles for Businesses (the Principles) and the detailed rules 
mean for providers and distributors of financial services. The RPPD explains that firms 
should consider the impact of their actions, or inactions, on the customer throughout the life 
cycle of the service being provided. 
I also find it appropriate to take into account what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time of the claim. This was for underwriters of travel insurance  and their 
agents - to engage diligently with healthcare providers to try to resolve disputes over medical 
bills by actively seeking a compromise or adjudication of their bills. That includes actively 
engaging in negotiation.
Ill now explain what this means for Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
URV has provided additional information and statistics which it believes shows overcharging 
issues in the USA. It shows that the hospital is accepting discounts of up to 85% across its 
entire patient population and it says it has paid approximately 25% of the charges the 
hospital is claiming. 
But I dont think this information demonstrates that this particular hospital is overcharging Mr 
and Mrs F in bad faith. Or that the charges were unjustified or disproportionate to what they 
might have been charged by another hospital in the same area. 
I havent been provided with any persuasive evidence to show that the US congressional 
guidelines are a valid or recognised benchmark for fair payment of medical treatment costs 
outside of the Medicare system.  And Ive also seen letters from the debt collectors to URV 
suggesting that they are open to discussing settlement. Ive seen no evidence that URV has 
responded to the debt collectors invitation or that it has engaged in any discussions to 
negotiate the bill. Based on the information URV has provided, this suggests a discount can 
be negotiated. So I dont see any reason why it shouldnt attempt to open negotiations. 
Ive considered whether URV has done enough to deal with Mr and Mrs Fs claim promptly 
and fairly. Ive fully considered the guidelines URV has referred to. But I havent seen that 
URV has used these for the basis of negotiations in Mr and Mrs Fs case.  
I can understand why URV doesnt want to pay exaggerated costs. And so I would have 
expected to see evidence that URV attempted to carry out cost containment negotiations. 
But there is no such evidence here. 
Alternatively, URV could have sought to have the proper amount of the bill ascertained by a 
dispute resolution service such as by mediation, arbitration or litigation. Again, there is no 
evidence that URV has taken any steps of that kind. And it is aware the costs it has paid are 
not acceptable to the hospital but it still appears to have considered the matter settled. 
Mr and Mrs F have cancelled a number of trips to the US as they are concerned that they 
wont be able to access treatment at the hospital they were treated at previously, if required, 
due to the outstanding bills. And it has also heard from the debt collector who has said that 
the hospital considers Mr and Mrs F liable for the outstanding amount. And that URV hasnt 
attempted to negotiate. In addition, Mr and Mrs F have said they havent been kept updated by URV. So I think URVs actions have had a significant impact on Mr and Mrs F and 
compensation of £800 is appropriate in all the circumstances of this case. 
The policy allows URV to take over and deal with the defence/settlement of any claim. But I 
expect it to do so in a fair and reasonable way. I must have regard to the law, the relevant 
industry rules and regulations, and good practice. URV has a duty to deal with claims 
promptly and fairly and to act with due skill, care and diligence, paying due regard to Mr and 
Mrs Fs interests and treating them fairly. I dont think it has done that in this case.
URV took a unilateral decision to part pay the invoices. I havent seen any evidence that 
URV has attempted to negotiate with the hospital or the debt collector.
Whilst nobody could suggest that negotiation will lead to a reasonable settlement being 
achieved in every case, in many cases it may do so; and Ive seen nothing to suggest that it 
couldnt have been productive in this case. Before negotiation is abandoned in a case like 
this, I would normally expect to see an insurer explain and justify its position by reference to 
the particular items in dispute, take on board any response it receives and advance 
arguments to address the particular issues in dispute to try to persuade the healthcare 
provider to accept the sum being offered, or reach a mutually acceptable compromise.
URV doesnt have the absolute right to partially settle or defend a case in accordance with 
its own practices or interests  it still must act fairly and reasonably when doing so  and 
must have regard to the interests of the policyholder.
I find the fact that URV made no attempt to negotiate with the hospital or its agent and no 
other attempt to have the amount of debt ascertained by any form of dispute resolution 
process, contrary to both the regulatory guidance and good industry practice.
URV needs to act fairly in each individual case. It also has a duty to fairly manage any 
conflicts between its own interests and those of Mr and Mrs F. I dont think it has had due 
regard to Mr and Mrs Fs interests here. And I think it has unreasonably put its own 
commercial interests above theirs without considering their specific circumstances. I dont 
think URV has considered the impact of its actions on Mr and Mrs F, as it is required to do. 
Putting things right
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant the 
ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which in this case is 
URV. 
DISP 3.7.11R also provides that a direction may require the respondent, here URV, to take 
such steps in relation to the complaint as the ombudsman considers just and appropriate 
whether or not a court could order those steps to be taken. 
Whilst I have seriously considered directing URV to pay the hospital bill in full, so as to bring 
the matter to a conclusion, I am conscious that the bill is a sizeable one and that it may be 
that URV has grounds for obtaining a significant reduction.
On balance, I dont think that the stage has yet been reached in URVs handling of this claim 
where I should direct it to pay this bill in full. I consider that it is fair and reasonable to give 
URV a further opportunity to handle the negotiation or ascertainment of the debt more 
appropriately than it has so far in order to fix and pay Mr and Mrs Fs liability. So I intend to 
limit my award in respect of URVs mishandling of the matter up to the present date to 
monetary redress. Im satisfied that compensation is due for the worry that this matter has caused Mr and Mrs 
F. I think the sum of £800 fairly compensates them for the trouble and upset caused to them 
by URVs handling of the claim so far  that is for its conduct up until the date of this 
decision. I dont think this compensation should have any conditions attached to it, as 
suggested by URV. 
However, URVs duties in relation to its handling of Mr and Mrs Fs claim dont end with this 
decision, as the matter of the outstanding bills remains live. The hospital will doubtless 
continue to seek payment of its bill and it remains URVs responsibility to take active steps to 
resolve this matter quickly and in a manner that has due regard to Mr and Mrs Fs interests 
and treats them fairly. In the interests of all concerned, I urge URV to take its continuing 
duties to Mr and Mrs F very seriously. 
Because URVs duties continue, the manner in which it handles the claim hereafter may give 
Mr and Mrs F grounds for a further complaint to this service. 
In particular, if after the date of this decision URV doesnt take active steps to ascertain the 
amount of the debts and discharge any outstanding bills in a fair and reasonable manner, 
such future unreasonable conduct is very likely to result in further worry for Mr and Mrs F 
and in a further complaint to this Service. (Any such further complaint would have to be 
based upon URVs conduct of the claim after the date of this decision, as opposed to during 
the period that I have considered.) I hope that this will not occur, as the intention behind my 
decision is to give it another chance to prosecute its settlement or defence of the debts 
diligently. If there are further failings, URV may be at heightened risk (amongst other things) 
of receiving a direction to pay the bills in full. But that would be a matter for a different 
ombudsman to decide in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. Within 28 days from the date on 
which we tell it that Mr and Mrs F accept my final decision, I direct Union Reiseversicherung 
AG to pay Mr and Mrs F £800 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman