DRN-4215855
The complaint
Mr A complains that the Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) incorrectly categorised a 
transaction on his credit report.
What happened
Mr A says that he noticed his credit file was reporting a cash withdrawal on his Halifax credit 
card. In fact, he says, the transaction was a £0.25 charge hed incurred on a payment hed 
made. Mr A adds that this has caused his credit rating to go down.
Halifax says the transaction in question was for online trading which is classed as a cash 
transaction, as per a communication that was sent to Mr A in July 2021. As such, it says, the 
categorisation was correct, but it refunded associated charges as a goodwill gesture. Halifax 
cancelled future payments to the company and explained that Mr A can add a note to his 
credit file to clarify what happened.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Halifax acted within the terms and conditions of Mr As account.
Mr A responded to say, in summary, that Halifax, had, in effect, redefined the English 
language as his transaction did not involve cash and, therefore, it is unreasonable to 
categorise it as a cash withdrawal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regard to the transaction in question, I am satisfied that it was for online trading. 
Although, as Mr A says, this was not a cash transaction, it falls under the category of Cash 
Equivalent within Halifaxs terms and conditions which say:
Using your available credit limit to make cash-related or cash-substitute transactions 
including:
online trading such as share dealing or investments
This type of transaction also attracts a fee, but I note that Halifax has refunded that which I 
find to be fair and reasonable.
So, although I understand Mr As frustration, I cant conclude Halifax has done anything 
wrong and it is not obliged to amend Mr As credit file.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman