DRN-3301735
The complaint
Mr C complains about the inspection process and charges applied after he returned a car he 
had been hiring through a finance agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS).
What happened
Mr C entered into a hire agreement with MBFS and was provided with a new car in April 
2018. 
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr C responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
At the end of the agreement the car was inspected at his home by a suitably trained agent. 
As the agent arrived late Mr C wasnt able to be present during the inspection. So, Mr C was 
therefore upset to discover the agent had recorded on the report that he hadnt agreed with 
the inspectors view of the condition of the car.  
MBFS subsequently sent Mr C a bill for over £1,400 that they said was necessary to 
refurbish the damage that had been noted during a second inspection. They said theyd 
advised Mr C there would be a second inspection when they emailed him in May 2021. 
MBFS also said theyd reminded Mr C of the vehicle return standards six months before his 
agreement with them ended.
When Mr C complained MBFS reduced that bill as they accepted damages to six other areas 
of the car werent clearly evidenced in the first inspection. They said there was damage to 
three alloy wheels that was in excess of fair wear and tear and they levied a charge of £110 
for each wheel. They also asked Mr C to pay a charge for seven extra rental days, but they 
subsequently removed this charge as well.
Mr C was dissatisfied with MBFSs response. He referred his complaint to this service and 
our investigator provided his opinion.
He reviewed the inspectors photographs of the damage to the three alloy wheels and 
thought that in each case the damage was in excess of the industry guidelines on fair wear 
and tear that are provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). 
He wasnt persuaded that MBFS had done anything else wrong.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with the investigators view, so he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman. He explained that the main reason for his complaint was in connection with the 
procedure that MBFS adopted regarding recharging. He said they were adopting an immoral 
and scatter gun approach to attempt to extract as much as they could from consumers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr C acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr C responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The damage charges that remain
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage to the three alloys that are provided in the 
inspection report. The investigator has set out the standard required under the BVRLA 
guidance correctly, that says that scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel 
rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable. I think, the damage on all three alloys is in excess 
of that standard and is therefore chargeable.
The process
I understand Mr Cs frustration here as the first inspection revealed no damage charges and 
the subsequent inspection identified in excess of £1,400 of damage.
Its for MBFS to decide their processes and its for them to decide how they identify any 
excess wear and tear that could be chargeable under the agreement.
They explained to Mr C in May 2021 that they would be completing two inspections on the 
car. 
MBFS arent members of the BVRLA, the organisation that provide the industry guidelines 
on what is considered fair wear and tear when a car is returned at the end of a lease. But I 
think it is reasonable to expect MBFS to be mindful of that industry guidance.
The BVRLA guidance explains that whilst some companies may provide a condition report 
on collection of the car, others may complete the final inspection off site.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for MBFS to complete a further and final inspection.
The BVRLA guidance recommends that drivers (or nominated representatives) are present 
when vehicles are collected. That wasnt the case here as the first inspection was delayed 
and Mr C couldnt therefore attend. 
MBFS agreed to reduce the final invoice by £75 as they accepted they had deprived Mr C of 
the opportunity to attend the inspection. I think that was fair in the circumstances.
Mr C thinks MBFS have made charges they couldnt substantiate in an attempt to extract 
money from him.
I understand there has been a significant reduction in the bill here and that MBFS have 
waived charges across six areas. Its clearly disappointing that those charges were ever levied but, on the other hand, I can see MBFS have been prepared to accept they werent 
well evidenced and to waive them. 
The inspections were completed by third party agents who were trained to inspect to BVRLA 
standards. Whilst the extent of the damage may not have been evidenced in the reports that 
were advanced I dont think it would be fair to suggest the evidence was fabricated. The 
photographic evidence suggests there was damage, but the extent of that damage could not 
be demonstrated to be outside of the fair wear and tear guidance and/or present during the 
first inspection. In those circumstances I think MBFS were fair.
Mr C was upset that the inspector who collected the car recorded incorrect information about 
him not accepting the inspectors report. I can understand why Mr C would have been 
unhappy about that, but I dont think it disadvantaged him in any way and I dont therefore 
think it would be fair to ask MBFS to take any action about it.
I can see that Mr C thought it was unfair for MBFS to apply the same standard for the 
condition of a car returned with high mileage and longer lease than for a newer car with a 
lower return mileage. The BVRLA industry guidance doesnt distinguish here but I can see 
that MBFS have explained that they do take that into account and may accept vehicles back 
without charge that have slightly more wear. Ive explained that the damage to all three 
alloys was outside of the industry guidance, so Im not persuaded MBFS needed to take any 
further action in that respect.
And, overall, I think MBFS have done enough to put matters right for Mr C.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman