DRN-3676019
The complaint
Mr K complains that GATE CAPITAL GROUP LTD (Gate Capital) were responsible for 
advising him to switch two personal pensions into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) 
and invest in funds managed on a discretionary basis by Beaufort Securities. At the time 
Gate Capital were trading as Plutus Group.
What happened
Mr K had two personal pensions. Mr K explains that he wanted to withdraw his whole 
pension pot. 
Mr K explains that he was advised by Plutus Asset Management that he would be unable to 
take his pensions in that way from the existing personal pension plans. He says Plutus 
recommended he transfer those personal pensions to a Beaufort SIPP. As Gate Capital are 
responsible for the activities done in the name of Plutus Asset Management at that time, I 
will simply refer to Gate Capital from this point to avoid confusion.
In August 2015 a SIPP application form was submitted. That form named an independent 
financial adviser (IFA) from Gate Capital. It authorised a 3% initial adviser charge and 1% 
ongoing advice charge.
By October 2015 both of Mr Ks personal pensions were transferred to the SIPP. He 
received a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS) of 25% of the transferred value tax 
free. The remaining pension fund  around £95,000  was invested via a discretionary fund 
manager (DFM).
Mr K requested the remaining pension be paid out to him in a lump sum payment in 
June 2016. He was unable to access the full fund value however, as some of the 
investments that had been selected were illiquid. He received an income payment of 
£73,547 from his SIPP (£48,006 after tax).
Mr K was unable to access the remaining funds in his SIPP. 
Mr K complained to Gate Capital about the unsuitable advice hed received regarding his 
pension switch.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and decided that Mr K had been given 
unsuitable advice. Gate Capital didnt accept this view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. I issued a provisional decision to allow both parties to respond to my thoughts if 
necessary.
In my provisional decision I said
Im aware that this is a case where we have been unable to obtain all of the evidence that I 
would normally expect to see. Neither Gate Capital nor Mr K have been able to provide us 
with any written evidence of the advice that led to the transfer of the pensions in 2015. Im 
satisfied however, that all reasonable efforts have been made to obtain the information. 
Where information is missing, or incomplete, I have to decide what most likely happened on 
a balance of probabilities.
In deciding whether or not Gate Capital have done anything wrong I have considered, 
amongst other things, the regulatory obligations at the time of the advice. The Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook includes its Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). 
Of specific relevance is COBS 9.2  Assessing Suitability. The FCA also publish high level 
principles for the conduct of regulated businesses, that are explained in the handbook under 
PRIN 2.1. Of particular relevance in this case are Principle 2  conducting business with 
skill, care and diligence  and Principle 6  paying due regard to customer interests and 
treating them fairly.
Did Gate Capital give Mr K advice?
Ive considered this question as Mr K has no written record of the advice. And Gate Capital 
similarly explain that they have no record of it. So I have looked to other evidence from the 
time to determine what was most likely to have happened.
We have been provided with a copy of the SIPP application form that was signed by Mr K on 
20 August 2015. It set out the details for the financial adviser. It provided the name of the 
adviser concerned and the company as Plutus Asset Management. It was signed by the 
adviser and established that 3% of the transfer value would be paid as a fee. This was sent 
under a covering letter from Plutus asset management dated 4 September 2015, including 
the application form and verification of ID. 
I think the fact that Mr K and Plutus adviser were signing to agree to a 3% advice charge is 
evidence that advice had indeed been provided to Mr K in some form prior to setting up the 
SIPP. Both personal pensions were listed on the application under the transferring scheme 
details.
I have seen a letter of 16 June 2016 that was sent from Plutus Asset Management to the 
SIPP administrators. It included Mr Ks application to withdraw all remaining funds held in his 
SIPP. Which I think was evidence that Plutus were still acting as Mr Ks financial adviser at 
that time. Which, given the previous application and ongoing adviser fee, was not surprising. 
From this I conclude that Gate Capital were the business responsible for the transfer and 
investment advice over the period concerned. 
What advice was Mr K given?
In this instance, the only evidence available is Mr Ks recollection of the advice and what 
actually happened with his pension. Beaufort Securities are no longer available to provide 
any explanation. Mr K doesnt remember having received written advice. 
After the payment of his PCLS, the remaining fund was placed with a DFM. Mr K has 
explained he had limited investment knowledge. I dont think its likely that Mr K would have 
appointment this DFM without advice. Our service has seen a number of cases where Gate 
Capital advised clients to invest through the DFM in question. And I think, on balance of 
probabilities, Gate Capital are responsible for the advice given to Mr K, that led to him being 
invested in the way that he was.
Was the advice suitable?
In determining whether Mr K was given suitable advice Ive considered his likely objectives 
at the time.Mr K has provided his testimony in which he explains that he wanted to simply withdraw his 
entire pension fund. There are tax implications of such an action, which make it quite an 
unusual thing to choose to do. But Mr K has provided a convincing explanation. He has 
explained that his future income would be such that he would be paying higher rate tax 
anyway. So there would have been no benefit in spreading the pension income through 
drawdown. He said hed had health concerns, so didnt want the money sitting there when 
he could be enjoying it. He had no concerns about his future income as he expected to 
continue receiving enough income in the future from the company he remained a director of. 
He was 63 years of age, so at a stage of his life where I think its likely he was deciding what 
to do with these pensions.
Ive also considered Mr Ks actions around that time. He took his maximum PCLS 
immediately after receiving the second transfer. And within eight months had contacted his 
adviser about taking the remainder of his pension out. These events happened shortly after 
pension freedoms had been introduced. Which made this option possible for Mr K. But his 
former personal pension plans may not have allowed him to access his pension in that way 
at the time. So, in the absence of any documented fact find from Gate Capital at the time, I 
think that its more likely than not, that it was always Mr Ks objective to access his entire 
pension pot in the way he tried to do. And that switching to a SIPP was most likely required 
for that to happen.
In order to have provided Mr K with suitable advice, Gate Capital would have been required 
to understand his circumstances and objectives (COBS 9.2). It would normally result in a 
fact-find document being produced, from which a recommendation would follow. In the 
absence of such a document, I cant say that it was done. Had it been done though, I think it 
would more likely than not have shown that Mr K: had little investment experience; had no 
investment term over which to make an investment in anything other than immediately liquid 
investments; and had no requirement to use this pension as income in the future. 
Because of his objectives, any advice that left Mr K in a position where he was unable to 
draw immediate income from his SIPP or that exposed him to anything other than a low level 
of investment risk would have been unsuitable. So I cant see how any recommendation to 
invest through a DFM could have been appropriate for Mr Ks objectives. Gate Capital ought 
to have understood that Mr K was never going to have funds in the SIPP for a long enough 
period to warrant the expense or complication of a DFM. Based on his objectives, there was 
no reason to do anything with the residual fund other than leave it as a cash deposit to be 
taken in the way Mr K says he intended.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr K acknowledged my provisional decision, but offered no further evidence or comment.
Gate Capital responded to my provisional decision disagreeing with my proposal for putting 
things right. It considered that the investment held in the SIPP would not have been illiquid 
the whole time and that the proposed compensation didnt account for investment growth 
Mr K may have had by not having taken his income payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive been provided no further information to consider in this case. Having considered 
everything a final time my final decision is the same as my provisional finding. For the same 
reasons Ive referred to above, I still think that Mr K was given unsuitable advice regarding 
his pension transfer by Gate Capital. 
Ive considered Gate Capitals response but still think that the redress I suggested is a fair 
way to put Mr K, as close as possible, into the position hed have been but for the mistake. In 
my proposal I allowed for the actual value of his SIPP, at the date that Mr K accepts my final 
decision, to offset the loss which will account for any potential growth his SIPP may have 
received by remaining invested. This will ensure that Mr K is not over compensated. This is 
complicated by the fact that the investment may still be illiquid, so I proposed a way to 
address that as well.
Gate Capital referred to a transaction summary for Mr Ks SIPP that it says means that the 
fund was not always illiquid. But this was information that wed already been provided. Ive 
also seen a copy of a SIPP statement from September 2017 showing that two of the 
investments had failed and had no value. And the third remaining fund indicated that £7,527 
was held in Carduus PLC 6.25% unsecured bonds. This was an unregulated investment in 
property. It was described as a form of bond intended to pay out in 2020. It was not an 
investment that could readily be realised for a number of years. The fact that a payment may 
have been received from the investment manager after the income was taken didnt mean 
that the remaining investment could readily be realised. In fact, issues with that investment 
subsequently prevented trading on it and it likely has little or no current value.
In my proposed redress I included an element of interest which I explained was to 
compensate Mr K for the loss of his income at the time he wanted it. It is not intended to 
compensate him for any loss of returns on the SIPP, which I agree wouldnt have otherwise 
been accrued.
For the reasons Ive outlined above, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. I think he was given 
unsuitable advice by Gate Capital. And the consequence of that meant he was unable to 
access his pension benefits when he intended. And its more likely than not that it prevented 
him from doing so in a reasonable time frame, or at all.
Putting things right
Having determined that Gate Capital have done something wrong I need to decide what it 
should do to put Mr K as close as possible to the position hed have been but for that 
mistake. 
But for the unsuitable advice, I dont think that Mr K would have invested his pension fund 
with the DFM. His residual fund after his PCLS of £31,649 was £94,946. Assuming that Mr K 
had retained that fund in cash to withdraw soon afterwards, he would have been able to 
access that sum in income when he sent his application to withdraw his entire pension on 
16 June 2016. 
It took until 7 July 2016 for £73,547 to be transferred from the investment manager. Which 
was then processed as an income payment on 31 August 2016. The remaining value in the 
SIPP investment account couldnt be released due to its being held in illiquid investments. 
So I think that the impact of Gate Capitals mistake was to prevent Mr K from being able to 
take the full pension as income and closing his SIPP. 
Gate Capital should compensate Mr K as follows:
Mr Ks lost income from 31 August 2016 is the difference between the residual pension after he took his PCLS (£94,946), and the gross income benefit he received 
from the SIPP on 31 August 2016 (£73,547). Which was a gross lost income of 
£21,399.
The gross lost income would have been subject to income tax. Mr K has indicated 
that his marginal rate of tax would have been 40%. So Gate Capital should deduct 
40% to reflect the effect of that tax, to give the notional net lost income which should 
be paid to Mr K as compensation.
Mr K has been deprived of the use of that notional net lost income since 31 August 
2016. So Gate Capital should add interest to that compensation payment, to reflect 
the fact that Mr K was deprived of the use of the income that he should have had. In 
line with our services approach, Gate Capital should pay Mr K 8% simple interest on 
the notional net lost income from 31 August 2016 until the date of settlement. 
If Gate Capital considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also 
give a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
If Mr Ks SIPP still has an actual value, I think its fair for Gate Capital to account for 
that in its compensation. Mr K will need to pay tax to access that remaining pension 
at his marginal rate of 40% (as above). So Gate Capital can deduct 60% of the actual 
value from the compensation that it pays. Unless, at the date of Mr K accepting my 
final decision, the remaining investment in the SIPP is still illiquid (meaning it cannot 
be readily sold on the open market). In that case it may be difficult to find the actual 
value. So Gate Capital should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should similarly 
be adjusted to allow for the effect of tax, and can instead be deducted from the 
compensation and the balance paid to Mr K.
If Gate Capital is unable to purchase the illiquid investment the actual value of the 
SIPP should be assumed to be nil. Gate Capital may wish to require that Mr K 
provides an undertaking to pay any amount he receives from that investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred 
on drawing the benefit from the SIPP. Gate Capital will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
If the SIPP still exists because of the illiquid investment, for it to be closed and further 
SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP.
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Gate Capital taking over the 
investment. But I dont know how long that will take. Third parties are involved, and 
we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide certainty to all parties, I 
think its fair that Gate Capital pay Mr K an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years 
worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should provide a 
reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct GATE CAPITAL GROUP LTD to compensate Mr K in 
the manner I have set out in Putting Things Right above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman