DRN-3681510
The complaint
Mr P, on behalf of R, complains that Advanced Payments Solutions Limited (trading as 
Cashplus) wont refund unauthorised transactions made in June 2021. 
What happened
Mr P said he was called by someone he believed to be from Cashplus in June 2021 about 
irregularities on his account, including past transactions he didnt recognise. He said the 
caller knew his personal and security information. And he said he was told his personal 
account had been compromised, so was asked to transfer all the money, including any 
overdraft, into his business account to protect it  so he did. He was also told to change the 
PIN on both accounts.
Mr P said he was told hed receive a One Time Passcode (OTP) and that he should provide 
this to the Cashplus adviser. He also said he was told his accounts would be restricted 
while an investigation took place and that hed receive a call back at a later date. 
But payments were then made from the business account which Mr P didnt recognise. Mr P 
reported four payments  made to three recipients  as fraudulent. Three of these were 
made on 7 June 2021 for £3,900, £3,950 and £750. The fourth payment was on 11 June 
2021 for £670. This final payment has already been refunded.
Cashplus said it had been unable to recover the funds as the recipient account had no funds 
remaining. And it wouldnt be refunding Mr P as hed provided the fraudster with his OTP, 
which is against Cashpluss terms and conditions  it said it had sent an email to raise 
awareness about this in February 2021. 
Our investigator considered this case. They concluded the payments were unauthorised as 
the payments were made by the fraudster, rather than Mr P. And that, while Mr P provided 
his OTP, he thought he was speaking with Cashplus and protecting his account. So they 
didnt think he acted with gross negligence. 
Cashplus disagreed. It said that Mr P should be liable as hed acted with gross negligence 
when choosing to share an OTP despite the SMS saying not to share it with anyone. 
Our investigator explained that the scammer called from a number matching that of 
Cashplus, and that they knew Mr Ps address and account numbers. So they could 
understand why Mr P believed he was speaking to Cashplus and maintained their stance. 
As Cashplus still disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 

What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) R isnt liable for 
payments it didnt authorise unless Mr P  acting on Rs behalf  failed with intent or 
gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account or keep the account 
security details safe. 
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Mr P didnt complete all the steps required to 
make payments. Nor has it been suggested that Mr P consented to someone else 
doing so. Instead it seems the fraudster made the payments using information they 
convinced Mr P to share by falsely saying the account had been compromised. So, 
Im persuaded that the disputed transactions were unauthorised. 
I dont find that Mr P failed with intent to keep the security credentials safe  he 
believed the information provided was necessary to protect his accounts. 
I also dont find that Mr P failed with gross negligence. The number the scammer 
called from matched that of Cashplus with whom hed spoken previously, suggesting 
the genuine number had been spoofed. And the caller already had some information 
about Mr P, including his address and account numbers. So I can see how Mr P 
would have been misled into trusting it was his bank he was talking to. 
Cashplus believes that sharing his OTP despite the SMS saying not to do so 
amounts to gross negligence. But, in the moment, it seems Mr P was trying to secure 
his account and I can understand why this warning would have been missed, 
particularly when being told the steps being taken were necessary to protect against 
fraud. I also note, from the evidence provided, the example SMS did warn the 
recipient not to share it, but it didnt give any indication that a payment was being 
made. So I dont think Mr P seriously disregarded an obvious risk.
I note Cashplus referred to an email sent to customers to educate them on scam 
risks. But I maintain my stance that Mr P wasnt grossly negligent. I recognise that 
the purpose of the warnings sent was to help people to spot signs of a scam. But, at 
the time of the call, Mr P was tricked into thinking his account was at risk  and as far 
as he was concerned, his bank was providing directions to stop him from losing his 
money to fraud. Emails sent some three or four months earlier were unlikely to have 
been at the forefront of his mind.  
So, in all, I dont think Mr Ps actions fell so far below what a reasonable person 
would have done that it amounts to gross negligence. So, I conclude that R isnt 
liable for the transactions. Cashplus needs to put things right by refunding the 
remaining loss from the unauthorised transactions, alongside any associated 
charges, and interest to compensate R for the loss of use of those funds. I also agree 
with the investigator that compensation of £100 fairly reflects the failure of Cashplus 
to refund this sooner. 
Putting things right
To resolve Rs complaint, Cashplus should:
Refund the remaining three unauthorised transactions as well as any associated 
interest or charges;
Add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of loss to the date of settlement 
(less any lawfully deductible tax);Pay R £100 in compensation for the delay in refunding this sooner.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint against Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading 
as Cashplus) should be upheld. I require it to settle this complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman