DRN-3899600
The complaint
Mr W believes Phoenix Life Assurance Ltd (Phoenix) failed to properly reinstate funds into 
his occupational pension scheme (OPS), following the sale of his personal pension in 1992 
having been reviewed as part of the Pensions Review in 1997.   
What happened
Mr W joined the OPS of his previous employer in August 1988. In 1991, he was approached 
by Phoenix who advised him to stop contributing into his OPS, and instead set up a private 
pension (PP) with them. He accepted this advice and stopped paying into his OPS in March 
1991. However, Mr W re-joined his OPS in November 1995 and remained in it until he 
changed employment in May 2002.
The sale of Mr Ws PP by Phoenix was reviewed by them in 1997 as part of the Industry-
wide pensions review, and they concluded it had been mis-sold to him. Phoenix agreed to 
take steps to reinstate Mr W back into his OPS  in other words to put Mr W back into the 
exact position he would have been in (as much as possible) had he stayed in his OPS. And 
as part of the pension review resolution, Phoenix also provided Mr W with a pension 
guarantee, which set out that obligation. 
Phoenix liaised with the Trustees of the OPS (the Trustees) to find out how much they 
needed to pay to reinstate Mr W into the OPS. The Trustees advised Phoenix in 2002 that 
the cost of reinstatement to the OPS was £5,325.95. 
Phoenix then considered what Mr W had paid to their PP between April 1991 and November 
1995 (the reinstatement period). They calculated Mr W had paid total premiums of 
£5,364.18, and that hed paid £1,174.67 in additional National Insurance (NI) premiums  
had he stayed in the OPS during the reinstatement period, hed have benefitted by paying 
smaller contracted-out rates. As these were the actual amounts paid in the reinstatement 
period, and the Trustees reinstatement figure was based on the calculation date in 
November 2002, they were revalued to November 2002 rates, to allow accurate like-for-like 
calculations to be undertaken  this amounted to £11,296.08. 
From this, they deducted the amount equating to what Mr W would have paid if hed stayed 
in the OPS for the reinstatement period and revalued this too  this amounted £4,202.99, 
meaning Mr W had paid £7,093.09 more in that period (recalculated at 2002 rates) than he 
would have done had he remained in the OPS.
It wasnt possible for Phoenix to pay this extra amount back into Mr Ws OPS plan  the 
amount paid was limited to the amount needed to place Mr W back in the position he would 
have been in had he not left the plan during the reinstatement period (£5,325.95  as 
above). So, the excess amount was paid to the Trustees to invest in a separate AVC, which 
would be used to provide an extra pension at retirement. Phoenix sent a cheque to the 
Trustees for £12,436.16 in December 2002 - £5,325.95 (the cost to reinstate into the OPS), 
plus £7,093.09 (the extra amounts Mr W had paid), plus a small amount of interest.
Some years later Mr W became aware the reinstatement hadnt been carried out correctly. 
Hed approached the Trustees for a retirement quote, and in their response, theyd advised 
Mr W amounts relating to his Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) hadnt been reinstated in 
2002. Mr W then approached Phoenix to ask why this was and raised a complaint. 
There followed some exchanges between Phoenix, the OPS Trustees and Mr W, to 
understand whether the 2002 reinstatement figure was correct. Phoenix then responded to 
Mr Ws complaint, explaining the figure theyd used for reinstatement had been provided by 
the OPS Trustees. But they agreed theyd missed some of the text contained within the 2002 
reinstatement letter that mentioned GMP (it was on another page, after the reinstatement 
figure was listed). They advised theyd made further enquiries with the OPS about this, and 
theyd make any further payment to the OPS, as necessary, once further information was 
received from the Trustees. And Phoenix offered to pay Mr W £200 as an apology for any 
trouble and upset caused. 
Unhappy that he was still no closer to establishing the extent of any shortfall within his OPS, 
Mr W brought his complaint to this organisation. After making further enquiries with Phoenix, 
and whilst acknowledging that Phoenix had made mistakes, our investigator essentially 
concluded that Phoenix had taken the necessary steps to try and resolve the issues that 
caused Mr Ws complaint. She felt Phoenix had made enquiries with the OPS Trustees and 
relied on the information theyd provided. And, that Mr W continued to benefit from the 
pensions guarantee. She also said the calculations needed to work out the reinstatement 
cost, and GMP/missing contributions, was complex  these would have been undertaken by 
actuaries, and if Mr W was unhappy with these he could consider engaging his own actuary 
to review them. But she felt Mr W had experienced considerable stress and anxiety since 
2017 when he became aware of the reinstatement/GMP issues. She felt that Phoenix should 
pay Mr W an extra £500 to reflect the trouble and upset their actions have caused. 
Mr W didnt think this provided a fair outcome and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by 
an Ombudsman. He said he wont be arranging for any independent checks of Phoenixs 
calculations to be done, because he believes hes never been reinstated. He also remains 
unhappy with certain elements of the AVC calculations. He asked that we explain what 
certain figures, variously provided by Phoenix, represent, and clarify the situation regarding 
his pension death benefits. Mr W also remained confused by what he felt were inconsistent 
and contradictory messages hed received from Phoenix concerning what compensation 
theyd paid as part of the reinstatement. 
The case was passed to me to undertake a further review, in which I broadly agreed with our 
Investigators conclusion, but with altered proposed redress. So, I issued a Provisional 
Decision (PD), inviting responses, in which I said as follows: 
My Provisional Decision
I want to begin by making clear Im only considering a complaint against Phoenix here. I say 
this because Mr W has expressed dissatisfaction with the OPS/Trustees too, and Im aware 
he has instigated separate complaints (via The Pensions Ombudsman) in relation to his 
concerns with them. This means I wont be commenting on questions Mr W has raised about 
his OPS death or spousal benefits. And accordingly, whilst I refer to the OPS/Trustees in this 
Decision, nothing I say should be taken as a criticism of them, or an opinion regarding what 
they have done or not done. 
Turning to this complaint against Phoenix, theyve fully accepted making a mistake in 2002 
by not properly reading the reinstatement letter they received from the Trustees. This point 
isnt in dispute, so I dont need to make a finding on that issue here. Instead, I will only focus on the actions Phoenix have taken  and I repeat Phoenix only, and not the OPS/Trustees - 
to reinstate Mr W to his OPS. 
I also want to reassure Mr W Ive read all of the documents hes sent us  hes sent many 
emails raising concerns about Phoenixs calculations. But in this decision, I wont be 
responding to every one of these  no discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ill focus only 
on what I consider the key elements of Mr Ws Phoenix complaint  essentially did they do 
enough, or what I think they should have done once becoming aware of the reinstatement 
oversight, to rectify that issue. And having considered the evidence, broadly speaking I think 
Phoenix have taken reasonable steps to rectify their mistake. Ill explain why.  
But I think its important to first make clear what I think Phoenixs obligations were here. 
They knew theyd made a mistake. And to rectify that, its clear theyd need information from 
the OPS/Trustees that only they could provide. Phoenix were reliant on the OPS telling them 
how much they needed to pay them  only the OPS could properly calculate those amounts. 
That principle applied in 2002 and remained the same in 2017 and indeed now. 
So, on finding out in 2017 theyd failed to read all of the reinstatement documentation, Id 
have expected Phoenix to contact the OPS Trustees, to find out what else they needed to do 
(or more precisely, how much to pay, if anything) to ensure Mr Ws OPS properly reflects the 
missing GMP from the reinstatement period. And, its clear Phoenix did do this. 
But, looking at the various recent exchanges that have taken place, I can understand if Mr W 
remained confused about what the current situation is. I think, at times, Mr W has received 
some inconsistent messages regarding whether his OPS has been fully reinstated. For 
instance, in October 2020, Phoenix told Mr W:
"It has come to our attention that the cost paid by us did not cover reinstating your 
GMP for the above period and also made no allowance for the contributions that you 
could have paid. We are liaising with [X] and are trying to rectify it for you. Hopefully 
they will provide us a cost which we can pay in order to restore all your service"
Then the OPS Trustees told Mr W there is no shortfall  and that the amount Phoenix paid in 
2002 was sufficient to reinstate Mr W into his OPS (even though it was acknowledged there 
was no GMP for the reinstatement period). They also said, in December 2020:
"In respect of your GMP, we agreed that no charge is to be made. This reflects the 
reconciliation work with HMRC to ensure that the GMP's held are correct. As a result, 
the pension in respect of the reinstatement period is all to be regarded as excess 
over GMP and will receive the relevant pension increases once in payment"
But in January 2021, Phoenix wrote to Mr W and said they were waiting for confirmation 
(from the OPS) that Mr W had been put in:
EXACTLY [their emphasis] the same position you would have been in had we not 
sold you a personal pension" AND "We have not paid the employee contributions to 
your scheme and believe this should have been included in the calculation of the 
reinstatement cost"
And in April 2022, they reconfirmed that position by saying:
We have only reinstated you on a contracted in basis and therefore you do not have 
any GMP in your company period for [the reinstatement period]..Once you retire from 
your company scheme, we will re-visit our calculations and base them on the actual benefits that you will receive from your company pension scheme. There may or may 
not be a loss. So in the meantime, your Benefit Guarantee will remain in force
I appreciate Mr W is unhappy that he doesnt have certainty at the moment, and hes brought 
his complaint to us to try and get that certainty. He thinks Phoenix (and the OPS) is to blame 
for this. But having considered Phoenixs obligations here, I cant reasonably ask them to do 
any more than they have done or have offered to continue doing. They are reliant on 
receiving information from the OPS Trustees about whether the missing 2002 GMP 
calculation has left a shortfall in his pension. The Trustees said there isnt one  Phoenix 
have no control over that statement or conclusion. 
I appreciate too that Mr W has provided suggested shortfall figures. But I cant fairly ask 
Phoenix to make a payment based on these. Calculations regarding pension reinstatement 
such as here are extremely complex, and usually undertaken by expert actuaries employed 
by the pension firms. And the Trustees have said (presumably after some sort of actuarial 
involvement) there isnt a shortfall. Furthermore, we do not employ actuaries that would be 
able to undertake these calculations. 
But Phoenix have still said theyd wait until there is a crystallising event (i.e. retirement), 
and then revisit the calculations  using proper dates (not hypothetical ones based on an 
assumed early retirement date). This will likely mean further contact with the Trustees at that 
time. Theyve confirmed their pensions guarantee  guaranteeing Mr W is placed in exactly 
the same position he would have been in had he remained in the OPS  remains valid. 
I think this is a fair and sensible outcome. Phoenix were told by the Trustees there isnt a 
shortfall, and so the best time to revisit that is when Mr W knows he is retiring. But I do think, 
given the uncertainties this episode has caused, and to provide Mr W with the comfort that I 
think he now deserves, Mr W should be able to engage his own actuary to check the 
calculations when that moment arrives  assuming he remains unhappy with the outcome of 
the reinstatement (re)calculations at that time. And I think Phoenix should cover the cost of 
the work undertaken by Mr Ws choice of actuary as well in this event. 
Phoenixs 2002 reinstatement calculations
Mr W has referred to lots of figures in his various exchanges with this office. I dont list these 
all here. He wants us to confirm if these are correct, or what they mean. However, whilst I do 
appreciate Mr Ws confusion here, as Ive already said Im not going to address every 
question that Mr W has asked  just those that I think are relevant to this Phoenix complaint. 
And, as Ive said, we dont have actuaries to undertake these checks. But I do want to 
comment on, and maybe help explain, the calculations Phoenix made in 2002  these are 
fundamental to the amounts Phoenix paid to the OPS, and clarity regarding these may help 
remove elements of confusion that Mr W has.
The OPS said Phoenix had to pay £5,325.95 to reinstate Mr W back into the OPS. This was 
calculated in 2002 and was based on the 2002 costs involved (so, not on 1991-1995 rates). 
This fact is important, because it means the calculations Phoenix then made also had to be 
done at 2002 rates  to allow a proper comparison involving amounts that Mr W had paid 
into his PP and in extra NI.  
So, Phoenix began by considering what Mr W had paid to their PP during the reinstatement 
period.  They calculated hed paid total premiums of £5,364.18 to them, and that hed paid 
£1,174.67 in additional National Insurance premiums (had he stayed in the OPS during the 
reinstatement period, hed have benefitted by paying smaller contracted-out rates). As these were the actual amounts paid in the reinstatement period, they were revalued to 
November 2002 rates - the premiums-paid figure (£5,364.18) was revalued to £9,241.23. 
The excess NI-paid figure (£1,174.67) was revalued to £2,054.85  so a total re-valued 
amount Mr W wouldnt have paid (to Phoenix or in extra NI payments) had he remained in 
his OPS of £11,296.08.
The next step was to calculate a revalued amount equating to what Mr W would have paid 
had he stayed in the OPS for the reinstatement period. This was needed to work out how 
much extra hed actually paid in that period. So, based on a 4% deduction of Mr Ws 
estimated salary, Phoenix calculated Mr W would have paid £2,412.88 into his OPS scheme 
during the period. This was then revalued to £4,202.99 at November 2002 rates. 
So, Mr W paid  at revalued November 2002 rates - £11,296.08, whereas he should only 
have paid £4,202.99. He paid £7,093.09 too much. And as Ive said earlier in the what 
happened section, Phoenix couldnt pay this into his OPS. Instead, they paid it (with a small 
amount of interest) to the OPS to be invested in a separate AVC plan. And Im satisfied this 
sum has been paid to the OPS. 
Mr W has repeatedly raised concerns about some of the above numbers, questioning if 
theyve been correctly applied, and if hes lost out as a result of Phoenixs calculations. I 
dont believe he has, and I hope the above explanation goes some way to helping Mr W 
understand and accept this (but to be clear, this comment doesnt refer to potential missing 
GMP amounts, just the above calculations).  
Distress and inconvenience
Its clear Phoenixs 2002 oversight has caused Mr W considerable upset and stress, all of 
which was avoidable. Their failure to read all the OPS reinstatement letter meant the full 
extent of the required reinstatement calculations werent undertaken, and the GMP element 
overlooked. Had Phoenix read the 2002 reinstatement letter properly, its arguable much of 
the subsequent uncertainty and confusion would have been avoided. 
Phoenix believe their £200 D&I payment is sufficient to compensate Mr W for all of the 
distress caused by this. I disagree, and think the extra amount awarded by our investigator - 
£500  provides a fairer award. So, this is what I intend to ask Phoenix to pay. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Phoenix have confirmed they agree with the outcome proposed in my PD. However, Mr W 
does not agree. 
Mr W has sent many detailed emails since receiving the PD, with attachments (many of 
which I have already seen), reiterating points that hed made vociferously before. I can 
assure Mr W that Ive read everything he has sent in the past weeks. Mr W has also asked 
multiple questions in these emails, insisting on answers to each of them. I wont list these 
here, and nor will I be answering each of them either. No discourtesy is intended. 
But I do want to thank Mr W for taking the time to provide this information, and also make 
separate enquiries with his OPS Trustee, the response to which Ive also read fully, and 
which confirms his pension contains no Member Contributions between 1991 and 1995. The Financial Ombudsman is an informal dispute resolution service, which means I dont 
need to comment on, or respond to, every request made, or point raised in the course of our 
investigation. And its not our role to calculate what amounts, if any, are missing from the 
funds Phoenix paid to the OPS as part of the 2002 reinstatement. Instead, I need only to 
consider and address the points I think are relevant to the crux of the complaint(s) brought to 
us, which is what I did in my PD and will also do now. 
I fully acknowledge that Mr W continues to feel a sense of deep injustice over the way hes 
been treated by Phoenix, both in hindsight given the (admitted) mistakes they made in 2002, 
and in their subsequent attempts to rectify those mistakes. He remains unhappy and 
convinced that his reinstatement into his OPS hasnt been done properly. 
He also remains highly critical of the actions of his OPS Trustees too, which I also 
acknowledge  who he feels have failed to engage properly with Phoenix. As in the PD, I 
wont be commenting on his dispute with the OPS Trustees  that is not within my remit, and 
as I understand it continues to be subject to a complaint made to the Pensions Ombudsman. 
I can only comment on the complaint against Phoenix, and within this Decision can only 
direct Phoenix to act in a certain way.
Mr W doesnt agree with the calculations that Phoenix undertook before paying funds back 
into the OPS Scheme, and into the separate AVC policy. But there is little I can add to those 
calculations, and what Ive said before. Repeating what I said in my PD, the Financial 
Ombudsman does not employ actuaries, who are needed to undertake the very detailed and 
technical calculations that are required in a case such as this. Its for this reason I included a 
provision in my PD for Mr W to engage the services of his own actuary, paid for by Phoenix - 
so not use one connected to Phoenix or the OPS, to ensure complete independence, and 
give Mr W comfort that this actuary would be acting in his best interests.
And having re-considered all the information provided by Mr W, I remain convinced this is 
the fairest, and most sensible outcome here. I am unable to calculate what Mr Ws OPS 
pension may still be owed by way of missing GMP. Phoenix accept nothing was paid to the 
OPS Trustees in 2002 in relation to this  this point in principle has never been in dispute. 
They also accept, in principle, that further calculations are warranted  - but on the basis of 
what the OPS Trustees told Phoenix (that nothing was due), this calculation would be best 
undertaken when a crystallising event, Mr W retiring in other words, was due to take place. 
In the circumstances, this is sensible. 
Its clear Mr Ws OPS doesnt contain GMP for the periods hed paid into his Phoenix plan. 
And its right he is provided with meaningful, accurate and straightforward information, and 
calculations, to properly explain what is (or isnt) missing in terms of that GMP (and what 
Phoenix would then need to pay to put that right). This is what an Actuary, engaged by him, 
will be able to provide  if ultimately necessary. 
So, based on all of the above, Ive seen to reason to change the outcome set out in my PD. I 
think its a fair outcome, and will provide Mr W with the certainty he deserves that his OPS 
pension, when finally taken, will be accurate and fully reflect what he would have been due if 
hed not paid any funds into the Phoenix plan between 1991 and 1995.  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint, and require Phoenix Life Assurance Limited to do the following:
-Once Mr W advises Phoenix of his intended retirement date, they must revisit the 
reinstatement calculations, and make enquiries with Mr Ws OPS Trustees and/or HMRC as necessary, to definitively calculate what further GMP-related sums, if any, need to be 
paid by them to his OPS Plan to fully return him to the exact position he would have 
been in had he remained in his OPS for an unbroken period between August 1988 and 
May 2001. 
-Ensure that Mr Ws pension guarantee remains in force until such time that this exercise 
has been completed
-Pay for Mr W to engage his own actuary, should he request this, to check the 
calculations undertaken as part of this exercise
-Pay Mr W an extra £500 D&I compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman