DRN-2821434
The complaint
Miss H complains about the way that Studio Retail Limited has dealt with an order that she 
made on her online shopping account.
What happened
Miss H has an online shopping account with Studio Retail. She used that account to buy 
some items in September 2020 at a total cost of £259.93. It was her understanding that the 
order was included in a six month interest free offer but Studio Retail didnt apply that offer 
and started charging interest on the order. Miss H complained to it but it said that eligibility 
for the interest saver plan is assessed when an order is placed and that, if Miss H had been 
eligible, it wouldve shown when the order was processed but, as it didnt, she wasnt 
eligible.
Miss H wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She said that Miss H wasnt eligible 
for another interest free plan at the time that the order was made. 
Miss H has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that 
Studio Retail didn't tell her that she wasnt eligible for another plan until after shed 
complained to this service and shes sure that she was offered an interest saver plan for the 
order and that she added the plan to her order.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss H opened an account with Studio Retail in September 2020 and made an order 
which was eligible for an interest saver plan;
Studio Retail says that she was only eligible for an interest saver plan for her first 
order and that she wouldnt then have been eligible for another interest saver plan 
until shed had her account for more than twelve months;
it also says that theres no sign of Miss H using a plan related offer code for the order 
about which shes complained and its unaware of there being any issues with 
selecting payment types at that time;
its clear that Miss H feels very strongly that she was offered an interest saver plan 
for this order - but shes not been able to provide any documentary evidence to show 
that the order was made on that basis;
in complaints such as this one where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Miss Hs order included 
a six months interest free offer and I consider it to be more likely than not that her 
order wasnt eligible for an interest saver plan and that one wasnt offered to her;
I sympathise with Miss H for the issues that shes had with her order and understand 
the frustration that she feels about having to pay interest on an order which she 
understood would be interest free for six months, but Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence to show that Studio Retail has acted incorrectly in these 
circumstances; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Studio Retail to change 
the terms of Miss Hs order, to refund to her any interest, to pay her any other 
compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman