DRN-2328113
The complaint
Mr E and the estate of Mrs E complain that Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey 
National) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Ill just refer to the 
business as Santander in this decision to keep things simple.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E took out a mortgage with Santander in 2001. Around the same time, they took 
out a PPI policy to protect their monthly mortgage payments. 
The mortgage was in Mr and Mrs E's joint names. Santander's records show that the policy 
covered Mr E only. It cost around £11 per month, and would have paid a monthly benefit of 
£190 if Mr E had made a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Santanders records show that the PPI was cancelled in 2007.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why:
Mr Es told us that it was made clear that to obtain the mortgage, PPI had to be taken. 
And he says that because it was part of the mortgage monthly payment, he forgot all 
about it.
Santander no longer has copies of the paperwork Mr and Mrs E signed when they took 
out the mortgage and PPI. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given the time 
thats passed. But based on what we know of the way Santander sold these policies at 
the time, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs E would have had to complete a separate 
application form and direct debit mandate for the PPI. So I think theyd have realised it 
was a separate product from the mortgage. And I cant fairly conclude that Santander 
told them the PPI was compulsory, based solely on Mr Es recollection of events that 
took place so long ago.
Ive also seen a copy of the welcome letter which the insurer sent to Mr E after Mr and 
Mrs E completed their purchase. It says that their first direct debit payment would be 
collected shortly afterwards, and premiums would be collected monthly after that, and 
would show on Mr Es bank statements as AN Paymentcare. So while I dont doubt that 
Mr Es given me his honest recollection, Im satisfied that the monthly payments for the 
PPI would have been made separately from the mortgage payments. And hed have 
been aware this at the time.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied, on balance, that Santander made it clear to 
Mr and Mrs E that the PPI was optional. And I think they decided to take out a policy in 
Mr Es name  although I can understand how Mr E may no longer remember this, so 
long after the event.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs E. This means it had a responsibility to 
check that it was suitable for them. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on 
what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Es circumstances at the time.
Mr Es told us he cant remember how much sick pay hed have been entitled to from his 
employer at the time. If hed made a successful claim on the PPI, it would have paid 
Mr and Mrs Es monthly mortgage payments for up to 12 months. I think its likely thats 
longer than Mr E would have received full sick pay for. And it would have paid the same 
benefit if hed been made redundant. Whats more, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any payments Mr E received from his employer. So he could have used those 
to meet other expenses. 
Mr Es mentioned that he and Mrs E had some savings when they took out the mortgage 
and PPI. But Ive borne in mind that theyd chosen to keep their savings, rather than 
taking out a smaller mortgage. And having the PPI would have meant that they didnt 
need to use their savings to pay their mortgage payments if Mr E had been off sick or if 
hed lost his job. So they could have continued to keep them for future use, or used them 
to meet other expenses.
I acknowledge the Mr Es told us family would have helped financially if need be. But 
circumstances can change. And I cant be sure that Mr and Mrs Es family would have 
been in a position to help financially if the need had arisen.
Ive borne in mind that the mortgage was a significant, long-term financial commitment, 
secured on Mr and Mrs Es property, and the consequences of falling behind with their 
monthly payments could have been serious. Taking everything into account, I think they 
could have found the PPI useful.
The cost of the policy was shown in the welcome letter. So I think Mr and Mrs E would 
have understood how much they'd need to pay for it. And since they were paying for the 
PPI monthly, they could have cancelled it at any time with no further cost if their 
circumstances changed, or if they decided they no longer needed the cover.
Its possible Santander didn't point out the main things the policy didn't cover (for 
example, existing medical conditions or unusual working arrangements). But from what 
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, its unlikely that Mr E would have been 
affected by any of these. So I dont think better information would have put Mr and Mrs E 
off taking the cover.Ive taken account of all Mr Es comments, including what hes said about never having 
made a claim during the years when his wife was ill. But as Ive mentioned, the policy only 
covered Mr E. So the fact that no claim was made during Mrs Es illness doesnt change my 
opinion. Im sorry to disappoint Mr E, but I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold.
This means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI. But Santander 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because:
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs E about that. Because Santander didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr E any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and the 
estate of Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman