DRN-2354104
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Js complaint is that in February 2008 they had to take out a Choice Plus 
packaged bank account (CPA) in order to get a mortgage from Northern Rock Bank Limited 
(trading as Danske and referred to hereafter as Danske).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. The 
available facts are not in dispute, so Ill concentrate here on giving my reasons for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion of our adjudicator for these reasons:
I think Mr and Mrs J knew they had a choice whether to take out the CPA or not. I say this 
because none of the account documentation available indicates that Mr and Mrs J were told 
they had to take out the CPA to get a mortgage.
Ive looked carefully at the email conversation between Mr and Mrs J and a representative of 
Danske in the days before the CPA was taken out.
The representative did clearly encourage Mr and Mrs J to take out the CPA, specifically 
because of the £750 mortgage fee waiver. But the words hes used imply a choice, 
effectively saying it was something they might want to take advantage of. I can see no 
evidence from the exchanges they had that Mr and Mrs J were told they had to take the CPA 
to get a mortgage.
Also, its evident to me from the email conversation just before the sale that Mr and Mrs J 
were experienced in financial matters. So, I think its more likely than not that if they had 
been told they could only have a mortgage if they took out a CPA and were unhappy about 
it, they would have been aware they could go elsewhere to any number of banks and 
financial institutions for a mortgage and would have done so.
So, in my view its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs J knew they had a choice and chose 
to take out the CPA.
Mr and Mrs J say the CPA was recommended to them and they were advised to take it out. 
Danske says the sale was non advised. I will consider the sale as advised as this is to Mr 
and Mrs Js advantage and doesnt affect the outcome of my decision.
So, Danske was required provide for Mr and Mrs J with enough information to make an 
informed decision and to ensure the CPA was suitable for them.
I think its more likely than not that Danske did provide enough information that because they 
were trying to sell the CPA to Mr and Mrs J and clearly had substantial discussions with 
them. And immediately Mr and Mrs J used one of the major benefits by taking out a 
mortgage and saving £750 in arrangement fees, because they had the CPA.
In my view, I couldnt say the CPA was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs J because they made an 
immediate financial saving of £750. The CPA cost £11 a month or £132 a year. The terms 
and conditions of the account placed no restriction on when they could close the account.
So, if theyd wanted to, for several years after opening the CPA they could have closed it 
and still been better off. But they didnt and kept it for many years.
So, overall, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs J knew they had a choice and 
chose to take out the CPA. The CPA was suitable for them and there wasnt anything they 
werent told that would have put them off buying it.
For these reasons I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman