DRN-3599196
The complaint
Mrs C had motor insurance underwritten by Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance 
Limited (BHI). She complains about how BHI dealt with things after her car broke down. 
References to BHI include other organisations and individuals acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mrs Cs car broke down. She says thick black smoke came out from under the bonnet. Mrs 
Cs garage said the car might not be repairable, and advised her to contact BHI as there 
could have been a fire, which she could claim for under her insurance policy.
BHI arranged for the car to be taken to its salvage agents, and be inspected by its 
engineers. The engineer said there was no sign of fire and the problem may have been 
caused by mechanical failure, so wasnt covered by her policy.
BHI contacted Mrs C and said due to its engineer being unable to find evidence of fire 
damage, it had declined and closed her claim. BHI told Mrs C where the car was and said 
she would need to contact the salvage agents to advise what she wished to do with it.
Mrs C says she was told as there was no claim, she would need to collect her car and pay 
the storage charge to the salvage agent. Mrs C refused to do so. She says she was told her 
car would be auctioned to pay the storage costs if she didnt pay.
Mrs C wasnt happy with this and complained to BHI. BHI said mechanical failure wasnt 
covered by her policy, and it had told her where her car was and invited her to make 
arrangements for it. 
Mrs C wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
upheld her complaint. She said as BHI removed the car to its salvage agents it wasnt fair or 
reasonable to expect Mrs C to collect it or pay for the recovery and storage. The investigator 
asked BHI to return the car to Mrs C and pay the charges. BHI agreed to do so.
The investigator also said that BHI should have returned the car to Mrs C once it declined 
her claim. She said BHI should pay Mrs C £300 for the stress and inconvenience caused to 
her by not doing so.
BHI didnt agree to make this payment. It said Mrs C could have collected her car at any 
time. BHI said it had returned the car to Mrs C, which it wouldnt normally do.
Mrs C also wasnt happy with what the investigator suggested and so the complaint has 
been passed to me. Mrs C says being without her car has cost her significantly more than 
£300. She also says when that the car was returned its condition had deteriorated and it was 
mouldy inside. Mrs C says she wants compensation for the trauma and inconvenience 
caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
On 10 June 2022 I issued a provisional decision. The provisional decision said:
I dont intend to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Cs insurance policy documents said:
What is not covered
mechanical, electrical, electronic or computer failures, breakdowns or breakages
BHIs engineers report said:
Wefound no traces of fire damage, either in smoke, smell, or visually. We checked all the 
wiring we could see, pipes and hoses all seemed intact.
As we could not find any evidence of any form of fire damage, we assume that there may 
have been some form of mechanical failure which requires further investigation.
So I think it was fair and reasonable for BHI to have relied on the engineers report and 
refused Mrs Cs claim. Mrs C said BHI should have carried out the further investigation. 
However I think as the report clearly excludes fire as the cause of the problem BHI didnt 
need to do further work to establish what type of mechanical failure occurred, as this 
wouldnt have been covered by the policy.
Our investigator did suggest to Mrs C that she consider paying the storage charges to 
release her car, to prevent the bill increasing further. She said once the complaint had been 
reviewed if she felt BHI had acted unfairly she would ask them to put things right, which 
might involve refunding charges. 
Mrs C chose not to do this. Her car was returned to her by BHI about five months after the 
incident. If the car had been returned when the claim was declined it wouldnt have been 
driveable, and possibly not repairable as suggested by Mrs Cs garage. I understand BHI 
arranged for the car to be taken to its salvage agents as it believed it was beyond 
economical repair. So even if the car was returned right away and Mrs C decided to have it 
repaired, and this was in fact possible, she still would have been without it for a period of 
time.
Mrs C has sent this service pictures of the condition of the car when it was returned. We 
have forwarded these to BHI. BHI said it and its salvage agent had both made it very clear to 
Mrs C that she had to collect the car from storage. BHI said Mrs C refused to do so, and 
even asked that the car wasnt moved. BHI has provided case records showing such 
conversations. The records also show Mrs C considered selling the car to the salvage 
agents, which wouldnt be unusual in such circumstances.
I think if Mrs C had either agreed to accept the car back while her complaint was being 
investigated, or had agreed to sell it, she could have mitigated some of her losses.
BHI returned Mrs Cs car to her, and paid the storage charges for the whole period. In all the 
circumstances I think this was a fair and reasonable way to settle her complaint.
My provisional decisionFor the reasons given above I dont intend to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. So I dont intend to 
ask Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Limited to do anything.
Responses to my provisional decision
BHI didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mrs C said she was not in agreement with my provisional decision but didnt want to respond 
further.
Having thought about the circumstances once again I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. So I wont be asking 
Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman