DRN-2957509
The complaint
Miss P complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) failed to correctly record 
that a transaction was genuine. She says this means shes had to spend a lot of time trying 
to get through to and then talking to Halifax which has caused unnecessary inconvenience 
and worry.
What happened
On 4 November, Miss P had a text from the bank about possible fraud on her account. She 
contacted the bank to approve the transaction  a payment to another account she had with 
a different bank. She was told to contact the other bank to confirm the details to make sure 
she wasnt being scammed and was given a number to call Halifax back on once shed done 
this. Miss P says she tried to call Halifax back the next day, 5 November, but the call system 
wouldnt recognise her account details as it was for a bank linked to Halifax. Miss P called 
Halifaxs general number and says she waited for around an hour before speaking with 
someone. When she did get through to the fraud department, she says she confirmed the 
details were correct and the payment was made. She also made further transfers from her 
account without any problems.
Two weeks after first speaking to Halifax, Miss P got another text message asking her to get 
in touch about a recent payment request. She left a conference call early to resolve this and 
says the message caused her concern as she hadnt made any recent payments and, when 
she logged into online banking, it said her sign in details had been suspended. 
When she got through to Halifax, she was told it was a mistake - the transaction shed 
previously spoken to the bank about on 5 November hadnt been dealt with correctly. As a 
result, a further alert was raised by text and her online access blocked until it could be 
resolved. The call handler marked the transaction as genuine, apologised this hadnt been 
done correctly and said steps would be taken to ensure this didnt happen again.
Miss P complained to Halifax. It said payments can be stopped for security checks and this 
is part of the bank making sure accounts are safe from fraudulent activity. Whilst it 
recognised this was frustrating, it explained security checks are needed to ensure 
customers accounts are kept secure. Even so, it appreciated the time she had spent on the 
phone to resolve matters and paid Miss P compensation of £60 in recognition of this which 
included £10 towards extra call costs.
Miss P felt £150 was a more appropriate amount of compensation as shed spent so much 
time resolving this and it impacted on her family time.
Our investigator looked into matters and thought it was reasonable for Halifax to have 
carried out checks in order to protect a customers account. But he also thought Halifax 
shouldve dealt with matters correctly on 5 November. If it had, this wouldve prevented her 
from needing to make a further call to them. Having said this, he felt Halifax had resolved 
things quickly during the phone call after the second text and considered the £60 Halifax had 
paid to Miss P was fair and reasonable to reflect the inconvenience shed faced. 
Miss P disagreed and the matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. And I think he set 
out the position clearly about why he felt Halifax didnt need to do anything further to put 
things right. So, theres not much I feel I can usefully add to what has already been said.
Halifax, like all other banks, has systems which flag transactions which may be fraudulent. 
Of course, this means that sometimes genuine transactions can be caught by this and 
additional security measures may be required before further transactions can be allowed. 
And it seems that is what has occurred in this situation.
I appreciate its not the initial alert which Miss Ps key concern but the fact it wasnt resolved 
properly on 5 November and what couldve happened as a result along with the time it took 
her to sort things out. I think its reasonable for her to expect that Halifax shouldve dealt with 
matters correctly on 5 November. But I also think its important to recognise that mistakes 
can happen. As a service, our awards are designed to compensate consumers, not punish 
organisations. So, we look at the impact any mistakes have had on the consumer concerned 
in the particular complaint that has been brought to us. 
I havent seen any evidence of a financial loss caused by this although I can see from what 
has been said by Miss P that she found this worrying as she hadnt made any further 
transactions. And it took additional time to resolve which shouldnt have been needed. I 
balance this with the fact that Halifax resolved matters as soon as it spoke to Miss P after 
the second text and apologised for its mistake straight away. It has now also paid £60 to 
Miss P for the distress, inconvenience and additional call costs and apologised for the time 
she spent trying to get in touch with it. I think this is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this 
particular case. So, Im not asking Halifax to do anything more to put things right. 
I know Miss P will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to resolve her dispute with Halifax  can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman