DRN-3305584
The complaint and what happened
Mr C complains Santander UK Plc provided him with incorrect information about the maturity 
value of three endowment policies, which has resulted him paying his mortgage for longer 
than necessary. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat the here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr C says he contacted Santander and was told the expected maturity value of 
endowments policies being used to repay his mortgage were falling short by £40,000. 
As this was higher than the £20,000 hed been previously told and had budgeted for, 
he withheld his final mortgage payment whilst raising a complaint about the sale of 
the polices. But as complaints about the sale had been made in 2005, Santander 
didnt look into them again, and we explained the matter had been referred to us out 
of time and so couldnt look at the complaint.
Mr C received letters from solicitors about the repayment of his mortgage which was 
past due. He says he called Santander and was told he should ignore the 
correspondence as it was just solicitors fishing for business. Months later he was told 
repossession proceedings had started. 
Mr C complained but Santander didnt uphold his complaint; it couldnt find any 
evidence that he had been told an incorrect maturity value for his endowment 
policies, nor that he should ignore solicitor correspondence. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint either.  
Mr C asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He questions if he 
was never told the shortfall was £40,000 why he sent an email to us referring to this 
amount on his previous complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of the 
complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
I havent been provided with any persuasive evidence that Santander provided Mr C 
with incorrect information about the expected maturity values on his endowment 
policies. Whilst he has provided a copy of an email he sent to our service previously, 
which contains this sum, this doesnt explicitly say the information came from 
Santander. And it isnt necessarily information Santander would have been privy to, 
not being the endowment provider.  
But even if Santander had provided incorrect information, which I have found above it 
didnt, I dont consider Mr Cs actions of withholding final payment of the mortgage to 
be reasonable. Mr C was contractually obliged to repay his mortgage at the end of 
the term. All of the policies had matured before or around the mortgage repayment 
due date, so he would have known for himself what the actual shortfall was. And hed 
already complained about the sale of the policies and so ought to have known there 
were no guarantees as to the maturity value. There is no plausible or reasonable 
reason why Mr C couldnt have repaid his mortgage, or as much of it as he could, 
whilst pursing any complaint separately.  In law there is a general principle that a 
person should mitigate against any losses  by not paying off the capital when due, 
and bearing in mind Mr C has told us he budgeted for a £20,000 shortfall which 
would have covered the shortfall in maturity values  Mr C didnt mitigate against any 
potential losses.
Santander has provided copies of call recordings between it and Mr C, although 
many of those calls werent answered or information was passed to a third-party 
asking Mr C to call back. Santander has explained that not all of its calls are 
recorded, but of those that have been provided, at no point was Mr C told to ignore 
letters from a firm of solicitors. I consider it highly unlikely Mr C was told that, given 
Santander had been trying to get in touch with him about the repayment of his 
mortgage. There is also no reasonable explanation for why Mr C didnt act on 
separate legal correspondence nor act on the many letters Santander sent, nor 
return any of its calls. 
Mr C continued to pay monthly interest payments on the mortgage as it wasnt repaid 
when due. As I have found that Santander didnt do anything wrong, I find no basis 
on which to ask to either reimburse those repayments or make a contribution towards 
them. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman