DRN-3991545
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt tell him about changes to how his 
statements would be made available to him.
What happened
Mr P was used to receiving paper statements from Nationwide in the post. In August 2022, 
he opened a new account with Nationwide. After this, Mr P didnt receive statements in the 
post as he expected. He says that because of this, he didnt know what payments to make 
and so didnt make any.
Mr P then became aware that Nationwide had applied late payment fees because he had 
missed these payments. He complained to Nationwide, saying that he had never changed 
his preference in how to receive statements and was responsible for him missing the 
payments. Nationwide responded to his complaint  saying that its records showed that Mr P 
himself had changed the preference on the account. So it didnt consider it had made a 
mistake.
Mr P remained unhappy about this and brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked at the matter and felt that Nationwide had acted fairly. They said that the 
records showed that Mr P himself changed the preference for statements. They considered 
that Mr P said that the account was opened in branch and that a member of staff may have 
selected the relevant preference, but said it was Mr Ps responsibility to have checked that.
Our investigator went on to say that Mr P would likely have been aware that he needed to 
make payments to the account and that if he hadnt received his statements, then he could 
have let Nationwide know this. Mr P disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant records here do support that Mr P changed his preference to paperless 
statements in August 2022 when he opened the new account. This being the case, its 
difficult to see how Nationwide has acted unfairly in sending Mr Ps statements in line with 
that preference.
But Mr P says that he applied for the account in a branch and that a member of staff entered 
the relevant details. So Ive considered whether that member of staff could have selected 
that preference without Mr P being aware, or perhaps fully aware, of what was happening. In 
my view, that could have happened  but even if it did, I dont think that means that 
Nationwide can be fairly held responsible for Mr P missing his payments as he did.
I say this because Mr P used the card in the months after the application and would have 
read the terms and conditions when agreeing to the terms of it. So he would have been 
reasonably aware that he needed to make payments to Nationwide.
I cant see that Mr P ever contacted Nationwide to say he hadnt received his statements, or 
to ask it about his payments. Had he done so, he would likely have been able to make 
payments in the way he needed to. So in all the circumstances here, I dont think I can say 
that Nationwide can fairy be held liable for Mr P missing his payments, or for any 
consequences of this.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman