DRN-3459640
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have wrongly registered a default on his 
account, after telling him that it would agree a payment holiday.
What happened
Mr M took out a loan with Lloyds in December 2018. He maintained the contractual 
payments until April 2020, when he became unemployed as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic. He contacted the bank and agreed a six-month payment holiday from May 2020 
to October 2020.
Mr M was not able to make payments after this, and further agreements were put in place 
until July 2021. On 16 July 2021 Mr M contacted Lloyds again to confirm that he was not 
able to make payments. The bank took Mr M through his income and expenditure, identifying 
a monthly shortfall of around £1,000, and a further three-month freeze was agreed.
Lloyds reviewed his account shortly after this July agreement was made, and decided it 
should not have made it. By this stage, no payments had been made to the account since 
April 2020. The bank wrote to Mr M on 19 July 2021 to say that it was cancelling the 
agreement, and would register the account as in default if it could not be brought up to date. 
Mr M says that he did not receive this letter and so did not respond to it.
Mr M became aware that the account had been registered as being in default, and 
complained to Lloyds in October 2021. The bank agreed that it had got things wrong by 
telling him it would apply a further freeze. It paid him £200 to reflect this mistake, and agreed 
to remove the default. But it thought that it was right to register the default unless the 
account could be brought up to date. Lloyds gave Mr M 28 days to pay the amount which 
had been outstanding in July 2021. He did not do so and the default was registered again.
Mr M thought that this was unfair as he had done all he could to keep Lloyds informed of his 
circumstances, and he felt that a registered default had a disproportionate impact upon him.
Our investigator thought that the bank had got things wrong by agreeing a further extension 
in July 2021, and then registering a default anyway. But they also thought that the default 
was properly registered when Mr M could not bring his account up to date by November 
2021. They thought that £200 properly reflected the banks mistakes in this case.
Mr M did not agree and so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M was suffering understandable financial difficulties, and kept in contact with Lloyds to 
keep them informed throughout the relevant period. This is reflected in the payment holidays 
and freezes which were applied to his account up until July 2021. But by this point, his 
account was over £2,400 in arrears and his monthly outgoings were £1,000 more than his 
monthly income. 
While I can understand Mr Ms wish for this to continue, I can see why Lloyds thought it had 
made a mistake here. It was clear by this stage that Mr Ms financial difficulties were long 
term and that he couldnt bring the account back within its agreed terms. In those 
circumstances I think Lloyds would have been entitled to take further action to record a 
default, as it accurately reflects the situation. In the circumstances, the only likely impact of a 
further agreement was to drive up the arrears further. 
Having wrongly made the agreement, the bank then recognised this issue and issued a 
default notice. While this was apparently sent to an old address of Mr M, who had moved, I 
cannot see that he had provided an updated address to them. In the circumstances, I do not 
think that this had a real impact in any event. Due to his circumstances, Mr M simply did not 
have the money to make the payments due.
So Lloyds mistake here was to agree to a further extension and payment plan which could 
only cost Mr M more money by adding further interest and charges. It must also have been 
surprising when this was suddenly cancelled and the default notice issued.. The question for 
me is what would have happened if the bank had got things right?
I have considered this carefully, and I think that, given Mr Ms particular certainty that he 
wanted to avoid a default, the banks proposal in October 2021 was a fair and reasonable 
one. It wound back the outstanding balance to the sum from July 2021, and gave Mr M the 
appropriate further 28 days to make payment. That is what it should have done in July, but it 
had also given Mr M an extra three months to allow his circumstances to improve. That Mr M 
was unable to make the payment in November is no criticism of him, but simply reflects his 
financial situation at the time.
The banks mistakes did, however, cause Mr M considerable distress and inconvenience. It 
must have been very confusing and upsetting to have thought that another plan had been 
agreed only to suddenly be told that it had been cancelled and that he had to take action to 
avoid a default without any real context. For the impact this had I am satisfied that £200 
properly reflects this.
While I can understand Mr Ms frustration at having worked for so long to avoid an impact 
upon his credit rating, which nevertheless resulted in a default, I am afraid that I do not think 
that the bank acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman