DRN-2730077
The complaint
The estate of Mr R brings a complaint about AXIS specialty Europe SEs decision to decline 
his personal accident claim.
This complaint has been brought by representatives of the estate, but for simplicity, Ill refer 
to the late Mr R throughout the decision, except where its more appropriate to refer to those 
representatives, Mrs R and Mr G. 
 
What happened
Mr R had an accident protection policy with AXIS supplied by his employer. Part of this 
policy afforded cover in the event of accidental death. Sadly, in January 2017, Mr R was 
involved in a serious road traffic accident which resulted in the tragic loss of his life. And so, 
Mrs R and Mr G brought a claim to AXIS on behalf of the estate, however, it was declined. 
Mrs R and Mr G want AXIS to reconsider its position with the view to accepting the claim. 
AXIS said it declined the claim because Mr R had increased his risk to exceptional danger 
because of the events prior to the collision. It highlighted that Mr R had overtaken another 
vehicle and increased his speed beyond the limit in order to do so. AXIS said it was after that 
manoeuvre that he came into contact with another vehicle that was turning which ultimately 
took his life. AXIS also said it believed Mr R was driving carelessly or dangerously and that 
this was a criminal act. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that AXIS hadnt declined the claim 
unfairly as it was able to provide persuasive evidence, like the police report and coroners 
report to show that Mr R had breached its policy terms. But she also noted there was no 
criminal investigation into this case and so didnt think it fair for AXIS to rely on that argument 
to decline the claim.  
Mrs R and Mr G didnt agree with her findings. There were a number of submissions made in 
response to her view, including several references to case studies which they deemed 
relevant to the outcome of her investigation. Ive not listed them here, but Ive thought 
carefully about what theyve said. And so, its now for me to reach a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. My reasons for doing so are 
similar to those already explained by our investigator. Because Mr R was travelling at 
excessive speed, almost double the speed limit, in order to overtake another vehicle, he 
increased his risk to danger with a regrettable outcome. I dont think AXIS has declined the 
claim unfairly on that basis. Ill explain why. 
The relevant term that applies here is;
This insurance does not cover death or disablement in any way caused or contributed to by:
An insured persons deliberate exposure to exceptional danger (except in an attempt to save 
human life);
an insured persons own criminal act
My role here isnt to go into detail about the way Mr R was driving that day, nor is it to give 
an opinion on whether the validity of the specialists reports should be challenged. Its also 
not for this service to consider whether the law has been broken, thats to say whether a 
criminal act has occurred. My role is to consider whether the insurer has acted unreasonably 
by declining the claim, or whether its avoiding a claim. 
Ive highlighted the above term because I believe this is the test in this case. The policy will 
not pay out if Mr Rs death was caused or contributed to by deliberate exposure to 
exceptional danger. AXIS has said this was indeed the case because Mr R was travelling at 
approximately 49mph right before impact. Ive thought carefully about this and I accept this 
took place where a 30mph speed limit was in force. But, in addition, AXIS said it relied on 
the testimony of the expert forensic investigator that said it was his belief that had Mr R 
adhered to the speed restrictions and not overtaken the vehicle that was in front of him, 
which was also travelling at the right speed, then these events would not have occurred and 
Mr R would not have collided with the other vehicle.
Its not for the ombudsman to challenge this statement made by the forensic officer, but I 
have considered whether AXIS is entitled to rely on it  and I think its reasonable for it to do 
so in the circumstances. Its because of these factors that I dont think AXIS has relied on the 
term unfairly in order to decline the claim because theres enough persuasive evidence to 
say that Mr Rs actions meant he deliberately exposed himself to exceptional danger by 
travelling at speed whilst completing a dangerous manoeuvre.  
Ive carefully reviewed the case law and examples provided by Mrs R and Mr G in response 
to our investigators view, but I dont think its relevant to my final decision. The test here is 
whether AXIS relied on persuasive evidence in order to decline the claim brought to it and 
for the reasons Ive explained, I think it did and so theres nothing more I can helpfully add in 
response to those submissions. 
 
Mrs R and Mr G also suggested that the ombudsman should use its fair and reasonable 
remit to effectively overturn the insurers decision to decline the claim. This was with 
particular reference to the speeding element of Mr Rs driving that day. Mrs R and Mr G 
highlighted that the vast majority of drivers, at some point, break the law by unintentionally 
exceeding the speed limit. They gave some statistics around this point specifically with the 
view to make a connection that this perhaps wasnt dangerous driving by Mr R. 
I wanted to acknowledge their arguments here and to clarify that Im not giving an opinion on 
Mr Rs driving that day. Rather, Im considering the facts provided by those involved and 
whether AXIS has relied on them fairly prior to making its decision to decline the claim. 
Given the circumstances surrounding this case, I dont think it would be fair to say AXIS 
made a mistake by relying on that term to decline the claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman