DRN-3949922
The complaint
Miss A complains, in her capacity as trustee of a trust (T), about the way Santander UK Plc 
(trading as Cater Allen Private Bank) handled her request to open a new account for the 
trust.
What happened
Miss A told us:
When she initially enquired about opening a trust bank account, Santander told her 
we offer bank accounts for Trusts, and although our literature mentions that you can 
apply via an Intermediary, this is not a requirement for Trusts. You are able to submit 
the application directly via the post. She understood this to mean that all applications 
were considered equally, no matter where they came from.
She made a direct application for a trust account. To do so, she spent time and 
money in arranging for certified copies of documents (as required by Santanders 
process).
Her application was later rejected, and she believes that is because the bank has 
stricter criteria for direct applications.
Santander gave her a telephone number to call if any of the trustees needed help  
but when they called the number, they were told their request couldnt be dealt with 
over the phone. 
Santander did not initially return the certified copies of identity documents at all, and 
then it returned her documents to her but did not send her the other trustees 
documents. The bank did return the trust deed, but it was irreparably damaged; it had 
been folded into a small envelope, hole punched, and then one of the holes was 
ripped. The trust deed had cost £480 and significant time and energy to obtain.
She was able to open an account with other bank, which did not require certified 
copies of documents.
If she had known that she was on an uneven playing field, and that Santander 
treated applications made through intermediaries more favourably, it is unlikely that 
she would have made the application at all  because she needed the account to be 
opened quickly. She considers that she was misled into wasting her time, energy and 
money in order to cater to Santanders application process.
To resolve her complaint, she would like Santander to pay compensation, apologise, 
and train its staff to advise people there are stricter standards for a direct application.
Santander told us:
It is very sorry for the damage caused to the trust deed, and for the fact that certified 
copies of Miss As identity documentation were not returned to her on time.
It will only return certified identification documents to the document holders home 
address.
It is not required to provide Miss A with any feedback as to why it declined her 
application. It assesses all applications against specific criteria, which Miss As 
application did not meet.
It accepts that Miss A was referred to the bank by her solicitor, but it does not have a 
formal relationship with that firm  so it assessed her application as a direct case.
It has previously offered to pay Miss A £75 to apologise for its service failings.
If Miss A has been required to obtain a copy of her trust deed due to damage that it 
caused, then it will consider paying for the replacement if Miss A provides evidence.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint, but he thought Santander had already done 
enough to put the matter right. 
Miss A did not accept our investigators conclusions. She said her application should have 
been treated equally with one that came through an intermediary, and that the effect of 
Santanders misleading email had been to disadvantage her and damage her health. She 
also said Santander had not previously told her that it was willing to consider the cost of 
replacing the trust deed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to further disappoint Miss A, but there is very little I can add to what our investigator 
has already said. 
It is unfortunate that Miss As application was rejected after the time and effort she put into 
making it, but I dont think Santander misled Miss A about its requirements. It said she could 
apply directly or through an intermediary, and that was true. It didnt advise her to apply in 
one way or the other; it simply said applications could be made in either way.
Santander isnt required to publish the criteria it assesses applications against. I cant see 
that it ever promised Miss A that it would open an account  only that it would consider an 
application should she choose to make one. It has said that it was unable to fully assess 
Ms As application until it had received all the documents it had asked for, and I think that is 
a reasonable position for it to take.
I accept that different banks use different criteria, and that not all banks require certified 
copies of identity documents, but I see nothing unfair about Santanders process. Overall, I 
dont think Santander did anything wrong in choosing not to open a bank account for the 
trust. That means I will not require Santander to reimburse any costs the trustees incurred in making the application, nor will I require it to make any payment in respect of the 
inconvenience they suffered.
However, Santander did make errors in the way it handled Miss As (and her fellow trustees) 
documents, and it wrongly told one of the trustees to put a query in writing when it should 
have been able to deal with the matter over the phone.
Santander has not been able to explain how the trust deed came to be damaged, but it does 
accept that the damage occurred whilst the deed was in its possession. That should not 
have happened, and I think it is right that Santander apologised.
I can see that Santander offered to consider a claim for the costs of replacing the trust deed, 
but only if Miss A is able to provide evidence that she was required to replace the deed as a 
result of the damage the bank caused. I think it would have been helpful if Santander had 
made that offer earlier. However, I dont think the delay in making the offer made a material 
difference in this case, because trust deeds are not automatically invalidated by damage. So 
long as the wording on the document remains legible, even quite extensive damage  like 
stains or tears  will not necessarily prevent a third party from accepting the document as 
evidence of the existence of the trust. 
Here, it appears that Santander made holes in Miss As trust deed and then stuffed it into an 
envelope that was too small for it. I can understand why she would be distressed by what 
appears to be cavalier treatment of a document that was very important to her. But I havent 
seen any evidence that she was required to replace the trust deed, and so Im not 
persuaded that Santanders treatment of the trust deed caused her to suffer a financial loss.
I think there was also some confusion between Santander and the trustees as to whether, 
and how, it would return the certified copies of their identity documents. That confusion and 
the resulting delay is regrettable, but again I cant see that it caused either of the trustees to 
suffer financial loss.
Putting things right
Taking all the evidence into account, I think the offer Santander has already made is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I acknowledge that Miss A strongly 
disagrees, particularly in light of her health conditions, but the award I am making here is 
only to compensate the trustees for Santanders errors. 
I dont think Santander made an error in rejecting the application, so it wouldnt be right for 
me to make an award for the inconvenience of making the application itself, nor for the 
distress the trustees suffered when the application was rejected.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc (trading as Cater Allen Private Bank) should pay 
the trustees of T £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman