DRN-3499525
The complaint
Mr K complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited supplied him with a car which was not of 
satisfactory quality. He wishes to reject it.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr K entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo for a 
used car. The car was around five years old and had covered just over 30,000 miles. It had a 
cash price of just under £20,000.
Quite soon after Mr K took delivery of the car, he says he had to replace the clutch cable, at 
a cost of more than £500.
In October 2021 Mr K says that the engine failed and the cabin filled with smoke. He 
arranged for a local garage to check the car. It reported that one of the engine cylinders was 
damaged. Mr K contacted MotoNovo to complain about the car.
MotoNovo arranged for an independent inspection of the car, and a report of that inspection 
was produced. It confirmed that there was damage to one of the engines cylinders. The car 
could not be driven. The inspection recommended further investigation of the cylinder head 
under workshop conditions. The report concluded that the car was not fault-free but that the 
faults were likely to be wear and tear related and to have developed since purchase.
No further inspection was carried out and, based to a large extent on the independent 
inspectors findings, MotoNovo declined Mr Ks claim. He referred the matter to this service, 
where one of our investigators considered what had happened.
Our investigator noted that MotoNovo was obliged under the hire purchase agreement to 
supply a car which was of satisfactory quality. That included matters such as durability. He 
did not consider that MotoNovo had done that and recommended that it accept the rejection 
of the car, refund some monthly payments and additional costs, and pay Mr K £200 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. MotoNovo did not accept the 
investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case. In doing so, it said that, 
since the independent report had concluded that further investigation was needed, it was for 
Mr K to arrange a further inspection to identify the cause of the fault.
I reviewed the case and issued a provisional decision which differed in some respects from 
the investigators assessment, but which also concluded that MotoNovo had not treated Mr K 
fairly. In my provisional decision, I said: 
As the investigator noted, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, the hire purchase contract 
was to be read as including a term that the car was of satisfactory quality. That means the 
quality a reasonable person would expect in all the circumstances, including the cars age, 
price and mileage. It includes matters such as freedom from minor defects and durability.
 A further effect of the Act is that, where an item is not of satisfactory quality within six 
months of supply, in court it would be for the supplier to show that it was of satisfactory 
quality at delivery. I am not bound by the same rules of evidence as a court would be, but I 
must take the law into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable.
The damage to the engine cylinder meant that the car could not be driven. It does not 
necessarily follow however that the car was not of satisfactory quality. In considering that 
issue, I must have regard, amongst other things, to the cars age, mileage and price. At 
delivery, the car had covered around 30,000 miles and, by the time of the engine failure, 
about 4,000 more. Whilst a car of that age and mileage might begin to need maintenance 
beyond normal servicing, I do not believe a reasonable person would expect it suffer a 
failure of the type seen here.
I note that the inspecting engineer concluded that the fault was not present or developing at 
the point of delivery. There is however little explanation for that conclusion beyond the 
increased mileage. I do not believe however that the fact that Mr K was able to drive the car 
for around 4,000 miles shows that it was of satisfactory quality. He would have expected 
rather more use than that before such a serious failure, and it would have been reasonable 
for him to expect that. In my view, MotoNovo has not shown that the car was of satisfactory 
quality at delivery. It says that, once the inspection report concluded that further investigation 
was needed, the onus fell on Mr K to arrange and pay for that. I am afraid I do not agree. 
MotoNovo commissioned the independent inspection. If, as was the case, that inspection 
recommended further investigation, MotoNovo could have arranged that  so that clear 
conclusions were reached.
The investigator also recommended that MotoNovo reimburse the cost of replacing the cars 
clutch cable. That is however an item which might well need replacing on a car of this age 
and mileage. The need for replacement can reasonably be put down to wear and tear, so I 
do not believe that MotoNovo should pay for this.
Mr K has not had any use of the car since October 2021, so I agree too that any payments 
he has made since then should be refunded, with interest at the contractual rate. That will 
put him in the position he would have been in if he had not made those payments.
As far as the deposit is concerned, the investigator recommended a full refund. Where an 
agreement has been running for a significant length of time, it is arguable that a full refund is 
not appropriate, because the deposit is an up-front payment for the full term. Given the short 
length of time that Mr K had the car in this case, however, I think a full refund is appropriate.
I recommend that MotoNovo end the hire purchase agreement, refund payments made from 
October 2021, refund the deposit, refund the cost of the initial inspection, and pay Mr K a 
further £200. 
Mr K indicated that he would accept my recommendation. MotoNovo did not respond within 
the time limit I set. I have therefore carried out a final review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is disappointing that MotoNovo did not respond to my provisional decision. Had it accepted 
that decision promptly, Mr Ks complaint could have been resolved earlier. If it did not accept 
the decision, I might have expected it to provide further observations or evidence for me to 
consider.  
However, since neither party has provided anything more in response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to reach any different conclusion about Mr Ks complaint.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my provisional decision is that, to resolve Mr Ks complaint in full, 
MotoNovo Finance Limited should (if and to the extent it has not already done so):
end the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr K;
refund Mr Ks deposit of £1,500;
reimburse any monthly payments made from 12 October 2021, together with interest at 
the contractual rate, from the date of payment to the date of the refund;
refund the cost of the initial inspection, £121.20, together with interest at 8% a year 
simple from 12 October 2021 to the date of the refund; and
pay Mr K £200 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he has been put and the 
distress caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman