DRN-4120625
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the service she received from The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) 
while in branch.
What happened
After completing a transaction in branch, the Co-op staff member Mrs B was speaking with 
asked Mrs B a series of questions about why she had closed her credit card account and 
whether she might be interested in applying for a new one. However, the staff member made 
assumptions about Mrs B which Mrs B found distressing, including that Mrs B didnt work 
such that her husband might be able to apply for a new credit card on her behalf. Mrs B 
wasnt happy with how she was spoken with by the staff member, so she raised a complaint.
Co-op responded to Mrs B and apologised for any distress that she may have experienced. 
Co-op also explained that it wasnt the intention of their staff member to upset Mrs B and that 
the branch manager was aware of Mrs Bs feedback and was committed to ensuring that all 
the staff at the branch take Mrs Bs feedback on board. Mrs B wasnt satisfied with Co-ops 
response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that it was difficult to say with 
any certainty what the intention of the staff member had been, and they felt that it was 
possible that the staff member had followed a scripted approach in a clumsy way. As such, 
our investigator didnt feel that they could fairly and impartially say that Co-op should take 
any further action as Mrs B would like. Mrs B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account, 
our remit is focussed on whether we feel a fair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the factors and circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
It's clear that Mrs B was very upset by how she was spoken to in branch by Co-ops staff 
member, and Id like to reassure Mrs B that Ive taken the strength of her feeling into 
consideration when reviewing this complaint.
But Im also duty bound to consider this matter from Co-ops perspective also. And this 
includes the apology that Co-op have already provided to Mrs B in their response to her 
complaint, as well as the instructions given to Co-op staff surrounding credit card 
approaches that the staff member in question appears to have been attempting to follow.
For instance, Co-op have explained that their staff members are trained to notice if a 
customer with whom theyre speaking has previously held a credit card account thats been 
closed  such as Mrs B had  and to ask such customers whether they had chosen to close 
the credit card account or whether it had been the decision of the bank. And Co-op staff 
members are also trained to ask further questions about income, including partners income, 
to ascertain whether the customer might be able to apply for a credit card account again.
Co-ops approach isnt unusual here, and ultimately, its for Co-op to decide how they will 
approach their existing customers regarding other products and services that they offer. 
But it seems clear that in this instance, the approach that the staff member was trained to 
make was found by Mrs B to be upsetting. This could potentially have been because of 
assumptions that the staff member may have made about Mrs B that appear to sit outside 
the scripted approach, such as that Mrs B wasnt working. 
Upon consideration, I feel its possible that this may have been a clumsy attempt by the staff 
member to prompt Mrs B into revealing whether she was working, so that the staff member 
knew which branch of the scripted approach they should follow. But regardless of why the 
staff member upset Mrs B, the fact remains that the staff member did upset Mrs B.
However, Co-op have recognised this fact in their response to Mrs B, in which they clearly 
and specifically apologised for the distress that Mrs B had experienced when in branch.
Mrs B has explained that she wants Co-op to confirm that the staff member in question will 
receive training to make sure that something similar doesnt happen again. But Co-op also 
explained in their response to Mrs Bs complaint that the branch manager has been made 
aware of Mrs Bs feedback and has committed to ensuring that all branch staff members 
take that feedback on board and are more aware to the possible consequences that can 
occur following conversations such as the one between the staff member and Mrs B.
It isnt for this service to instruct Co-op to train its staff in a particular way as Mrs B would 
like. But I feel that Co-ops response to Mrs Bs complaint detailed in the preceding 
paragraph is fair and reasonable and achieves a similar outcome to that which Mrs B wants, 
in that the branch staff have been made aware of Mrs Bs distress so that greater care can 
be taken when engaging customers in similar conversations moving forwards.
Ultimately, in consideration of all the factors and circumstances of this complaint, including 
the distress experienced by Mrs B, I dont feel that Co-op need to do anything further here. 
In arriving at this position, Ive considered the clear upset and distress that Mrs B has 
experienced. But Ive also considered that the staff member in question appears to have 
been following a scripted approach required of them by Co-op. And while I accept that the 
staff member may not have executed the scripted approach somewhat poorly, I dont feel its 
likely that there was any deliberate or intentional malice in the actions of the staff member.
Accordingly, I feel that the response already issued by Co-op to Mrs Bs complaint, including 
the apology made by Co-op to Mrs B and the taking on board of Mrs Bs feedback by Co-op 
so that future similar conversations can be handled more appropriately, already represents a 
fair resolution to what happened here. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs B was wanting, but it follows from all the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Co-op to take any further action here. I hope 
Mrs B will understand, give what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman