DRN-3407134
The complaint
Mr M, a sole trader - on behalf of P, complains about a merchant services agreement taken 
out for a payment terminal with Takepayments Limited. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both P and Takepayments. I wont repeat 
in great detail what is already known to both parties. 
In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In May 2021 P took out a regulated hire agreement for a payment terminal with 
Takepayments. The agreement was scheduled to run for 12 months.
P installed the terminal on 8 June 2021. Takepayments say P was taking payments on the 
terminal until August 2021. Sometime afterwards, P ceased trading and asked 
Takepayments to end the agreement early. Takepayments declined this request.
P complained to Takepayments but they didnt uphold the complaint. P referred their 
complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our investigator considered this 
complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. P didnt accept their recommendations so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Im sorry to hear of the impact the COVID-19 pandemic has had on Ps operations. However, 
having carefully reviewed all of the evidence I dont uphold this complaint for the following 
main reasons:
 P entered into a legal agreement with Takepayments for a minimum period of 12 
months. Im satisfied that the minimum duration was sufficiently prominent on the 
paperwork completed at the time of sale. For example, on page one of the 
agreement it is stated: The goods are to be hired for a minimum period of 12 
months commencing on Delivery date; and
 The terms of the agreement also made it clear how the early termination charges 
would be calculated should P decide to end the agreement early; and
 Im satisfied that Takepayments has treated P fairly and in line with the agreement 
terms when they made a request to cancel their agreement early. 
Ive also noted that Takepayments have told our Service that they offered P the option of a 
new business owner take over the agreement and end the agreement in Mr Ms name. I 
consider this a fair and reasonable offer.
Whilst I understand Ps frustration, I dont find that Takepayments have done anything wrong 
here. My decision brings to an end what our Service  in trying to informally resolve this 
complaint, can do for P.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman