DRN-2705974
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the quality of a used car supplied to her under a hire purchase
agreement with Black Horse Limited (Black Horse).  
What happened
 Mrs C was supplied with a used car under a hire purchase agreement she entered into in
January 2019. The car was just over three years old and had a reading of 51,420 miles on
the odometer. The cash price of the car was £13,995. The car came with a warranty and
roadside assistance.
In February 2019 Mrs C had problems with one of the windows on the car. This was repaired
at no cost to her by the dealer (who I shall refer to as M) under her warranty.
In March 2019 Mrs C required roadside assistance because of a vibration she was feeling in
the car. The car was taken to M for repairs to the camber arms and a wheel realignment was
completed. Again these repairs were completed at no cost to Mrs C under the warranty she
took out with M.
In May 2019 Mrs C had to take the car to M as she said she was experiencing a loss of
power and the car had gone into limp mode. M was not able to find a fault with the car upon
testing it.
In July 2019 Mrs C called for roadside assistance again from M. She has said she was
experiencing a loss of power and the engine management light on the dashboard was
illuminating. The car was referred to Ms workshop where the warning light was linked to the
Ad Blue system. A software update was carried out and M said it road tested the car for 45
miles but didnt experience a loss of power during this time.
Mrs C complained to Black Horse at this point. She said she didnt trust the car any longer
given the experiences shed had with it losing power on busy roads. Mrs C told Black Horse
she wanted to reject the car and give it back. Black Horse apologised for the issues she had
with the car early on such as the faulty window and the vibration. But it said Mrs C could not
reject the car as no fault had been found which caused a loss of power. Black Horse offered
to pay Mrs C £150 for any distress and inconvenience the earlier issues had caused.
Mrs C said she continued to have problems with the car after this. In September 2019 she
required roadside assistance again because she said the car lost power. It was noted by M
that a rail pressure malfunction had been stored on the cars error log but when it was
brought into its workshop no faults were found.
Mrs C took the car to a separate garage in November 2019. The diagnostic run by the
garage identified a number of fault codes on the cars error log. These included the overhead
control panel, electric ignition switch, signal acquisition modules and collision prevention
assist.
Back Horse arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent engineer in December
2019. The engineer said the start/stop warning light was illuminated which could indicate that
it was not working properly. But he did not find any other faults and no loss of power was
experienced on a test drive. He recommended the car was plugged in to a manufacturer
diagnostic machine to identify the fault codes Mrs C said were uncovered by the separate
garage in November 2019.
M looked at the car again after this and ran a diagnostic test. It found similar fault codes
stored to those identified by the separate garage in November 2019. It said it carried out a
software update to rectify some of the issues identified by the diagnostic and replaced a
fuse. 
I issued a provisional decision in March 2021 explaining why I intended to uphold Miss Cs 
complaint. I said:
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where
appropriate) what I consider to have been industry practice at the relevant time.
Black Horse supplied the car to Mrs C under the hire purchase agreement. So, it is
responsible for a complaint about its quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. I believe that in a case
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances I should take into account would include
things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
The quality of goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, safety, and durability can be aspects of the
quality of goods.
Mrs C was supplied with a three year old car that had travelled around 54,000 miles and cost
less than it would have brand new. So, I dont think a reasonable person would expect the
same standard of quality as they would from a brand new car. The car was already worn,
was more likely to require maintenance and there was a greater risk parts could fail.
Its clear the car required work within the first few months of supply. M fixed the window
electronics, the front camber arms and the wheel alignment. These issues have not 
reoccurred however and there is no suggestion the repairs failed. The issues were fixed 
under warranty at no cost to Mrs C. So, I find any potential breach of contract in respect of 
these faults has already been redressed.
Ive thought about whether the car has experienced an intermittent loss of power. While no
garage has been able to find a fault with the car, there is still circumstantial evidence that
something is not right with it. Ms own records of the times it inspected the car confirm it
limped in on one occasion in May 2019 so the engineer must have seen the car was in limp
mode to have recorded this.
I also see no reason why Mrs C would have called out roadside assistance in September
2019 had the loss of power she has described not happened. Ms records also show on this
occasion the car had stored a rail pressure fault and the engineer obviously considered that
something warranted further investigation as he booked the car in to Ms workshop.
Furthermore, I find Mrs C has been clear and consistent in her testimony. She has said shelost trust in the car when the issue kept happening and I can see that she has hardly used
the car over the last year or so. I dont think Mrs C would have resorted to such measures
had these incidents of loss of power not occurred. Mrs C has stated how much she loved the
car and I believe her when she says it pains her to feel like she cannot use it.
I recognise that no one who has inspected or tested the car has been able to reproduce the
fault or get to the bottom of what might be causing it. But this doesnt mean it isnt
happening. From the evidence Ive seen I find, on balance, the car has suffered from an
intermittent loss of power.
This doesnt automatically mean Mrs C can reject the car however. I still need to consider
whether the presence of the fault meant the car was of satisfactory quality or not.
The first record of the car losing power is in May 2019, four months after it was supplied to
Mrs C. The car had travelled around 1,200 miles by this point. Ive explained already that a
reasonable person wouldnt have the same expectations as they would with a brand new
car. But I also think they would expect a car that is only three years old and that cost almost
£14,000 to remain safe to drive for a reasonable period of time. Safety is one aspect of
satisfactory quality and I think the intermittent and random nature of the car losing power
made it unsafe to drive  in breach of the implied term relating to satisfactory quality.
Ive also considered how long it took before Mrs C started experiencing the problems with
loss of power. The CRA sets out in section 19 (14) that:
goods which do not conform to the contract at any time within the period of six
months beginning with the day on which the goods were delivered to the consumer
must be taken not to have conformed to it on that day.
So, in this case, given the loss of power first occurred within four months, I believe that
whatever was wrong with Mrs Cs car would be taken to be wrong with it at the point of
supply. That is unless section 19 (15) applies, which states:
Subsection (14) does not apply if
(a)it is established that the goods did conform to the contract on that day, or
(b)its application is incompatible with the nature of the goods or with how they fail to
conform to the contract.
I recognise that Black Horse and M made their best endeavours to try and find a fault with
the car. Ive not however seen enough evidence to make me think the car did in fact conform
to contract at the point of supply. Although the evidence provided by Black Horse shows that
a fault relating to the loss of power could not be found on each occasion it was looked at, Im
still persuaded from the other evidence Ive seen that the car was intermittently losing power
throughout this period. And seeing as the problem was intermittent, its plausible the problem
didnt present itself straight away after Mrs C was supplied with the car. So overall, on the 
balance of probabilities, I do not find the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied 
to Mrs C.
In putting things right Ive given consideration to the fact that no one has been able to get to
the bottom of what is causing the issue with Mrs Cs car since May 2019. I think the timetaken to repair is already beyond reasonable and has caused significant inconvenience to
Mrs C. I dont find any further attempts at repair in this case would be appropriate or
reasonable. With this is in mind, I find the fair and reasonable thing to do here is allow Mrs C
to reject the car, give it back to Black Horse, end her finance agreement and return her
deposit.
Mrs C has said shes hardly used the car since August 2019. The mileage on the car was
53,822 when it was taken in to Ms workshop for a road test at the end of July 2019. On 11
December 2019 it was 55,051 and it is now 55,164. I recognise some of this mileage will
have been driven by the various garages that have tested the car but it looks like Mrs C has
had some use of the car after August 2019. With that said however only 113 miles have
been driven since 11 December 2019 (Ive seen recent evidence of the odometer and Im
satisfied this is the case).
I find Mrs Cs reluctance to use the car was because of a legitimate concern for her and her
familys safety. And, given the conclusions Ive reached about the fault here, I dont think she
acted unreasonably by not driving it during this period. I find it would be fair therefore to
refund all payments Mrs C has made under the hire purchase agreement from January 2020
until the date of settlement for loss of use. There were other times Mrs C was without her car
while M or other garages examined it. Im satisfied however that she was provided with a
courtesy car and kept mobile so I dont require Black Horse to refund the payments she
made during these times.
I dont think it would be unreasonable to say in this case that Mrs Cs use of the car has
been impaired by the problems she has had with it since February 2019 and shes had to
spend considerable time driving courtesy cars which were not what she was paying for. I find
it fair that Black Horse refunds 10% of the payments Mrs C has made towards the vehicle for
impaired use.
Mrs C has said she has been paying for tax and insurance on the car despite not using it. I
think Mrs C has been clear that she wanted to reject the car since at least August 2019.
Since Ive concluded that Black Horse should have let her do this and that she most likely
stopped using the car in January 2020, I think it would be fair for Black Horse to reimburse
Mrs C for these costs from January 2020 to the date of settlement. Ive seen evidence of
them and evidence of payment by Mrs C so Im persuaded they are genuine losses.
It will cost Mrs C £60 to cancel her current insurance policy. Black Horse should pay this to
Mrs C also, although I find it reasonable if Black Horse wants to make this conditional upon
receipt of evidence of it being paid.
Mrs C says she also paid £350 for a set of alloy wheels shortly after she acquired the car.
Mrs C will have had some use of these  although nowhere near as much as she would
have liked. I recognise this isnt necessarily Mrs Cs fault but I dont find it would be fair to
require Black Horse to reimburse Mrs C for these given how long they have been on the car
now.
Mrs C has clearly been caused distress and inconvenience by the problems shes had with
the car. I accept it will have been distressing when the car dropped down to 30 miles per
hour on a motorway. And, it will have been inconvenient to Mrs C going backwards and
forwards to garages. Black Horse already offered to pay Mrs C £150 compensation for
distress and inconvenience because of the earlier issues she experienced with the car.
Overall, I think £250 is fair compensation for everything that has happened.
Black Horse did not respond to my provisional decision before the deadline I set for both 
parties.  Mrs C said she had suffered additional losses to those I asked Black Horse to pay her in my 
provisional decision. In summary this included:
£150 for an experts opinion.
£400 for a GAP insurance policy taken out with M.
An extra £20 for road tax for the year 2021/22.
Costs for a service and diagnostic.
£61 for two MOTs 
Mrs C also said, in summary:
she stopped using the car in July 2019 and the additional mileage was carried out by 
her husband trying to replicate the fault and keep it running to stop it seizing up. And 
also the garages that tested it. 
She was disappointed with a 10% refund of monthly payments for impaired use as 
the car was in the garage.
The whole issue had caused her considerable distress and inconvenience.  
I contacted Black Horse on 22 March 2021 explaining that I intended to ask it to pay some of 
these additional costs to Mrs C. Again, it did not respond before the deadline I set it. 
The complaint has therefore been passed back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have re-reviewed Mrs Cs complaint. Ive not been provided with any new comments or 
evidence from Black Horse that make me think my provisional findings are not fair or 
reasonable. So, I still uphold Mrs Cs complaint and for the same reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision (and set out in the what happened section of this decision). 
I turn now to the additional comments and evidence Mrs C has supplied us since my 
provisional decision. 
Mrs C is disappointed with the date Ive said she reasonably stopped using the car and the 
amount Ive asked Black Horse to refund for impaired use. She has said that she stopped 
using the car in July/August 2019 so she should receive a refund of her monthly payments 
from then onwards rather than January 2020. The mileage on the car in July 2019 was 
around 53,600 and in January 2020 it was around 55,000. I accept this was less than what 
would reasonably be considered average use for a car. But 1,4000 miles is still fair usage 
and seems more than just test drives and keeping the car ticking over. Its not easy to say 
exactly when Mrs C stopped using the car but I still think January 2020 is the fairest point 
given the mileage on the car barely increased after this. 
I appreciate also that Mrs C feels she was without the car for long periods of time. But shes 
not said she wasnt kept mobile with a courtesy car during this time. I think 10% fairly reflects 
the fact the courtesy cars she was provided may not have been the same spec as the car 
she had and the impaired use she suffered when she was actually driving the car. 
Ive thought carefully whether Mrs C should be paid the cost of the expert report she 
obtained. When our investigator spoke to the engineer he said he didnt drive the car on the day he inspected it and didnt run any diagnostic tests. And from the way the report reads to 
me, I dont get the impression that the inspection was particularly detailed. For example the 
report sets out a history of the car including when it was looked at (presumably having been 
told this by Mrs C). It then concludes the current condition of this vehicle renders it unfit for 
purpose. This vehicle was, in my opinion, not of merchantable quality at the point of sale. 
The report does not give any detail as to what the inspector found that led him to make this 
conclusion, or even what he looked at in the car. The impression I get is that the conclusion 
was based largely on the history of events that Mrs C had described rather than any detailed 
examination of the car. 
I know its not necessarily Mrs Cs fault but for these reasons, I dont think it would be fair to 
ask Black Horse to pay the cost of the report to Mrs C because it didnt really add anything 
meaningful to her complaint.
Mrs C has asked for the costs of a service and two MOTs. But Ive not been provided with 
evidence of these costs or that they were paid so I cannot reasonably ask Black Horse to 
pay them to Mrs C.   
Mrs C has provided additional evidence of tax and insurance costs for the year 2021/22. Ive 
explained already that I think its fair that Black Horse pay these kind of costs from the period 
Mrs C justifiably chose to stop using the car onwards having already asked to reject the car 
before this. So, I think its fair that Black Horse pay her these too. 
Ive seen evidence that Mrs C took out a GAP insurance policy via M that was paid for 
upfront. Ive not seen anything that makes me think she is using this for any other purpose, 
and given the nature of this kind of policy I doubt this would be possible anyway. So, I think 
she has lost out because she paid for the policy with the intention that it would cover her for 
the full term of the agreement but shes only received one year of benefit before she 
justifiably stopped using the car. Mrs C did get some use from the policy during the period 
she was driving the car so it wouldnt be fair for her to receive the full cost of this back. Black 
Horse should therefore pay Mrs C the cost of the policy pro rata from January 2020, plus any 
early cancellation fees, less any refund received by Mrs C for early cancellation. Black Horse 
may reasonably request evidence from Mrs C that the policy has been cancelled (if this is 
possible). 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
To put things right Black Horse Limited must:
End Mrs Cs finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mrs C;
refund Mrs Cs deposit of £1,601;
refund all monthly payments made under the agreement from January 2020 until 
the date of settlement for loss of use;
refund 10% of payments made between February 2019 and January 2020 
for impaired use;
pay Mrs C £449.91 for the cost of her insurance policy for the year January 2020 
 January 2021.
pay Mrs C the cost of her insurance from January 2021 until the date of 
settlement, plus any cancellation fee for doing so, less any pro-rata refund she may 
receive for early cancellation; pay Mrs C £20 for the cost of her annual road tax in January 2020 and a pro-rata 
refund of the tax she paid in January 2021 to the date of settlement, less any refund 
for early cancellation;
pay Mrs C the cost of the GAP insurance policy pro rata from January 2020 until the 
date of settlement, plus any fee for early cancellation, less any refund received for 
early settlement;
pay Mrs C interest of 8% simple per year on all of the above refunds from the 
date each payment was made by Mrs C to the date of settlement*;
remove the finance agreement from Mrs Cs credit file, and;
pay Mrs C compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
her**.   
*If Black Horse Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
**Black Horse Limited must pay this compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mrs C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman