DRN-3675304
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt accept his 
identification when he visited a branch to close an account.
What happened
Mr B holds several different accounts with Virgin Money, including passbook account. He 
visited a branch with the intention of closing his passbook account but was told he would 
need to provide photographic identification. Mr B says he has carried out transactions 
previously in a different branch using his customer identification and elements of his 
password, but this wasnt accepted. He says he offered other forms of identification such as 
evidence of his other accounts, but this wasnt accepted. He says as the visit to the branch 
was solely to close his account, not being able to do so caused him inconvenience. He 
thought it wrong that different branches had different approaches to customer identification.
Virgin Money issued a final response letter dated 24 June 2022. It said that the account 
terms said that Mr B would need the right identification when taking money out in branch. It 
said that it wasnt able to facilitate Mr Bs request to close his passbook account in branch on 
25 April as the identification Mr B provided didnt meet its requirements. It said the branch 
offered Mr B the option of completing a transaction request form to avoid a further visit to 
branch but Mr B didnt wish to do this. It said it was the branchs discretion if they agree any 
exception to its terms, but this isnt something it was required to do or could guarantee would 
happen.
Mr B didnt agree with Virgin Moneys response and referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted the role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service and said he couldnt require Virgin Money to reconsider its security requirements to 
access accounts and services in branch. He noted the frustration Mr B suffered when he 
wasnt able to close his account, but he didnt think that Virgin Money had done anything 
wrong by requesting the documents it did.  
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that when he opened his account 
there was no reference made in the terms and conditions for photographic evidence to be 
provided in order to conduct a transaction in branch. He said that Virgin Money should have 
standardised processes and not have branches working on their own discretion in regard to 
security processes. He said although he didnt have photographic identification when he 
visited the branch, he did provide other evidence to confirm his identity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how frustrating Mr B has found his experience of trying to close his passbook 
account and I note his comment about the need for a standardised process. As our 
investigator has explained it isnt our role to tell Virgin Money what security systems it needs 
to have in place but instead to assess whether the Virgin Money did something wrong when 
dealing with Mr Bs request and whether it treated him fairly.
I understand that Mr B made a trip to the branch specifically to close one of his accounts and 
so can appreciate that he felt inconvenienced when he wasnt able to complete this task. 
However, having looked at the account terms and conditions these say that the right 
identification is needed to withdraw money. There is then a list of what identification is 
acceptable. As Mr B didnt have the required documentation with him, I do not find I can say 
that Virgin Money did anything wrong by not actioning his request. 
I appreciate that Mr B offered other forms of identification, but Virgin Money has a list of 
acceptable identification documents and this list notes that the documents must be original 
or fully certified. As the other identification offered by Mr B didnt meet the requirements I do 
not find Virgin Money was wrong not to accept this.
I note the comment Mr B has made about being able to use different sources to identify 
himself in a different branch but as the standard requirements were requested in branch 
when he asked to close his account, I cannot say that the branch did anything wrong. Virgin 
Money has said that branches can use discretion and I appreciate the comments that Mr B 
has made about this. But I also accept that there is a standard approach and list of 
acceptable forms of identification and as this is the approach taken when Mr B asked to 
close his account, I do not find I can say this was wrong or that Mr B was treated unfairly.
Mr B was offered the option of completing a form to prevent the need to visit a branch again 
which shows Virgin Money did try to assist him and mitigate the inconvenience he had 
experienced.
In conclusion, while I understand the points Mr B has made, as I do not find that Virgin 
Money did anything wrong in this case nor treated Mr B unfairly, I do not find I am able to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman