DRN-2062418
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC, trading as Yorkshire Bank, mis-sold her a 
current account as she wasnt told there would be a monthly fee of £6 for having an 
arranged overdraft. She also complains about the way that she was spoken to during a call 
to the bank. 
What happened
In 2013, Mrs B transferred her current account to one which had features she felt would 
benefit her. It had a monthly fee of £15, which was later reduced to £7.50.
In 2014, Yorkshire Bank made some changes to the overdraft fees and interest charges on 
its current accounts. This included the introduction of an arranged overdraft fee of £6 a 
month. It sent a mailing to all its customers to notify them two months before these changes 
came into effect.
 
In February 2020, Mrs B called the bank to cancel some direct debits and request an 
increase to her overdraft limit. The representative she spoke with explained the fees and 
interest that would apply to the overdraft. This included the £6 fee.
Mrs B complained. She said that, although she was aware that there was a fee of £7.50 for 
the account, she thought that this was for using the overdraft. She thought that shed been 
mis-sold the account as she wasnt told that there would also be a £6 fee for the arranged 
overdraft. She hadnt received any letter about this. Mrs B also said that she felt the 
representative shed spoken to when she asked to increase her overdraft limit had been rude 
and abrupt.
 
Yorkshire Bank apologised as it said its representative could have handled the call better 
and didnt speak to Mrs B in the manner it expected. It made her a payment of £30 for the 
upset this caused her. 
But it didnt agree that Mrs B had been mis-sold the current account as the arranged 
overdraft fee hadnt been in place at the time she opened it, so she couldnt have been told 
about it then. It said all customers had been given written notice before this fee was 
introduced. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He initially said that he felt Mrs Bs 
complaint was about a variation the terms of the account rather that it being mis-sold to her, 
as it related about changes to the terms of her account after it was already in place. And the 
investigator said that the terms and conditions of the account said that the bank could make 
changes to fees and charges as long as 30 days notice was given. He said that while it was 
unfortunate that Mrs B didnt receive the notification letter Yorkshire Bank had sent, he didnt 
think it had made any error as the charges had also been detailed on Mrs Bs monthly 
statements and the information about them could be found online. 
However, Yorkshire Bank hadnt provided the investigator with the recording of the call 
Mrs B had also complained about. The investigator felt that this caused material 
inconvenience as Mrs B hadnt had the opportunity to have this aspect of her complaint 
assessed. He said the bank should pay Mrs B an additional amount of £150 in compensation 
for this.
Yorkshire Bank responded to say that it had mis-understood which call the investigator had 
meant when hed asked for it. And it sent him the call recording to review.
The investigator did this and said that he felt the £30 offered by Yorkshire Bank was fair and 
reasonable for the way that the call had been handled.
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings. She felt she should receive a refund of the £6 
charges that had been applied as she hadnt received the letter from Yorkshire Bank when it 
was introduced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I see it, Mrs Bs complaint is about two main points: that she didnt receive any 
notification and so wasnt aware that a £6 arranged overdraft fee had been introduced on her 
account from December 2014; and about the way she was spoken to during a call to the 
bank when she cancelled some direct debits and asked to increase her overdraft limit.
The £6 arranged overdraft fee
The terms and conditions of Mrs Bs accounts set out when it may make changes to charges 
and interest rates:
3.10.4 We may change our day to day charges or introduce a new charge if at any time 
there is a change (or we reasonably expect that there will be a change):
(a) in the costs we incur in providing the Account (including funding costs if relevant); or
(b) in Regulatory Requirements.
3.10.5 Changes to charges will respond proportionately to changes in our costs.
3.10.6 If we provide a new service or facility in connection with an account, we may 
introduce a new charge for providing you with that service or facility.
And, in relation to notification of these changes:
3.10.13 (c) to Managed Rates or charges applying to overdrafts, or to introduce a new 
charge applying to overdrafts, for which we will give you at least 30 days Personal Notice.
Ive also considered the letter sent out to customers in September 2014, which detailed the 
introduction of this charge from December 2014. This said that a monthly planned usage fee 
for using the overdraft limit would apply if the customers ended any business day overdrawn 
by more than £25. This £25 buffer was also introduced at this time. This letter set out that 
the £7.50 monthly fee for the current account would still apply. 
I appreciate that Mrs B didnt receive this notification letter. But I dont think this in itself 
means that the charges should be refunded to her or were applied inappropriately. This letter 
was to give notice of the changes being introduced. But there was other information 
available to Mrs B to let her know what fees were being applied to her account.  Yorkshire Bank has told us that a summary of the monthly fees and debit interest applying to 
an account is sent to its customers along with their monthly statement. Ive seen a copy of 
this for Mrs Bs account and it shows a breakdown of the £6 monthly planned usage fee and 
the £7.50 member-account fee. The letter also shows when they would be debited, and 
these then show on the statement of transactions. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Yorkshire Bank should be required to refund 
these fees to Mrs B, when they have been applied in accordance with the account terms and 
conditions. 
The call with Yorkshire Banks representative
Ive listened to the provided recording of this call, and I can appreciate that Mrs B was left 
feeling that the representative had spoken to her in a rude and abrupt manner. Yorkshire 
Bank has apologised for this and has said it would credit Mrs Bs account with £30 to 
recognise the distress this caused her. Overall, I think this represents a fair resolution to this 
aspect of her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that Clydesdale Bank PLC, trading as Yorkshire Bank, has already paid Mrs B 
fair compensation for her complaint about the way she was spoken to by its representative. I 
dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint about the notification of the introduction of the arranged 
overdraft fee. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman