DRN-4167423
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc paid a charge to a property management company 
and applied the cost to his mortgage account. This was despite him telling it hed already 
made the payment.
What happened
Mr B was in dispute with a management company about charges related to the security 
property. In late 2022 solicitors acting for the management company contacted Santander 
and asked it to settle the outstanding charges. 
Mr B says he paid the charges and provided evidence to Santander of the payment. He then 
discovered that Santander had also paid the charges and applied the costs to Mr Bs 
mortgage account.
Santander said it didnt know Mr B had paid the charge. It had been told by the solicitor 
acting for the management company it hadnt been paid. Santander said it made the 
payment because its security was at risk.
Our investigator said Santander acted on the information provided to it. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said the solicitors acting for the management company agreed to 
refund the overpayment. But Mr B says it should be refunded to where it came from (by 
which I think he means the mortgage account). Mr B also says he shouldnt have to pay the 
management companys legal fees. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must be clear that I am only looking into Santanders actions here. I have no power to look 
into or make findings about the management company or the solicitors instructed by the 
management company. I cant look into Mr Bs concerns as to whether has to pay the 
solicitors fees.
I should also explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
The mortgage terms and conditions give Santander the right, in certain circumstances, to 
make payments and apply the cost to the mortgage account. 
Santander received a letter in November 2022 from solicitors acting for the management 
company. It received an invoice in December 2022 and further letters in 2023. These letters 
were about outstanding service charges and fees (of about £1,600) related to the security 
property.
In early February 2023 Santander wrote to Mr B asking him to sort the matter out with the 
management company. It wrote to Mr B on 18 March 2023 responding to his complaint and 
confirming what it had told him on a call the previous day: that if the amount claimed by the 
management company wasnt settled by 21 March 2023 it would make the payment and add 
it to his mortgage balance.
Mr B paid about £1,100 to the management company on 19 March 2023. He sent an email 
to Santander saying hed made the payment. His emails to Santander attached a copy of the 
invoice, an email hed sent to the management company and confirmation of the payment to 
Santander.
Santander received a letter dated 22 March 2023 from the solicitor. This said they had not 
received payment in the sum of £1,600 from Mr B. Santander called the solicitor on 24 
March 2023 and was told the balance was still outstanding. Santander made the payment.
Mr B says hes found out that it can take up to seven working days for the solicitors acting for 
the management company to update an account after receiving payment. This could be why 
the solicitor told Santander it hadnt received the payment. Or it could be that this was 
because Mr B paid about £1,100 and the amount the solicitor said was owed was about 
£1,600.
Did Santander make an error when it made the payment?
Santander considers it a threat to its security if it receives a section 121 notice and transfer 
deed expressing a right of re-entry. This was substantially what happened here  although 
the solicitors were relying on a statutory right to re-possess the property. 
Santander made Mr B aware that if he didnt sort out the matter or make the payment by 
21 March 2023, it would make the payment and add it to his account. 
Mr B says he sent evidence to Santander that hed made the payment. Santander says it 
only received the invoice, so it does seem that it failed to record receiving the other items 
Mr B attached to his email. 
However, Santander called the solicitor to check if the payment had been received 
immediately before making the payment. It wouldnt have known if the information it was 
given was out of date. Taking all of the circumstances into account, I dont think it was wrong 
or unfair for Santander to make the payment.
It follows that I dont think its fair to require Santander to refund the mortgage account for 
the payment it made to the management company, or the £70 administration charge. 
Mr B said the management company had said it would refund the money, but he says it 
should be refunded to where it came from  his mortgage account. He feels hes stuck 
between Santander and the management company.
I appreciate Mr Bs frustration, but its the management company that has the money, not 
Santander. Hell need to discuss how the refund is paid with the management company. 
Mr B could accept the refund from the management company and pay it into the mortgage 
account himself, if thats what he wants to do. Mr B should speak to Santander about 
arranging the payment and check that no early repayment charge would be applied to the 
payment. 
Whether the management company is entitled to require Mr B to pay its legal fees is also a 
matter hell need to take up with the management company.  My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman