DRN-4150117
The complaint
Mr A complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against him without due cause. He wants the marker removed. 
What happened
In December 2021, Starling received an application purportedly from Mr A. They completed 
their usual searches and discovered the bank statements which had been submitted as part 
of the application process to show proof of address appeared to have been falsified. This 
was on the basis of multiple errors within the document, as well as formatting errors which 
led them to the conclusion the statement had likely been doctored. They decided to decline 
the application, and refer the matter to Cifas who registered a fraud prevention marker 
against Mr A. Specifically, they recorder a marker for false application. 
Mr A said that he: 
had not made the application, nor was he aware that the application was being 
made; 
never submitted the falsified bank statements as part of this or any application; 
only held one UK account, and it was not with the bank that the statement purported 
to be from; 
had sold his phone through his cousin who was living with him and did not fully 
remove his personal data from his device and thinks this could have allowed 
someone to obtain the information needed to complete this application. The device 
was logged into his email address which contained photos of his residence permit 
and passport, along with other personal data; 
Mr A complained to Starling, who reviewed what had happened and declined to remove the 
Cifas marker. They said that in addition to the personal information provided at the time of 
the application, Mr A submitted video identification which matched the ID submitted. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr A complained to our service and one of our investigators 
looked into what had happened. Our investigator initially recommended that the complaint 
not be upheld as there was no evidence that Mr A had sold his phone, or that someone else 
had gained access to his personal information, and he was most compelled by the video 
evidence that Starling provided from the application. 
Mr A was not happy with our investigators opinion on the matter. In summary, he said: 
the person in the video was not him, it was his cousin who looked like him; 
he decided to file a complaint with the police about what his cousin had done, but the 
police declined to register it as a crime as they could not act on it due to the passage 
of time and the lack of financial loss; 
he sold the phone through his cousin, and was paid in cash, so it was to be expected 
that he was not able to evidence that he sold the phone; 
he had sent off his residence permit around the time the application was made so he 
could not have had the original with him when someone tried to open the account. 
They must instead have used photos of them which had been stored on his old 
phone/in his email account; 
whoever tried to open an account was not successful so he was unclear why this 
would be deemed a crime; 
Starling never tried to contact him such as via his mobile number to confirm whether 
he was making the application; 
the falsified bank statement was not a Starling statement so he does not understand 
why they are allowed to register a Cifas marker relating to it. 
Mr A also provided our service with a series of photos which he said were of him, and of his 
cousin. He explained that the marker meant he had lost his job and he was struggling to gain 
access to banking facilities. 
Our investigator considered the new evidence and initially suggested that the photos and 
video could be of two different people, and that there was a point of compromise for his 
personal details due to selling his phone. However, after receiving further information and 
photos, our investigator felt on balance that there was not enough evidence to say that Mr 
As cousin was responsible for the application. They said that the photos and videos could 
well be of the same person, and that had the application been successful the information 
and card would have been sent to Mr A as all of his correct phone, email and address details 
had been used in the application. 
Mr A remained dissatisfied, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am reaching the same conclusion as our investigator did, and for broadly 
the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
The marker that Starling applied is for application fraud. For Starling to record this it is 
expected to demonstrate that it had clear, relevant and rigorous evidence to show that in the 
course of an application process, Mr A submitted one or more material falsehoods, for the 
purpose of obtaining a benefit. They do not have to show that a fraud or financial crime has 
been committed say, beyond reasonable doubt. But they must demonstrate that there are 
sufficient grounds to believe a financial crime was committed or attempted  mere suspicion 
or concern is not enough. 
It is not in dispute that the bank statements that were submitted as part of the application in 
December 2021 were not genuine. Mr A says he has never banked with the bank in 
question, and so the bank statements that purport to be his could not be genuine. So, it is 
clear that the person who made the application must have knowingly submitted documents 
which amounted to material falsehoods, in order to gain the benefit of an account. This was 
no innocent mistake by the person making the application, and so this element of the 
grounds for registering a Cifas is satisfied. 
The matter that is in dispute here is whether it was Mr A who made the application which 
included the fraudulent documents, or whether it was his cousin. I have carefully considered 
this matter, and having done so I think it is more likely than not that Mr A did make the 
application himself. I say this because: 
Having carefully examined the photographs and video, I am not persuaded that there 
are two different people in them. This service is an informal service, and I do not 
purport to be an expert in facial recognition, but I think that Starling fairly concluded 
that the person in the video was the same person in the identification that were provided in the application. The faces appear to my eye to be the same face, and 
there are multiple areas which are the same including the eye shape, facial shape, 
nose shape, hairline and facial hair. Whilst some of the photos and the video show 
someone with skin complaints, these can appear worse on different days or in 
different lights or photographs so I do not think this is conclusive. And Mr A was 
unable to provide a photo of him with his cousin, or anything else to satisfy me that 
there are two different men in the images. 
The application contained Mr As genuine information including his email, address, 
and phone number. It would seem strange for Mr As cousin to use all of Mr As 
genuine contact details as if he had been successful in fraudulently opening an 
account in Mr As name, it would not have remained hidden from Mr A for long. The 
card would have been sent to Mr As address, and any communication that came 
with it would have been sent to Mr As genuine details. It seems an unnecessary risk 
for Mr As cousin to take if he were the one making the application here. 
Whilst Mr A said his residence permit was with the DVLA at the time of the 
application, this simply means a photo would have been used by whomever made 
the application whether this was him or his cousin. So, this does not change my 
opinion here. 
Mr A has made numerous points about the quality of the evidence Starling are willing 
to accept, including digital copies of documents, and photos of identification. It is not 
for me to determine how Starling conduct their business, my role here is to decide on 
this specific case. 
So, having considered all of the evidence available to me, I think it was fair for Starling to 
attribute the application to Mr A. As there is no dispute that the application contained 
fraudulent documentation, it follows that I think it is fair and reasonable that Starling 
registered the Cifas marker against Mr A for application fraud, and as such I will not be 
asking them to remove the marker or do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman