DRN-3470911
The complaint
Miss S seeks to recover around £15,000 from HSBC UK Bank Plc, which was stolen from
her bank account in 2019 as the result of an investment scam.
What happened
Miss S fell victim to a scam in mid-2019, perpetrated by a firm claiming to offer profits by
trading cryptocurrency. This outfit, called Pro Capital Markets, convinced Miss S to install
applications and software onto her computer that gave them remote access to the device.
Miss S allowed this on the basis that her trading account would be set up so that she could
begin the investment venture. Later that month, Miss S made a series of payments to what
she thought was her trading account. Including, one card payment using her HSBC account
on 24 May 2019 for £399.11 (the other payments were made using accounts elsewhere).
Shortly after making these initial investments, Miss S became worried that she couldnt get
back the money shed paid in. She had made withdrawal requests, but Miss S was noticing
that her contacts at Pro Capital Markets were making excuses about her ability to take
money out of her account, along with dodging her emails and calls. Because of this, Miss S
got in touch with HSBC on 13 June 2019 to ask the bank to help her. Miss S says she told
HSBC over the phone that she was having difficulty with the £399.11 card payment.
Its not entirely clear how the bank reacted to this. Miss S says she raised the payment as
being fraudulent  but HSBC disagrees. The bank says that, rather than claiming shed fallen
victim to a scam, Miss S wanted to dispute a payment to a genuine firm on the grounds of
goods not received. In other words, Miss S didnt mention that shed been the victim of fraud.
Either way, Miss S didnt get a resolution to her dispute from HSBC by 17 June 2019, when
Pro Capital Markets got back in touch in response to her withdrawal requests. At this point,
Miss S was told she could withdraw her available balance within her trading account  but
she would need to follow certain instructions and set up an account with AAA Trade in order
to facilitate this.
Miss S was under the impression that AAA Trade was part of Pro Capital Markets and so
she permitted the scammers remote access to her computer so that she could receive her
investment back. But in fact, the scammers were actually paying money out of Miss Ss
HSBC account, into their own account(s). The use of AAA trade was merely a guise to get
Miss S to make card payments to AAA Trade as an intermediary, so that her money could
then be stolen.
To execute these payments, Miss S unwittingly passed over certain passcodes that HSBC
sent to her in text messages. She did so because she thought that this was necessary so
her money would be returned to her account. When in truth, the scammers were
manipulating Miss S to share this information so that her money could be stolen using the
remote access and security credentials she had passed over to set up her trading account.
Whats more, the scammers also took out lending in Miss Ss name, consisting of an
£11,000 loan with HSBC.
Miss S says she was unaware of all of this. She accepts that she revealed passcodes that
were sent by HSBC  but she was unclear what these were actually for at the time. As she
remembers it, Pro Capital Markets justified the number of passcodes by telling her that these
were a result of a system problem at HSBCs end. She was assured that this was normal
and that she was only giving over the passcodes in order to get her withdrawal.
Miss S became aware of what happened shortly after payments were made out of her
account on 17 June 2019. Upon being told by HSBC that she had lost all of her savings and
taken on a host of debt, Miss S complained that the bank ought to have done more to protect
her. HSBC declined her refund request, on the basis that she had allowed certain access to
her security details and HSBC online banking facility. Miss S was also told she needed to
repay the HSBC loan.
Unhappy with this, Miss S brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators
thought that HSBC shouldve noticed there was something untoward taking place with
Miss Ss account and intervened when the fourth card payment was made on 17 June 2019.
In her view, this transaction in the sequence of payments stood out as uncharacteristic
compared to her usual spending patterns.
However, under the circumstances, our investigator wasnt convinced that the bank stepping
in at this point wouldve made a difference to whether the subsequent payments went ahead.
So, our investigator didnt ask HBSC to return any of the disputed transactions. HSBC
agrees with this assessment.
Miss S does not agree. She argues that any intervention from HSBC wouldve revealed that
she was being scammed and she couldve prevented her loss. Even more so, because she
thought money was coming back to her and she had absolutely no idea about the loan.
Because Miss S disagrees, the case has been escalated to me to decide.
Provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 21 April 2022. I have copied the findings 
and redress sections of my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach a different conclusion to that of our investigator. 
The primary reason for doing so is on the basis of information that was provided by 
HSBC following our investigators assessment.
information received since our investigators assessment
Its always been common ground between the parties that Miss S contacted the bank on
13 June 2019 to ask for help with a payment shed made the previous month. I asked 
HSBC to provide further details about what exactly was raised by Miss S at this time.
HSBC submitted that its unclear what discussion was had, as the call recording is no 
longer available. But notwithstanding the phone conversation, Miss S also emailed the 
banks disputes team the same day with supporting information. It's the contents of 
these emails which I've placed emphasis on when reaching my provisional findings.Miss S forwarded an email chain that her and Pro Capital Markets had exchanged in 
May 2019, at the time of making payments to what she thought was her trading 
account. The messages clearly show that the agent(s) of this firm had told Miss S to 
provide a host of personal information to open her trading account. Including, her photo 
ID, proof of address and details of her HSBC bank card.
Its evident from the emails that Miss S provided this information. Also, one of the more
recent emails from Pro Capital Markets specifically asked Miss S to download an 
application called AnyDesk. This softwares purpose was to grant remote access to 
Miss Ss computer, so that Pro Capital Markets could control the device remotely.
relevant considerations
HSBC will be aware that there are some situations where we believe that banks  taking 
into account relevant rules, codes and best practice  ought to have been on alert or 
notice that something wasnt right or should have looked at the wider circumstances 
surrounding a consumers account. So, Ive looked into what this means for this case 
and whether HSBC should have done more to prevent the payments made on 17 June 
2019, in light of the information Miss S had made it aware of four days prior.
First of all, the email correspondence Miss S shared with HSBC clearly showed that she 
had paid money into a so-called trading account. While AnyDesk itself is a genuine 
outfit that is legitimately used across many industries, I cannot ignore that HSBC was 
presented with documentary evidence that a supposed investment venture was asking 
for remote access to a consumers computer.
As a bank that often sees all types of fraud, Im satisfied that the mention of remote 
access, in the context of an investment where money couldnt be withdrawn, ought to 
have made it apparent to HSBC that this had the hallmarks of an array of common and 
well-known scams. Without a doubt, its very unlikely that a genuine investment scheme 
would ask a consumer to download an application that gave it the ability to control their 
computer remotely.
I accept that it may not have been immediately apparent to HSBC that Miss S wished to
dispute the payment on the grounds of fraud, based on the phone call alone. On 
account of the evidence, it seems that Miss S didnt even realise at the time that 
something fraudulent was happening. Therefore, Ive thought carefully about what 
HSBC ought fairly and reasonably to have done under these circumstances.
Ive borne in mind that theres a balance to be struck between identifying payment 
disputes between legitimate merchants and consumers where there is no risk of fraud, 
and those where the merchants or beneficiaries themselves are operating a scam. I 
also consider that the systems and procedures HSBC puts in place to manage those 
competing demands are a matter for the bank.
Nevertheless, the relevant standards and regulations  plus good industry practice  
indicate that a bank does have a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud 
and scams so far as reasonably possible. HSBC ultimately has to make decisions 
based on the information its given by customers. And I find its neither unfair nor 
unreasonable to expect a bank to double-check disputed transactions when presented 
with information that ought reasonably to trigger concerns of fraud, or other risks of 
financial harm.After all, if a bank is put on notice that there are suspicions of illicit activity, as the 
financial professionals, it is up to bank staff to find out enough information about whats 
happened in order to make an informed decision  and do so as quickly as possible.
Besides, HSBC didnt need to know for certain whether Miss S was dealing with a 
fraudulent cryptocurrency trader or investing in a legitimate product; reasonable 
grounds for suspicion are enough to trigger a banks obligations under the various 
regulations and good practice.
In addition to concerns about payments already made out of Miss Ss account, the 
emails demonstrated that Pro Capital Markets had a whole host of personal information 
for Miss S. HSBC were therefore presented with a consumer that was at real risk of 
financial harm from, amongst other things, identify theft. So, once in receipt of this 
information, Im minded to find that HSBC ought to have been alive to the threat of 
further misuse of Miss Ss account.
To that end, I believe there were reasonable grounds for HSBC to pause further activity 
on Miss Ss account while it asked her for accompanying information. HSBC is 
permitted to temporarily suspend account movements (including card transactions and 
applications for lending) to avoid precisely this sort of situation. I think it would have 
been proportionate for bank staff to have asked Miss S to provide further details such as 
to whom the money was being paid to and why she had permitted remote access to her 
computer.
Having a conversation with Miss S about how her relationship with Pro Capital Markets 
had come about would most probably have revealed real cause for concern. Im 
satisfied Miss S would have divulged that she had been contacted after seeing an 
advertisement from a celebrity on social media. One that had promised profits on 
cryptocurrency trades and that guaranteed withdrawals. But, despite being promised 
she could take out what she had put in, she was being restricted from accessing her 
money. And, crucially, these payments were being made possible via remote access to 
her computer.
Overall, had HSBC carried out further enquiries/research I find it highly likely it would 
have quickly established that Miss S was in the process of being scammed. At which 
point, I see no reason why HSBC could not have cancelled Miss Ss card or taken 
action to prevent the subsequent payments from leaving her account.
Indeed, HSBC has said it would have done exactly that had it been aware that Miss S 
had fallen victim to a scam. Consequently, I intend to direct HSBC to refund these 
disputed payments.
the HSBC loan
As Ive explained, Im persuaded that the payments made on 17 June 2019 should have
been averted. But for HSBC failing to act on information that ought reasonably to alert a
professional banker to suspicion of fraud, Miss S would not be in the situation she now 
finds herself in; that being, having the liability to pay back a loan taken out in her name.
So, on those grounds, I am minded to conclude that HSBC shouldnt have let the events
unfold on the day in question. However, for completeness, there is another reason why I
propose that Miss S should not be held responsible for the loan.Section 83 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 outlines that a debtor under a regulated
consumer credit agreement shall not be liable to the creditor for any loss arising from 
the use of the credit facility by another person not acting, or to be treated as acting, as 
the debtors agent. In simpler terms, Miss S cant legally be held liable for a debt that 
another person, not acting on her behalf, took out.
Taking the above into consideration, I must first conclude  on the balance of 
probabilities  whether the loan was applied for by Miss S or an agent acting on her 
behalf.
Based on the evidence available to me, I think its more likely than not that Miss S didnt
apply for the loan herself. I say so for these main reasons:
While the loan application held Miss Ss correct personal details, we already 
know the scammers had this information, having convinced her that it was 
needed to set up her trading account.
HSBC hasnt been able to supply any substantive evidence to show the 
application details, such as Miss Ss inputted income, was verified. In fact, 
HSBC is unable to show any real details of what information was used to submit 
the loan request.
So, in the absence of any further evidence, Im not compelled to believe that any 
specific information was given about Miss S that wasnt easily accessible to the 
scammers.
Miss S has given a consistent and persuasive version of events, in the sense 
that she was completely unaware of any activity relating to her being 
responsible for a credit application.
Although there may have been passcodes sent by HSBC to permit the loan 
going ahead, Miss S has given what she saw as a plausible explanation for why 
she gave this to the scammers  she was under the impression that this would 
permit her to receive money back from her investment. Much the same as one 
might input their PIN when receiving a refund in store.
Based on all of the evidence available to me, I think its more likely than not an 
unauthorised individual applied for the loan in Miss Ss name. This is coherent with   
Miss Ss statement and HSBC hasnt provided persuasive evidence to make me believe 
otherwise.
It follows that I intend to decide that Miss S neither applied for, nor agreed to, the loan in
question. Accordingly, HSBC should put Miss S back into the position she would have 
been in, had the loan not been granted.
putting things right
For the loan, I propose that HSBC should remove all data/entries relating to the loan 
from Miss Ss credit file. Its my intention that HSBC should also write off any remaining 
loan amount and refund all payments Miss S has made towards it.
In terms of the card payments, I have to bear in mind that the majority of what Miss S 
lost was enabled by the loan. Part of the loss was made up of her savings  so she 
should get those back in full. But without the loan, I can see that the entire £15,000 or 
so that was paid out of her account by the scammers would not have been possible. 
Where I am minded to necessitate that HSBC write off this debt, Miss S should not be 
expected to have this portion of the payments returned.That being the case, its my judgment that Miss S should receive the full amount that left 
her account, less the proceeds of the loan amount. Also, I intend to require HSBC to 
add 8% simple interest (per year) to this sum to recognise the loss of the use of these 
funds. This should be calculated from 17 June 2019 to the date of settlement.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint and require HSBC 
UK Bank Plc:
Write off any outstanding amount the loan might have
Refund any payments Miss S has made towards the loan to date
Remove any data in relation to this loan from Miss Ss credit file
Reimburse all of the disputed transactions that occurred on 17 June 2019 from      
Miss Ss HSBC account, less the loan amount of £11,000; and
Add 8% simple interest per annum to that sum from the date of loss to the date 
of settlement (less any lawfully deductible tax).
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss S accepted my provisional findings. And, with the intention of settling the matter, HSBC 
also agreed to my provisional decision on the grounds of paying the recommended redress 
as a gesture of good will.
Now that both parties have responded, the case has been returned to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both HSBC and Miss S agree to my provisional findings, I see no reason to 
depart from my proposed decision. To that end, the way in which I was minded to 
recommend that HSBC put things right remains the same.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and before, my final decision is to uphold this complaint and 
require HSBC UK Bank Plc:
 Write off any outstanding amount the loan might have
 Refund any payments Miss S has made towards the loan to date
 Remove any data in relation to this loan from Miss Ss credit file
 Reimburse all of the disputed transactions that occurred on 17 June 2019 from    
Miss Ss HSBC account, less the loan amount of £11,000; and
 Add 8% simple interest per annum to that sum from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement (less any lawfully deductible tax).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman