DRN-3985518
The complaint
Mr H complains HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) provided poor customer service when dealing 
with his credit card balance transfer request. 
What happened
Mr H says in late August 2022 he arranged to transfer the balance of his credit card from 
another provider to HSBC. Mr H says at the time he instructed the credit card balance 
transfer (CBT) he was advised that it would take 24 hours to complete. Mr H says when he 
discovered this hadnt happened in the timescale promised, he telephoned HSBC to enquire 
why. Mr H says he was kept waiting for hours on the telephone and was cut off with no 
attempt by HSBC to call him back. 
Additionally, Mr H says HSBC made errors when it set up the direct debit to his credit card 
account and this wasnt collected on time as agreed and he was left to make a faster 
payment to cover this. 
Overall, Mr H says he has been badly inconvenienced by HSBC and is looking for 
compensation for this  Mr H says he has also approached HSBC for a Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR ) so he can listen to the call recordings. 
HSBC says it was sorry that Mr H was given incorrect information about the CBT timings, but 
this was carried out within its usual timescales and completed on 2 September 2022. HSBC 
also apologised for the fact Mr H had issues while trying to call them and his direct debit was 
incorrectly set up on its system, but this has now been set up correctly going forward. HSBC 
have offered Mr H £75 for any breakdown in its service.
Mr H wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and partially upheld Mr Hs complaint. 
The investigator felt HSBC had dealt with the CBT within its standard timeframe and could 
see no evidence to suggest Mr H was told it would happen within 24 hours. The investigator 
also felt HSBC had dealt with his DSAR in a timely manner. 
The investigator says he listened to various call recordings and HSBC could have provided a 
better service and a clearer explanation of what went wrong concerning his direct debits. 
The investigator felt given the trouble and upset Mr H had gone through HSBC should 
increase the compensation it offered from £75 to £150. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be partially upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have 
come to my decision. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if HSBC have adequately compensated Mr H 
for the issues he faced when carrying out the CBT of his credit card with another provider. 
The first thing to say is Mr H has been provided with his DSAR in a reasonable timeframe by 
HSBC, so I wont be making further comment on that and in any event it wasnt a central part 
of his complaint here. 
Mr Hs complaint centres around the time it took him to establish if his CBT had been 
actioned and the lengths he had to go to ensure it had. Secondly, HSBC also made mistakes 
in setting up his direct debit to his credit card account, creating further inconvenience. 
From the information and call recordings provided to this service, its fair to say HSBC could 
have better informed Mr H concerning his direct debit arrangements and it has accepted it 
was at fault here and offered Mr H £75 by way of compensation. 
I have listened to a number of call recordings, and it is clear Mr H experienced difficulties 
getting connected to whom he wished to discuss his CBT. I can understand that would have 
been very frustrating for him, but that said it is clear when Mr H called HSBC on 2 
September 2022 he was told the CBT had gone through. 
Its worth saying Mr H made the CBT request on 30 August 2022 at around 17.45 and 
therefore in all likelihood, it wouldnt have been initiated until the next working day. Given the 
transfer was completed on 2 September 2022, I cant say this was unreasonably delayed 
and fits within the procedural timescales HSBC have provided to this service, where it says 
any CBTs processed after 3.30pm would be actioned within four working days. 
While Mr H says he was informed during the CBT process this would take 24 hours, I 
havent seen any evidence to support that, despite having listened to a number of telephone 
call recordings, and given HSBC has a set procedure for CBT timescales, its not clear why it 
would suggest it could action this sooner. That said HSBC have apologised if such a 
message was sent to him. 
So, all in all, the service Mr H received during the CBT and the setting up of his direct debit 
could have been smoother and like the investigator in this case, I agree the compensation 
HSBC offered doesnt fully reflect the trouble and upset here and with that in mind, I am 
satisfied £150 would be a more reasonable amount here, even if Mr H doesnt feel it is. 
Afterall, its not my role to punish banks like HSBC when service issues like this arise, but to 
ensure it puts matters right, offers an apology and a proportionate amount of redress and Im 
satisfied once the higher amount of compensation has been paid, it has done that here. 
While Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, I feel this is a fair outcome. 
Putting things right
I instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to pay Mr H £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint.
I instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to pay Mr H £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman