DRN-4363576
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK limited (Aviva) delayed the payment of his 
pension benefits causing him considerable inconvenience and financial losses. He would like 
compensation for his losses and the inconvenience caused.
What happened
Aviva doesnt dispute it delayed providing information about Mr Ms retirement benefit 
options. So, I will only briefly summarise the issues here.
Mr M planned to take his pension benefits with Aviva at age 75 in April 2022. Hed lived 
abroad for many years and there was a significant time difference between the UK and his 
country of residence. In September 2021 and again in January 2022 he advised Aviva in 
writing that his address had changed. Unfortunately, Aviva didnt update its records and sent 
pre-retirement information to his old address, which he didnt receive. Mr M contacted Aviva 
asking for the information to be resent but there were problems and delays in providing this 
and it was November 2022 before he received this. 
Mr M says hed planned to take an annuity and he raised queries about the options, some of 
which Aviva said were not available under a UK based pension plan. He says he spoke to a 
UK based adviser in January 2023. He says because of the delays and the stress this was 
causing he eventually decided to draw his entire fund in one go in March 2023. Aviva 
deducted PAYE tax of £54,231.10 and made a net payment of £111,565.27 to Mr M on 24 
March 2023.
Mr M made various complaints during this time, some of which Aviva upheld. Once his 
benefits had been paid Mr M made a further complaint in respect of the various problems as 
he saw them. In summary these were:
1. Despite contacting Aviva in January 2022, it was November 2022 before it provided 
the retirement pack needed
2. A years worth of annuity income had been lost due to the delay and Aviva should 
pay him £6,690 compensation for this.
3. Considerable time was spent, and cost incurred in making long international 
telephone calls to chase matters, often at antisocial hours and Aviva should pay him 
£250 for the cost of telephone calls
4. Significant stress and inconvenience were caused over 15 months and Aviva should 
pay him £16,500 compensation for this
5. The stress caused by the problems had forced Mr M to take his benefits as a lump 
sum to get away from Aviva which had incurred excess taxation. And Aviva should 
pay him £14,400 for the additional tax incurred.
Aviva apologised for the significant amount of distress and inconvenience it had caused. It 
said it had already upheld a number of Mr Ms complaints and had offered him a total of 
£600 in compensation. But it said it had been his decision to take the pension as a one-off 
lump-sum, so it wasnt responsible for any tax issues. It said had Mr M had opted for an 
annuity it would have back dated the payment of this to his 75th birthday and paid interest. 
Instead, it had added interest of £524.36 to the lump sum payment made in March 2023. It 
said it couldnt agree the compensation figures Mr M was seeking but that it was increasing 
its own offer to £1,500 along with a payment of £250 towards his telephone costs. It paid this 
directly to his bank account.
Mr M didnt agree and referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into 
it. She said the compensation already paid to Mr M was fair in the circumstances.
She said Mr M had intended to purchase an annuity at age 75. Had he proceeded with this 
Aviva would have backdated payment top April 2022 and added interest for the late 
payment. As it provided the retirement pack in November 2022, it had delayed payment by 
around seven months. If the annuity would have been £6,690 per year paid in advance, 
Aviva had already added £524.36 in interest, which appeared generous. 
And she said Aviva hadnt forced Mr M to take his benefits as a one-off lump sum and that 
he was being advised by a UK based financial adviser who should have made him fully 
aware of the tax consequences of this option. So, Aviva wasnt responsible for any additional 
tax costs. 
Our investigator said the payment of £250 towards call costs seemed reasonable. She said 
there had been a long delay in Aviva providing the necessary paperwork and this would 
have been frustrating and stressful for Mr M. But she said the amount he was seeking in 
compensation for this of £16,500 was far more than our service would consider reasonable 
except in complaints where the impact of a businesss errors was extreme and likely to 
impact the customer for the rest of their life. 
She said Mr M had only chased Aviva on four occasions between April and November 2022. 
And he hadnt shown evidence that he was in financial hardship and urgently in need of the 
funds during this time. This suggested that delays hadnt affected his day-to-day life. And 
taking this into account she thought Aviva had already paid more in compensation than it 
needed to.
Mr M said our investigator had accurately assessed the situation. But he didnt agree that 
only contacting Aviva on four occasions between April and November 2022 meant there 
wasnt a significant impact on him. He said his family circumstances at the time had 
changed. And he said it was extraordinary that for Aviva to be held accountable for its lack 
of professional care and inefficiency that he had to prove injury to myself. He said he still 
felt his decision to remove Aviva from his life by opting for a lump sum payment was driven 
by its inaction and behaviour.  
As Mr M doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
Our service doesnt regulate businesses and I cant tell Aviva to change its procedures or 
punish it for mistakes or errors. But I can award compensation when I think errors have 
caused distress and inconvenience or caused losses. It is very clear that Aviva made a number of errors and took an excessively long time to 
provide Mr M with the retirement information he needed to arrange his benefits. And I 
appreciate that this would have been very frustrating for Mr M. But I think the compensation 
it has already paid is fair, and more than I would have awarded in the circumstances. I also 
think it has fairly compensated Mr M for any loss he did suffer through the delay in him being 
able to access his benefits. 
I think this because whilst Avivas service was poor there were some mitigating factors and 
part of the delay in Mr M actually accessing his benefits appears to relate to queries and 
misunderstandings about what benefits could be provided. Of course, Mr M needed details 
of his pension to properly consider these options and these werent provided until November 
2022. Having received these, he appears to have initially indicated he wanted to purchase 
an annuity. But some of Mr Ms subsequent queries and complaints made after November 
2022 relate to questions about and requests for options not available under UK pension 
arrangements, such as transferring the plan to his wife.
Aviva wasnt providing Mr M with advice and his pension plan was subject to UK tax laws. 
The information it provided in November 2022 suggested that he seek financial advice if he 
wasnt sure about his options. And there was nothing automatic about an annuity coming 
into payment at age 75. There were various options available to Mr M about how benefits 
could be provided. And if his choice was an annuity, what features should be included. But 
Mr Ms UK based adviser only contacted Aviva on 15 February 2023.
Aviva isnt responsible for the difficulties caused by the significant time difference which 
made it inconvenient for Mr M to call it. Or for the cost of international mobile calls because 
he didnt have a land line. I can see it made several attempts to make call backs to Mr Ms or 
his wifes mobile phone without being able to get through. Aviva systems are, not 
unreasonably, primarily in place to service the requirements of UK residents. That extends to 
postal communications. So, Avivas payment of £250 towards his call costs seems very 
reasonable.
I dont agree that Mr M was forced to take the lump sum option to rid himself of Aviva. He 
was being advised at that point and his adviser was in receipt of the necessary 
documentation from Aviva to proceed with an annuity option. So, it follows that I dont think 
Aviva is responsible for any additional tax costs that may have been incurred through taking 
the benefits in one lump sum. Likewise, the interest payment added to the lump sum in 
respect of the delayed annuity payment that would have been backdated to April 2022 
seems reasonable, given this was Mr Ms initial preference. 
Aviva hasnt provided a copy of the calculation used here. But based on the annuity figures 
provided to Mr M with payments to commence in April 2022 the £524.36 interest payment 
does appear generous. As it is more than Id expect given our service considers that a fair 
rate of interest for late payment is 8% per year simple, which would also normally be subject 
to a tax deduction.    
So, taking everything together whilst Avivas service was undoubtedly poor it did provide the 
information Mr M needed to progress matters by November 2022. So, it isnt fair to say it 
was to blame for the entire delay in Mr M receiving his benefits. Considering the apparent 
impact on Mr M, I do think the compensation it has already paid is fair in the circumstances 
of the complaint and Aviva neednt do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman