DRN-3038784
The complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC failed to refund transactions he didnt 
recognise or amend their reporting to the credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr B held a Tesco credit card and called them to close the account. There was a small credit 
balance and Mr B asked for it to be sent to a bank account which Tesco arranged. When Mr 
B received his statement after the account closure, he saw two transactions he didnt 
recognise and claimed they were unauthorised.
Mr B thought someone had been able to obtain his card details and re-open his account. 
Tesco explained that the two transactions were made just prior to Mr B closing the account, 
but had taken a few days to reach his statement, which explained why they werent taken 
into account when Mr B received the credit. It was noted by Tesco that the credit they sent to 
Mr Bs account was almost the same amount Mr B was now disputing. 
Mr B made a complaint to Tesco who declined to refund Mr B. He then brought his complaint 
to our service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who 
thought it was reasonable for Tesco to hold Mr B liable for the transactions.
Mr B continued to disagree and reiterated his claim that the account was falsely opened and 
nothing to do with him.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Tesco can hold Mr B liable for the 
disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them 
or authorised them. 
Tesco can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr B authorised the 
transactions, but Tesco cannot say that the use of the credit card details conclusively proves 
that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Tesco can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Bs account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr B.
Because the transactions were properly authenticated by the payment tools issued to Mr B, 
Im satisfied that Tesco had the appropriate instructions with which to carry out the 
transactions. Ill now go on to consider if sufficient evidence has been provided to show that 
Mr B consented to the transactions.
Mr B believed the disputed transactions were the result of his account being falsely 
reopened after it was closed. On the other hand, Tesco believed Mr B made these 
transactions shortly prior to closing the account when he asked for the remaining funds to be 
transferred to another bank account.
The timing of the transactions shows they were made prior to Mr Bs request to close his 
account. At the time, there was a positive balance left on the account. When Tesco closed 
the account and moved the outstanding balance, the two disputed transactions hadnt yet 
reached the account. So, when they were finally processed, this caused Mr Bs account to 
use Tescos funds. 
In a call to Tesco, Mr B explained that he believed a friend had previously had access to his 
account details, but this was some years earlier. I asked Mr B for some more details about 
this but havent received any response. So, Ive thought whether someone who may have 
had access to account details would wait for some years before attempting to use them. I 
dont think this is the likely explanation for how these payments were made and Ill explain 
why. 
Mr B had a healthy credit limit and it would have been possible to use the details much 
earlier  which seems to me to be the main reason for taking someone elses credit card 
details. A thief would be unlikely to wait for years before using it and then make just two 
transactions that almost mirrored the positive balance left in the account.
I think a more likely explanation is that Mr B made these transactions because the account 
held a positive balance and then for some reason didnt realise it hadnt been accounted for 
on his statement when he closed it. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr B was reasonable for 
making these transactions and it was reasonable for Tesco to hold him liable for them. 
Tescos reporting to the credit reference agencies reflected the way the account was 
operated, and I wont be asking Tesco to change how they reported it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman