DRN-4082377
The complaint
Mrs M complains Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) didnt complete appropriate checks 
when lending to her.
What happened
In November 2021, Mrs M acquired a used car, financed through a hire purchase agreement 
(A1) with Black Horse. She was required to make 48 monthly repayments of £691.85, and 
then a final repayment of £19,393.
Mrs M settled A1 in January 2022, at the same time as taking out a new hire purchase 
agreement (A2) also with Black Horse for a different used car. A2 required Mrs M to make 
48 monthly repayments of £684.76, and then a final repayment of £21,270.
Shortly after A2 commenced, Mrs Ms circumstances changed, and she got into difficulties 
making her repayments.
After A2 fell into arrears, Mrs M complained to Black Horse that on both occasions theyd 
mis-sold the finance to her because much higher than previous repayments had been 
agreed, without appropriate checks, specifically stress tests, having been made. 
Black Horse didnt uphold the complaint saying they felt confident the checks completed 
showed sufficient disposable income for them to provide the loans. Because Mrs M 
remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mrs M 
was also unhappy Black Horse refused to provide underwriting notes to her as part of a Data 
Subject Access Request (DSAR) she made which she says would support her complaint.
One of our Investigators looked into things, but didnt think Black Horse had acted unfairly 
because he was satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks had been completed prior to 
them agreeing to provide both A1 and A2 to Mrs M.
Our Investigator also said hed not seen any evidence Black Horse had withheld personal 
information when completing Mrs Ms DSAR, and he didnt think they needed to provide her 
anything further relating to their underwriting procedures.
Mrs M disagreed saying Black Horse failed to complete stress tests before agreeing to lend 
to her and had they done, they wouldve clearly been able to see that a change in 
circumstances wouldve made the finance unaffordable. Mrs M also said her concerns about 
the subsequent arrears relating to A2 had not been addressed.
Our Investigator said completing a stress test wasnt a requirement of Black Horse when 
agreeing this type of lending. He also said Mrs M should raise her concerns about Black 
Horses response to her financial difficulties with them, allowing them the opportunity to 
investigate and respond directly.
As no agreeable resolution could be reached, this case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mrs M, so Ill 
explain why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than has been provided, and 
Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully looked at everything Mrs M has said and provided, but I also must consider 
what Black Horse knew at the time of the application and take into account the relevant rules 
put in place by The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the regulator at the time.
How we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending is explained on our 
website. Its this approach Ive used when deciding Mrs Ms complaint. Black Horse needed 
to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly which in practice, means they needed to carry out 
proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was affordable for Mrs M 
before agreeing to provide it.
The rules that apply to credit agreements are set out in the FCAs consumer credit 
sourcebook (CONC). Section 5.2A of CONC is relevant here, as  among other things  it 
talks about the need for businesses like Black Horse to complete reasonable and 
proportionate creditworthiness assessments before agreeing to lend someone money. 
For both A1 and A2 Ive considered the rules by asking the following questions:
1) Did Black Horse complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
themselves Mrs M would be able to meet the repayments of the borrowing without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences?
If they did, were their decisions to lend to Mrs M fair?
If they didnt, would those checks have shown that Mrs M couldve done?
2) Did Black Horse act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Black Horse complete reasonable and proportionate affordability checks?
A1
Mrs M told Black Horse she received an annual salary of £36,000. They completed a third-
party affordability check to verify Mrs Ms income. The check uses several sources such as 
current account turnover and previous credit applications to help verify the stated income. 
Ive seen a screen shot from Black Horses systems at the time which indicated the check 
returned a high level of confidence in the information theyd been provided.
Black Horse also completed a credit check to help them understand how Mrs M managed both her current and existing finances. Ive seen this informed Black Horse she held a clean 
credit history with multiple active credit relationships and a good repayment history  with all 
payments having been made on time in the previous six months. From the credit check 
results Ive seen; I find it reasonable that this led Black Horse to conclude the risk of lending 
was low.
Black Horse also completed their own affordability check using a range of data including 
information gathered from Mrs M, the credit check results and statistical data. This showed 
against a monthly income of £2,343, Mrs M had monthly expenses of £533 leaving her a 
pre-lending disposable monthly income of £1810. 
Having looked through the results from the credit check, I dont think it returned anything 
Black Horse ought to have been concerned about. I think the checks completed by Black 
Horse, against the stated income which they were given confidence was accurate, showed 
Mrs M was left with a substantial amount of disposable income even after allowing for the 
lending commitment. 
As such, I find the affordability check completed to have been reasonable and proportionate.
A2
A2 was completed less than two months after the application for A1 was agreed and resulted 
in Mrs M committing to a marginally lower monthly repayment. That said, Id still expect to 
see Black Horse complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves her 
circumstances hadnt changed.
Mrs M told Black Horse she continued to receive an annual salary of £36,000. Black Horse 
again completed the same third-party affordability check to verify the income stated which 
Ive seen indicated to them the same high level of confidence in the information theyd been 
provided.
Black Horse also completed a credit check to help them understand how Mrs M managed 
both her current and existing finances. Ive seen this informed Black Horse she held a clean 
credit history with multiple active credit relationships and a good repayment history  with all 
payments having been made on time in the previous six months. From the credit check 
results Ive seen; I find it reasonable that this led Black Horse to again conclude the risk of 
lending was low.
Black Horse again completed their own affordability check using a range of data including 
information gathered from Mrs M, the credit check results and statistical data. This showed 
against a monthly income of £2,343, Mrs M had monthly expenses of £522 leaving her a 
pre-lending disposable monthly income of £1821.
Having looked through the results from the credit check, I dont think it returned anything 
Black Horse ought to have been concerned about. I think the checks completed by Black 
Horse, against the stated income which they were given confidence was accurate, showed 
Mrs M was left with a substantial amount of disposable income even after allowing for the 
lending commitment. 
As such, I find the affordability check completed to have been reasonable and proportionate.
Did Black Horse make fair lending decisions?
Ive considered the evidence obtained by Black Horse at the time of approving both A1 and 
A2. Im satisfied from the information provided that it was reasonable for Black Horse to conclude that Mrs M had more than sufficient disposable income to meet the monthly 
repayments. Im also satisfied from the information and evidence available to Black Horse, it 
was reasonable for them to also conclude shed have more than sufficient money left over 
each month for emergency or unexpected costs. 
Mrs M declared to Black Horse at the time of both A1 and A2 being agreed that her monthly 
housing and mortgage commitment was zero. I appreciate Mrs M says her mortgage was 
clearly visible on her credit history at the time, and I understand she feels strongly that had 
stress tests have been undertaken, Black Horse shouldve rejected her for both A1 and A2 
on the scenario of if issues should arise.
But a lender is required to complete a stress test when they need to take into account the 
effect of potential future interest rate rises on the lending provided. Both A1 and A2 were 
fixed rate agreements so it wasnt a requirement for Black Horse to consider potential rate 
rises as these wouldnt impact Mrs Ms repayments.
A stress test isnt designed to account for potential changes in circumstances. A borrowers 
circumstances could change at any time such as an unexpected change to their employment 
status. A lender can only be expected to take into account the circumstances they are 
advised of, at the time of reaching their decision.
That said a lender is required to check that proposed lending is sustainable, and Im satisfied 
they did this. Mrs M was in permanent employment, on a full-time salary at the time. She had 
sufficient disposable income and there was no indication to Black Horse that her 
circumstance might change that in the future.
While I dont doubt Mrs M has found herself in difficult circumstances since taking out A2 
and Im sorry to hear this, based on the evidence provided, Im satisfied Black Horse did 
complete reasonable and proportionate checks prior to agreeing the finance and I dont think 
they acted unfairly by lending to him. 
From everything Ive seen I cant reasonably say Black Horse acted unfairly when approving 
either finance agreement for Mrs M.
Did Black Horse act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Taking into consideration everything Ive seen; Im not persuaded that Black Horse acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. 
Mrs M has an outstanding balance owed under A2 and she has been advised to contact 
them regarding any financial difficulty she currently might find herself in. Id remind Black 
Horse of its obligation to treat any contact from her with forbearance and due consideration.
DSAR
Our investigator concluded hed seen no evidence any personal information had been 
withheld from Mrs M during their completion of her DSAR request, which is what they are 
required to provide her.
Mrs M didnt provide further comment on this issue following our Investigators view, but Ive 
considered all the information and evidence available to me, and Ive not seen anything that 
persuades me to reach a different decision, so I dont find Black Horse need to do anything 
to put things right here either.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman