DRN-4383109
The complaint
Mr P complains about Inter Partner Assistance SAs (IPAs) handling of his home 
emergency claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
As the water was leaking through Mr Ps ceiling, I think IPA ought to have arranged 
for an engineer to attend as an emergency. It wasnt appropriate to expect Mr P to 
wait until the following day. IPA accepts this and has apologised to Mr P. 
The policy says that if IPA cant deploy an engineer, it will allow an insured to arrange 
for their own contractor to resolve the emergency and will refund the cost of this (up 
to £500), but would require a fully itemised invoice or receipt. 
Mr Ps neighbour (who is a plumber) was able to carry out a repair the same day for 
him. Mr P says his neighbour didnt charge him for the work, though he did give his 
neighbour some vouchers in thanks. As Mr Ps neighbour didnt charge him for the 
repair, I cant say he has suffered a financial loss. Its also the case that he didnt 
need to pay IPA any excess.
Having said that, I think Mr P was caused unnecessary worry and inconvenience by 
the matter. He was expecting an engineer to attend, but they didnt. And that meant 
he had to ask his neighbour for help. Though taking into account the leak was then 
resolved the same day, I think the £100 compensation paid by IPA was appropriate 
here.
A previous repair was carried out by IPAs engineer in October 2022. Mr P thinks this 
wasnt done properly and that this caused the leak in February 2023. However, as 
the February 2023 repair wasnt carried out by IPA, theres no engineer notes which 
say why the leak happened. Mr P has provided some photos to this Service. Im not 
able to view all of them, but from the ones I can see, they show the damage which 
isnt in dispute. However, I cant reasonably conclude based on this that the leak was 
due to poor workmanship from the October 2022 repair. 
IPA asked Mr P for his plumbers report (on letterhead paper) confirming why its 
previous repair from October 2022 had failed. I think that was reasonable, and if Mr P 
provides this to IPA, then it can consider the matter further. 
I therefore dont require IPA to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as I find that Inter Partner Assistance 
SA paid Mr P reasonable compensation for its error.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman