DRN-1760849
The complaint
Mr I complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc keeps locking him out of his telephone banking 
facility.
What happened
Mr I complains that in late 2019 he was unable to access his telephone banking. He says 
that when he raised this with HSBC, he was told that he must have been entering his 
telephone security number (TSN) incorrectly. He denies that this is the case, because the 
error message telling him he cannot proceed further appears before he has even entered his 
TSN.
Mr I has complained about this issue before, in 2018. Each time, HSBC said that it was not 
able to tell us what his TSN was or what number Mr I had been entering, so it was not 
possible to verify whether he had been entering the correct number or an incorrect one. But 
HSBC thought that the only explanation must be that Mr I had entered the wrong number. 
HSBC said that the result would have been that access to telephone banking would then be 
locked, and until it was unlocked by a member of staff Mr I would not be able to enter his 
TSN again. That was why the error message was appearing before he had even entered his 
TSN. HSBC suggested that Mr I might try internet banking, or voice ID, or visiting his branch 
and showing the staff what he was doing when he tried to use telephone banking.
Mr I insisted that he could not have entered the wrong TSN, because he had always used 
the same number for years, so he would not forget it. He said it must be a technical problem 
with HSBCs systems. He did not want to try any of the alternatives proposed by HSBC.
The investigator who dealt with Mr Is latest complaint (i.e. this one) said that the evidence 
was inconclusive and that it was not possible to be sure what had gone wrong. But HSBCs 
logs showed that there had been times during the period Mr I was complaining about when 
he had been able to successfully log in to telephone banking. So he inferred that the most 
likely explanation, although he admitted he could not be sure, was that the system was 
working and that Mr I had accidentally entered the wrong TSN. He suggested that 
Mr I should try the alternatives that the bank had suggested. (The investigator who dealt with 
the 2018 complaint had said much the same thing.)
Mr I asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to take this opportunity to apologise to both parties for how long it has taken for 
this complaint to be allocated to an ombudsman, and to thank them for their patience. 
I agree that the evidence is not conclusive, and that it is not possible to be certain about 
what has been going wrong. I realise that must be frustrating for Mr I. But I cannot be 
satisfied that the problem is necessarily a system error on the part of HSBC. For that reason, 
I cannot uphold this complaint.
I think Mr I will need to take some steps to avoid the problem recurring by taking his phone 
to a branch of HSBC and going through the telephone banking login process in the presence 
of a member of staff, if he has not done so already, as both investigators recommended. 
This might help to identify the source of the problem. (He might also find it easier to try the 
voice ID process, or online banking, although I realise that he does not wish to.)
In the absence of any new evidence coming to light, it is unlikely that a third complaint about 
this problem would result in a different outcome to the first two. Therefore, unless new 
evidence becomes available, we might not consider another complaint about this matter.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman