DRN-3626684
The complaint
Mr J complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) wont refund him the full cost of repairs to 
settle a claim on his commercial insurance.
Mr J bought his policy through an intermediary and most of his correspondence has been 
with either this company or the loss adjuster rather than directly with Covea. For the 
avoidance of doubt, any reference to Covea includes its agents, including the intermediary 
and the loss adjuster.
What happened
Mr J had a Covea commercial insurance policy, bought through an intermediary. In July 
2019, his premises were flooded during bad weather. This caused significant damage and 
Mr J made a claim on his insurance.
Mr J arranged for the repairs to be carried out himself. He told Covea the repairs cost him 
around £22,700. Covea offered him an interim payment of £17,500 in May 2020. However, it 
wouldnt pay him the balance of around £5,200 when the repair work had been completed. It 
said, in summary: 
Some of the work done wasnt to repair storm damage.
It wouldnt pay £1,800 labour costs for repairs to the two bedrooms, material costs for 
the bedroom repairs, or for some repairs in the kitchen and hallway (for example, 
light fittings and tiling).
It made some other adjustments to reflect overstatement of the claim and 
undamaged aspects, for example insulation costs.
Mr J accepted that Covea wouldnt pay for the bedroom repairs. But hes unhappy it wont 
pay the remaining balance of around £3,460. He brought his complaint to this service. He 
told us hed had to pay for the repairs himself. As well as the money, he says this cost him 
significant time and a great deal of mental stress. He wants Covea to refund his costs in full 
and apologise for how it handled his claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Js complaint should be upheld. She agreed with 
Covea that some of the invoices were for repairs unrelated to the storm damage covered by 
Mr Js insurance. She didnt think Mr J had provided a clear breakdown of his builders work 
or explain why some fittings were replaced rather than repaired. Overall, she thought 
Coveas settlement for Mr Js claim was fair.
Mr J disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, ombudsmen decisions are published so are written in a way that prevents the 
customer from being identified. The unique circumstances of the claim are well known to 
both parties so Im not going to set them out here. If Im vague about them its to keep Mr J 
from being identified, not because Ive ignored them or think them irrelevant. 
Second, Mr Js original claim was the subject of a separate complaint to this service. Im not 
going to go over that again here. My decision relates only to the settlement amount.
Section 1e of Mr Js policy booklet says: It is a condition precedent to our liability that in the 
event of a claim or possible claim you must provide at your own expense all details and 
evidence we may reasonably require (Claims procedure, page 19). I think its reasonable 
for Covea to ask Mr J to provide clear evidence of repair work done and costs incurred.
Covea said Mr J hasnt properly evidenced his claim. It told us:
The repair works had already been done, including work not covered by the claim.
Mr J presented cash receipts rather than detailed invoices, as well as random 
receipts for materials with no explanation what they were for.
He provided receipts for materials that it didnt think needed replacing (for example, 
tiling in the kitchen).
It had concerns about duplicated and overstated receipts. 
Ive reviewed the receipts Mr J gave Covea and I cant reconcile them to the amount hes 
claiming. An (undated) letter from Mr Js builder said Mr J had paid him £12,180. In an email 
to the loss adjuster in March 2020, Mr J listed material costs of around £6,200.
I also note Mr Js builders reply when Mr J asked him to provide a breakdown of the work he 
carried out, plus costs. He said:
You can appreciate your jobs was done some months ago and we have 
undertaken many different jobs since yours, so to ask me for a total individual 
breakdown of all the jobs done to each of your rooms at this time its not possible.
I agree with Covea that Mr J has been unable to provide adequate evidence of the costs he 
incurred. I understand why it wont pay Mr J more than £17,500 and I think its justification for 
this is reasonable.
I understand why Mr J is unhappy and frustrated that he had to pay for the repairs himself. I 
also accept that this would have been an incredibly stressful time for him. However, I think 
Coveas decision not to offer Mr J more than its interim payment is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman