DRN-4207696
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd ignored their requests to 
switch their mortgage onto a capital repayment basis and extend the term. As a result, their 
mortgage term expired with an unpaid balance. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out a mortgage with UCB on a repayment basis. They switched their 
mortgage to interest only payments in 2006. Mr and Mrs J say they asked to switch for 12 
months, but UCB made the switch permanent. Mr and Mrs J say they asked repeatedly to 
switch back onto a capital repayment basis, but UCB ignored these requests. 
The mortgage term expired (one part in April 2020 and the second part in January 2021) 
with an unpaid balance of about £180,000. Mrs J says this is because UCB didnt convert 
the mortgage back to repayment terms.
Mr and Mrs J say they have no means to repay the balance at this time. They expect to be 
able to repay it if the term is extended for between five and 20 years. Members of their family 
have disabilities, and they say it would take some years to de-clutter the property for a sale. 
They say UCB hasnt dealt with their request for a term extension fairly.
We explained to Mr and Mrs J that time limits in our rules mean we cant look into all of their 
complaints. We said we cant look into their complaint about the mortgage being switched to 
interest only terms in 2006, or that it wasnt switched back onto repayment terms before 
2012. We said can look into Mr and Mrs Js complaint that UCB didnt extend the mortgage 
term and, since December 2012, it refused to convert the mortgage onto repayment terms.
Our investigator said given the conduct of Mr and Mrs Js account (which has been in 
arrears) it was unlikely theyd have been able to make the larger monthly payments required 
if they switched to a repayment basis. She said it was fair for UCB to decline to switch the 
mortgage to capital repayment. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint about UCB not offering a term 
extension. She said UCB had considered their request fairly and found that monthly 
payments would be unaffordable, even on an interest only basis. Our investigator said she 
couldnt require UCB to rely on possible future income such as an expected inheritance and 
benefits Mr and Mrs J intend to claim in future, and Mr and Mrs J didnt have a credible plan 
to repay the capital. There was a risk theyd find themselves in the same position at the end 
of any extension. 
Mrs J said they could afford monthly payments and intended to repay the mortgage by 
switching back to a repayment basis. She said if UCB had told her it wouldnt allow a switch 
to a repayment basis shed have looked for a policy to repay the capital. She said she didnt 
make overpayments because she wasnt asked to do so.
Mrs J said UCB hadnt taken into account her familys multiple disabilities and health issues, 
the difficulty of getting the house ready for a sale, and that their children with disabilities cant 
live independently. Mrs J also said UCB hadnt taken into account that recently theyve been 
paying their mortgage without a problem and she can access lump sums in future. 
Mrs J also said they wanted to look into re-mortgaging, but this would need time due to her 
disabilities. And UCB had recorded arrears on their credit files which made this difficult.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs J has recently raised some new issues. For instance, that she made additional 
payments which UCB took in fees instead of applying them to reduce the capital. I cant fairly 
address these issues in a final decision until UCB has had an opportunity to respond and 
theyve been looked into by one of our investigators. I dont think it would be fair to delay 
issuing a final decision while this happens. This complaint has been with us for some time 
and Im aware that Mrs J wants a resolution to that she can discuss the next steps with UCB. 
Here, Im looking into whether UCB was unfair not to convert Mr and Mrs Js mortgage onto 
repayment terms and offer a term extension.
Mr and Mrs Js account was in arrears from March 2011 until 2019. Although Mr and Mrs J 
made payments in most months during this period, there were months when no payments 
were made and overall the arrears balance increased. UCB started court proceedings which 
were halted when Mr and Mrs J cleared the arrears in early 2019. Mr and Mrs Js account 
fell into arrears again from mid-2020. The arrears balance continued to increase up to late 
2022, when UCB provided its records to us. UCB says monthly payments are now being 
maintained. 
Mr and Mrs J agreed a payment deferral with UCB in March to May 2020, during the Covid-
19 pandemic. I note that UCBs records for March 2020 to May 2020 say no payments were 
due or received and the arrears balance didnt change. I dont think the payment deferral 
was the cause of Mr and Mrs Js arrears prior to this, or for the arrears increasing up to late 
2022. Mrs J raised a separate complaint with UCB as to whether the payment deferral was 
reported correctly to the credit reference agencies, and Im not looking into or making any 
findings about that here. 
UCB has a duty to report accurate and up to date information to the credit reference 
agencies. As I said, Im not looking into or making findings about what information UCB 
reported during any period that a payment deferral was agreed. But outside of that period, I 
dont think it was incorrect or unfair for UCB to report that Mr and Mrs Js mortgage was in 
arrears. While I appreciate having arrears on their credit files could make re-mortgaging 
more difficult, I cant fairly require UCB to remove this information.
I should explain briefly that the rules on mortgage regulation (set out in the FCAs handbook 
under MCOB) require lenders to carry out a detailed affordability assessment before 
agreeing to lend or vary a mortgage. Mr and Mrs J were asking UCB to vary their mortgage, 
so UCB needed to carry out an affordability assessment. There are only limited exceptions 
to this. MCOB 11.7.3 allows UCB to extend the term of an interest only mortgage without an 
affordability assessment if certain conditions are met and this is in Mr and Mrs Js best 
interests. MCOB 13.3 (which applies when a mortgage is in arrears, as was the case here) 
requires UCB to consider extending the term. And UCB has an obligation to treat Mr and 
Mrs J fairly and take their particular circumstances and best interests into account.
Mrs J drew my attention to recent announcements about the support mortgage lenders can offer to borrowers who are struggling with the current economic situation. Id expect UCB to 
take any relevant guidance into account, as well as the rules on mortgage regulation and its 
duty to treat Mr and Mrs J fairly. 
Monthly mortgage payments are higher when a mortgage is on a capital repayment basis as 
compared to an interest only basis. Thats because the monthly payment includes an 
amount towards repaying the capital as well as the interest due that month. While the 
amount of capital to be repaid each month can be reduced by extending the term, payments 
would still be higher than for a mortgage on an interest only basis. 
I think it was fair for UCB to assess whether Mr and Mrs J could afford the higher payments 
if they switched to repayment terms, and to ask them for information about their income and 
expenditure to do so. Even if  as Mrs J says  UCB declined or failed to respond to her 
requests because of their arrears this doesnt change my decision. Mr and Mrs J were 
unable to maintain payments on an interest only basis, so it seems unlikely UCB would have 
assessed higher monthly payments on a capital repayment basis as affordable. If UCB had 
converted the mortgage to repayment terms, its unlikely Mr and Mrs J would have been able 
to maintain the monthly payments. Its likely their mortgage would have fallen into arrears 
and theyd be in much the same position as they are now.
Mrs J said they didnt make overpayments to reduce the capital balance because no-one 
told them to do so. And if UCB had told her it wouldnt convert the mortgage to a repayment 
basis shed have looked for a policy to repay the balance. Equally though, Mrs J says she 
was aware of the need to repay the balance before the end of the term, so if Mr and Mrs J 
did have funds available they could have made lump sum repayments. I dont know if a 
policy would have been available to Mr and Mrs J that would have provided sufficient funds 
to repay the mortgage balance. It seems unlikely theyd have had the funds available to pay 
for such a policy when they were struggling with their monthly mortgage payments. 
Mrs J complained in early 2022 that she hadnt had a response to her most recent request to 
switch to repayment terms. UCB said it had sent letters and tried to contact Mr and Mrs J by 
phone to discuss the mortgage. It said it would need income and expenditure information to 
consider Mrs Js request, which Mrs J then provided.
UCB wrote to Mr and Mrs J in February 2022 saying a capital repayment mortgage wasnt 
affordable. It asked if theyd taken advice on the implications of drawing pension funds, and 
said there might be options if the balance was reduced and the remainder converted to a 
repayment basis. 
UCB wrote to Mr and Mrs J again in mid-2022 saying it declined their request for a 20-year 
term extension on a repayment basis because monthly payments wouldnt be affordable. It 
explained what income it had taken into account, and that inheritance isnt an acceptable 
repayment plan. It said recovery action would be on hold while it referred Mr and Mrs Js 
account to senior managers for review in September 2022 to see what options could be 
available. Following the review, UCB said an extension wasnt affordable, even with a longer 
term, and Mr and Mrs J didnt meet criteria for a lifetime product. It said it would hold action 
for three months while Mr and Mrs J took independent financial advice.
Mrs J explained the difficulties for her family in moving to another property at this time, and I 
understand how important it is for Mr and Mrs J to find a solution which will allow them to 
stay in the property if thats possible. Id expect UCB to take Mr and Mrs Js circumstances 
into account when considering what support it can offer and whats fair and in their best 
interests. This doesnt mean it has to agree to Mr and Mrs J requests, or that a term 
extension would be in their best interests. While Mrs J hopes it will be easier for her family to 
move in future, theres no guarantee that would be the case. Theres no certainty that Mr and Mrs Js health will improve, or that there will be better support available for their children to 
live more independently. Mr and Mrs J could find it more difficult to move when they are 
older. Property prices wont necessarily rise or stay the same. A fall in property prices would 
reduce the amount of equity available to Mr and Mrs J from a sale, or could limit their ability 
to re-mortgage. UCB needs to take all of this into account when considering whats in Mr and 
Mrs Js best interests. While Mrs J says it will take time to de-clutter the property, I must take 
into account that the term expired in early 2021 so Mr and Mrs J have already had time to 
plan for this. 
I think UCB fairly considered what options it could offer to Mr and Mrs J. I dont think it was 
unfair for UCB to decline Mr and Mrs Js requests to convert the mortgage onto repayment 
terms and extend the term. Based on the information it had about Mr and Mr Js 
circumstances, I think it was reasonable for UCB to assess monthly payments for a capital 
repayment mortgage as unaffordable and Mr and Mrs J dont have an acceptable repayment 
plan for any interest only balance. At the end of any term extension, Mr and Mrs J could find 
themselves in the same position with a balance they cant repay and could struggle with 
monthly payments in the meantime. In the circumstances, I dont think its fair to require UCB 
to extend the term of Mr and Mrs Js mortgage. 
Mrs J says both she and Mr J now receive pension income as well as self-employed income. 
Mrs J says shes able to draw a tax-free lump sum from her pension to reduce the 
outstanding balance, which she says would make repayments affordable. I note that Mrs J 
also told UCB she cant draw a pension lump sum at this time without it affecting her benefits 
and pension entitlements. Mrs J says their income has increased and expenditure reduced 
since early 2022. Mrs J will need to provide evidence of this to UCB so that it can fairly 
consider her proposals and what support it can offer. 
When Mr and Mrs J took out the mortgage they agreed to repay it by the end of the term. 
Thats the basis of the contract they entered into. The term of Mr and Mrs Js mortgage 
expired more than two years ago with an unpaid balance and no agreement as to how the 
debt will be repaid. I hope Mr and Mrs J will be able to find a solution that allows them to stay 
in their home. But ultimately if this isnt possible and they cant repay the debt, UCB will be 
entitled to take steps to recover it, such as taking possession of the property. 
Id encourage Mr and Mrs J to consider taking independent financial advice about what 
options might be available. Mrs J says they have resources, such as her pension and a 
share in another property. An independent financial adviser might be able to help them find a 
solution which they can discuss with UCB, and advise them on the implications of different 
options (such as drawing a pension lump sum). While I dont know if other lenders offer 
products suitable for Mr and Mrs J, or if Mr and Mrs J would meet the relevant lending 
criteria, theyd be able to explore this with an independent financial adviser. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman