DRN-3812270
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complained about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited dealt with 
their accident claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In this case Mrs W is the policyholder and Mr W the named driver. But as its Mr W who has 
mainly dealt with us about the complaint, for ease Ill mostly refer to just him in this decision 
rather than both of them. 
Mr W s car was damaged in an accident and Advantage decided that it was uneconomical 
to repair. They offered him £4,620 as its market value, less his policy excess, but he thought 
it was worth more. He also wanted Advantage to give him back his damaged car, to organise 
its repair himself, but by mistake Advantage sold it as salvage without his consent. He 
complained about that and other aspects of Advantages service. He wanted a higher market 
value for his car, or for Advantage to buy him an equivalent car.
Advantage maintained that their market value offer for his car was fair and reasonable and in 
accordance with the trade guides. They agreed that their service had been poor and offered 
him £120 in compensation for that, and a further £30 reimbursement of fuel used. They 
admitted theyd made a mistake in selling his car and Advantage offered him £350 in 
compensation for that. Mr W had some other issues with Advantages service, relating to 
what they did with his car, and the salvage marker they gave it, but these are no longer 
relevant because Advantage mistakenly sold the car.
The investigator thought that Advantages assessment of Mr Ws cars value was fair and 
reasonable, and their compensation offered for their poor service was fair too. However he 
thought they should increase the compensation offer for sale of his car to £500. Advantage 
agreed to this. Mr W didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantages service
 
Mr W felt that Advantage pressured him to accept their settlement offer for his car. And he 
said that he couldnt get through to Advantage, they didnt call back or reply to emails and 
they didnt keep him updated about what was happening with his car. 
Advantage accepted their service failings and offered him £120 in compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience and £30 for fuel used. I think this is fair compensation for this 
poor service.
Hire car
Advantage gave him a hire car following the accident, which was in November. Some 
months later he heard from the hire car company that they were taking the car back and 
Advantage were no longer paying for it and Mr W would have to do so instead. But though it 
would have been better practice if Advantage had given him warning that theyd take it back,  
the policy does say that a courtesy car is not available if your car is stolen or is considered 
to be a total loss . So once Advantage had made what they considered to be a valid 
settlement offer for the total loss, even if Mr W didnt agree with the amount offered, 
Advantage were entitled to stop providing such a car. This a normal clause in car insurance 
policies and so I dont think that Advantage were unreasonable. In any event Advantage 
agreed to pay for the hire car until the hire company took it back later, so I think that was fair 
of them. 
The cars value 
Mr Ws car insurance policy says on page X that market value is:
  The cost of replacing your car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of a similar make, model, age and condition. Publications may be used 
which refer to vehicle values such as Glass's Guide to assess the market value, with an 
allowance being made for the mileage, condition and circumstances of purchase by you.
The investigator explained to Mr W what our approach was, regarding complaints about car 
valuations. We dont decide what the market value of a car is; we merely consider whether 
or not the insurer has reached a fair and reasonable amount having regard to the valuations 
in the trade guides. The prices in those guides are linked to likely monthly nationwide sales 
figures and we believe they give a reasonable and independent guide and take account of a 
number of factors including mileage, condition, and any extra features. Overall, we find them 
more persuasive than adverts.
I see that Advantage gave us evidence that in assessing Mr Ws cars market value, they 
had done so in accordance with our guidance, taking into account its model, additional 
features, and the actual mileage at the time of the cars loss. They used the valuations from 
two trade guides, which were £4,495 and £4,620. They offered him the higher of those two 
valuations, less his policy excess. 
The investigator checked those two guides and also looked at one other guide, but rightly 
discounted it as being out of line with the others. We would see as reasonable any market 
value offer within a reasonable range of the other two guides that Advantage used. And so I 
think that Advantage have followed our established process with regard to assessing market 
value and I think thats fair. 
But Mr W felt his car was worth more than Advantage had offered. He felt that it was a 
specialist car and he referred us to internet car sales sites which he said showed his make 
and model of car advertised for more than what Advantage had offered him. Differences in 
age, condition and mileage can of course create significant price differences. But as I 
explained, we still think that advertised prices allow for subjective profit and room for 
negotiation, and dont determine what a car actually sold for. Whereas the guides valuations 
are based on extensive nationwide research of what likely selling prices would have been. 
I still havent seen any persuasive evidence to override the trade guide valuation 
assessment that Advantage did. So, Im satisfied that Advantages process to assess Mr Ws 
cars market value was fair, and that the amount they offered him was reasonable. So I dont 
think that Advantage did anything wrong and I dont require them to offer any more. 
  Advantage sold Mr Ws car
 
When an insurer pays the consumer the market value of their car, the car becomes the 
insurers and they will normally sell it for salvage, but they can sell it back to the owner 
instead. Mr W wanted his car back and Advantage knew that, but Advantage sold it for 
salvage by mistake. I dont need to go into the detail of why that happened, as its not in 
dispute that Advantage were in the wrong and they accept liability for that. But suffice to say 
that it was very unfortunate, and I appreciate that Mr W thereby lost a car that he was very 
fond of and which he had hoped to repair himself. However I think that £500 in 
compensation that Advantage have agreed to pay, on the investigators recommendation, is 
reasonable compensation for that. So again, I dont require Advantage to pay any more than 
that.
My final decision
For the reasons given above its my final decision that I partly uphold the complaint and I 
require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
 
Pay Mr W and Mrs W £150 in compensation for their poor service and fuel 
reimbursement, if they havent done so already
Pay Mr W and Mrs W £500 in compensation for selling their car in error.
 
Advantage must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them that 
Mr W and Mrs W accept my final decision. If they pay later than they must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
