DRN-1655201
The complaint
Mr S complains Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma Loans are holding 
him responsible for repaying a loan he never agreed to take out. He wants them to stop 
pursuing him for the loan.
What happened
On 6 June 2019 a loan of £1000 was taken out in Mr Ss name with Satsuma Loans. Around 
this time five other loans were taken out in his name for different amounts.
Mr S says he didnt apply for the loans and wasnt aware of them until his mother checked 
his credit report and saw there were multiple credit searches recorded. He contacted 
Satsuma Loans and asked that they investigate the matter as fraud. Satsuma Loans didnt 
agree Mr S was the victim of fraud, so Mr S raised a complaint through our service.
Its important to say that Mr S has a medical condition which impacts on how he thinks, 
communicates and understands things. And he told Satsuma Loans about his condition 
when they were investigating his claim.
Satsuma Loans rejected the complaint. When Mr S first rang Satsuma Loans, he said his 
friend had told him he could take out loans in Mr Ss name, and Mr S wouldnt have to repay 
the loans but would receive some of the loan as commission. So, it found Mr S ought to be 
liable for the loan because he had agreed to what happened taking place.
An investigator at our service considered Mr Ss complaint and decided not to uphold it. In 
summary they found:
- Mr Ss version of what had happened wasnt plausible. He had given Satsuma Loans 
a very different story. He had also sent Satsuma Loans a letter which repeated that 
there was an agreement between Mr S and his friend to take out loans in Mr Ss 
name.
 
- Although Mr S said his friend helped him draft the letter, it was more likely what Mr S 
had said over the phone and in the letter was true. So, Mr S had agreed to take the 
loan out, even if he hadnt seen the loans terms and conditions. So, he should be 
responsible for repaying the loan.
Mr S disagreed with the outcome. He says he was already in debt when the loans were 
taken out. Satsuma Loans needed to perform more checks, such as looking at his bank 
statements and pay slips. He repeated he didnt know the loans would be taken out in his 
name; and not enough consideration had been given to how his medical condition affects his 
everyday life.
Mr S asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Did Mr S know the loans would be taken out?
Mr S has been inconsistent in what he said happened. He told our service he didnt know 
loans would be taken out in his name. He said his friend told him they accidentally sent 
funds to his account, which Mr S then withdrew. He said his friend had his account details 
from helping him arrange car insurance in the past.
But Mr S told Satsuma Loans something very different when he first reported his concerns. 
He said his friend said they could apply for loans in Mr Ss name and Mr S wouldnt have to 
worry about repayments, but he would receive commission. Mr S also wrote a letter to 
Satsuma Loans and asked to agree an affordable way forward to repay the loan, which said 
something similar. Mr S says his friend told him what to say when he wrote the letter, so it 
wasnt correct.
Mr S will be disappointed by what I have to say, but Im not persuaded he didnt know the 
loans would be taken out. The evidence points strongly to him knowing his friend would 
apply for loans in his name. His bank has provided evidence to show it asked him about the 
funds coming from payday lenders before he withdrew the money, which he didnt dispute at 
the time. Instead he gave answers about what the loans were for.
Should Mr S be liable for the loan because of his circumstances?
Satsuma Loans must consider the individual circumstances of its customers when making 
decisions that affect them, particularly when considering the needs of those who are 
vulnerable. There is a wealth of rules and guidelines which establish this, so there is no need 
to detail them here. 
Mr S suffers from a diagnosed medical condition. And from what I understand, one of the 
symptoms someone might have with this condition is difficulty understanding information. 
But this varies greatly between individuals. In his letter to Satsuma Loans, Mr S said his 
condition means he has trouble understanding basic concepts. He also says he sometimes 
has difficulty explaining his needs and sometimes has trouble remembering specific things.
Satsuma Loans asked Mr S for medical information to demonstrate how his condition affects 
him. Mr S provided information, which I have very carefully considered. The information 
confirms his condition, and it reveals his doctor said it affects his ability to manage his 
finances. But Im not satisfied the evidence shows he is affected by his condition so much 
that he doesnt understand how a loan works, or that Satsuma Loans would look to him to 
repay the loan.
One of the documents Mr S sent is a medical referral completed by his doctor. One of 
questions on the form was:
Does the Person have any difficulties or idiosyncrasies in: Imagination/make believe, 
Thinking abstractly,  Generalising concepts, Forward planning, Time management and 
organisation.
This has been answered as no, which would indicate Mr S is capable of understanding the 
consequences of taking out a loan and what interest is. Mr Ss credit file also shows he has taken loans out in the past. So, I dont think the concept of a loan and how it works is new to 
him.
But this doesnt mean Mr S wasnt vulnerable as a result of his condition. He may not have 
realised the seriousness of allowing his friend to apply for the loans in his name, like 
someone without his condition would. He may also have trusted his friend to keep his 
promise to repay the loans, but his friend didnt, and he was left with this responsibility. If this 
is what happened, it must have been very upsetting for him, and he has my sympathy.
From the information Mr S provided it appears he is getting help to address how what 
happened has made him feel. So, I dont doubt how much realising the extent of his debt has 
affected him. But its good to hear he is getting support to help him cope.
Affordability
Mr S says he wouldnt have passed affordability criteria had Satsuma Loans ran further 
checks. But a lender is under a duty to perform proportionate checks. And considering the 
size of the loan, Im not persuaded Satsuma Loans needed to verify the financial information 
they had through checking Mr Ss payslips or bank statements. 
The evidence points to Mr S agreeing to his friend pretending to be him to take out the loan. 
So, Im not persuaded Mr S wouldve provided correct information if Satsuma Loans had 
managed to contact him to check his identification. Its also unclear that the loan was 
unaffordable for Mr S, based on his income and expenditure. Satsuma Loans wouldnt have 
known about the other loans being taken out at the same time, so the cost of those other 
loans wouldnt have formed part of its affordability assessment.
Ive also considered that Mr S may have benefitted from some of the money he took out, 
although he says he gave it all to his friend. I say this because he told Satsuma Loans over 
the phone that he would receive some commission from the loan, so its possible some of 
the cash he withdrew was kept by him.
So, on balance, Im persuaded Mr S is liable for the loan because I think he agreed to it 
being taken out in his name. This doesnt, however, mean that Satsuma Loans shouldnt see 
what they can do to help him more easily repay the loan repayment if its unaffordable. 
Satsuma Loans has an obligation to see how they can help customers who are struggling 
with repayments, and to ensure a fair outcome for a vulnerable customer, which Mr S is 
because of his medical condition.
Ive reviewed Satsuma Loans records and it appears an affordable way forward to repay 
lesser amounts was agreed with Mr S that he has kept to. Satsuma Loans records indicate it 
went through an income and expenditure with Mr S; and the reduced payment amount was 
affordable. The reduced repayments are reported as a repayment plan to credit reference 
agencies, so it appears no default has been reported, which I know Mr S is very concerned 
about. I find Satsuma Loans has acted reasonably here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Liam KingOmbudsman