DRN-3582740
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to turn down a claim for 
storm damage they made on a home insurance policy.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D raised a claim on their home insurance policy with AXA for damage to their 
property. They said the damage was caused by high winds during a storm which had blown 
down a section of their boundary wall.
AXA said it couldnt be shown that the storm was the primary or effective cause of the 
damage to the wall. It said it was more likely that the wall had become damaged through 
natural wear and tear over time, and that the wind highlighted the problem.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed and provided an independent surveyors report to support their 
claim. AXA asked another surveyor to review the report and maintained its position to turn 
down the claim.
Mr and Mrs D werent happy with AXAs response and referred the matter to our service. In 
summary they said:
That their own surveyor had concluded the wall was in good condition and the 
damage was caused by the storm.
A neighbours wall had also blown down in the storm and their claim was settled. 
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommended the complaint be upheld. 
They concluded that on balance, the evidence from the three surveyors showed gaps in the 
mortar which supported AXAs findings of wear and tear. So, they concluded AXA had acted 
fairly in turning down the claim. 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. They added:
The storm conditions on the day of the loss were the strongest winds recorded for 40 
years.
The mortar identified by AXAs surveyor hadnt just de-bonded; Mr D had chipped the 
mortar from the bricks so they could be stored due to the safety risk.
The frost damage AXAs surveyor refers to is evidence on a different section of the 
wall. And in any event has only affected the face of the bricks, rather than the whole 
brick itself.
AXA hasnt acknowledged the counter arguments raised by their own surveyor in its 
response to turn down the claim.
AXAs surveyor completed a visual inspection of the damage only.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role isnt to determine exactly what caused the wall to fail, but rather to decide if AXAs 
decision to turn down the claim was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. AXAs position 
is that it hasnt been shown that a one-off storm was the predominant cause of the damage 
being claimed for. And that the damage was due to wear and tear over time.
I can see our investigator has set out our approach to dealing with complaints which involve 
damage by storms, so I dont intend to repeat that here. Im satisfied that clearly there were 
storm conditions around the time Mr and Mrs D claimed. And Im also satisfied that the 
damage they are claiming for is typical of damage which would be caused by high winds  
namely the collapse of a section of the boundary wall. 
So, Ill focus the remainder of my decision on the final question we ask, which is Was the 
storm the main cause of the damage?.
To answer this question, Ive considered the two reports provided by AXAs surveyors,       
Mr and Mrs Ds surveyor report, and the photographs which show the wall and the damage.
AXAs surveyor states, The damaged section is 1.9m wide by 15m long, the materials to the 
wall are suffering due to natural breakdown over a long time, the bricks are crumbling as is 
the mortar. There is evidence of previous pointing repairs to the wallit is our opinion that 
although the wall has come down during storm weather, the overall condition of the wall is 
the cause of the wall collapse. Had the bricks and mortar been in better condition the 
damage would not have occurred in our opinion.
Mr and Mrs Ds surveyor states, The overall condition of the remaining wall to the property 
is generally good. There are areas of pointing that have weatheredhowever the condition 
would be expected for the age and exposure of the wallThere was no cracking apparent to 
the remaining wall at low levelFrom the debris left after the initial clear up of the site, the 
mortar mix was one to be expected for such a conditionthere was no degradation evident 
to the residual mortar confirming that the wall integrity was good and that the degradation to 
the pointing was cosmeticin my opinion, the collapse of the wall occurred due to extreme 
weather conditionsand the resulting winds attributed to the storm.
AXAs second surveyor states, Althoughreported wind speeds of 71mph there appears to 
be some pre-existing faults within the wall. The mortar, especially at lower levels of the wall 
is in poor condition where some deterioration [is] evident. Also some of the mortar lying on 
the grass has easily de-bonded from the bricksFrost damage can be seen to some bricks.
I do accept Mr Ds point about the mortar on the ground being as a result of him chipping it 
away. But having considered everything Im not persuaded its sufficient to overturn AXAs 
decision to decline the claim.
Instead, the photographs show me areas of the wall where there are gaps in the brickwork 
near and around the site of collapse  particularly in the lower part of the wall as highlighted 
by AXAs surveyor. So whilst I dont dispute that the remaining wall may be in reasonable 
condition, I am persuaded on balance that the storm highlighted an underlying issue, likely 
linked to wear and tear, as opposed to being the main cause of the wall collapsing.
So, for this reason, I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman