DRN-2177717
The complaint
Mr D says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should take responsibility for 
the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mr D took out in August 1996. It was 
added to his account when he applied for the card when he was shopping in the store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr D is mainly concerned that PPI he didnt know he had PPI and he said that it must have 
been compulsory or not properly explained. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA has provided a copy of Mr Ds card application. I can see there is a separate section for 
PPI. 
Theres a brief description of the cover offered and it says here on the form If you want 
cover, please tick the box below 
Mr Ds completed application is ticked to indicate that he wanted the cover. 
I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI  but I think it wouldve been clear from the 
paperwork that it was up to Mr D to say if he wanted to have PPI added on. He couldve left 
this part of the form blank if he hadnt wanted PPI or crossed through it altogether  which is 
what he seems to have done on another part of the form that offered an optional extra he didnt 
want.
I would expect Mr D to have checked over the form carefully before signing up to this 
account  so I think he wouldve seen the PPI information which is reasonably clearly set out 
on the form. Mr D signed the completed application. So I think its fair to say that he must 
have agreed with the information on the form at the time. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think AXA made it clear that optional PPI was available with the 
store card and Mr D chose to take out the insurance.
AXA had to give Mr D enough information about the policy for him to be able to decide if he 
wanted it or not. And if this didnt happen, Ive thought carefully about whether this would 
make any difference overall.
I dont know if the information AXA gave Mr D about the PPI was as clear as it shouldve 
been  including the costs and benefits of the policy. But, based on what I know about Mr Ds 
circumstances, it looks like the policy couldve been useful to him. 
Although AXA cant show me the policy document that was in use on the exact date that 
Mr D took out his PPI, I've seen a policy document that was in use afterwards. So I think its 
likely that in all main respects the policy Mr D took out wouldve had similar terms and 
conditions. 
In the event of unemployment, accident or sickness the policy couldve paid a monthly 
benefit for up to 12 months  clearing the card balance outstanding at the start of the claim if 
Mr D wasnt well enough to go back to work. 
It wouldve paid out on top of sick pay, which couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time 
if Mr D had extra costs as a result of being too sick or disabled to work. 
Mr D cant provide anything to show that he wouldve been entitled to receive as much sick 
pay as he says he wouldve had. And it would be very unusual for someone to be 
guaranteed 12 months full sick pay. So I cant uphold this complaint just based on what 
Mr D says. 
Mr D also mentioned that he had up to 12 months worth of his pay saved up at the time. But 
Ive seen no details about this and I dont know if he wouldve always had savings to rely on 
if hed had to rely on these to cover his outgoings when he was unable to work.  
Taking into account what Mr D told us about his financial circumstances at the time I think 
Mr D couldve found PPI useful. 
I dont think having more information about policy exclusions and limitations wouldve made 
any difference to Mr Ds decision to take out PPI as these didnt affect Mr D. 
Mr D chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he seems to have wanted it at 
the time, even if hes forgotten this now. He indicated on the application form that he was 
happy to pay for the policy when he ticked next to where it says: Yes, I want my account 
covered by Payment ProtectionPlease debit my Account with the relevant premium until 
further notice. And Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable for him when he took it 
out. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mr D, I think it unlikely he wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think hed still have 
taken out the policy. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman