DRN-3701126
The complaint
Mr L complains about delays ITI Capital Limited caused while dealing with migration of his 
account from another firm and issues with accessing his account. 
What happened
Mr L says he submitted an ISA transfer from a previous firm (in administration) to ITI Capital 
Limited in June 2020. He says the onboarding process was delayed and he was unable to 
access his account for a prolonged period preventing him from checking his investments or 
his ISA allowance. He wasnt able to access his account until March 2021 and his ISA wasnt 
available until April 2021.
In addition to this, he says he was offered a six month period transfer out free of charge 
when he transferred to ITI. He says he intended to use this to decide whether he wanted to 
sell but as he wasnt able to access the account, he feels he has missed investment 
opportunities and will now be charged if he transfers his investments. He says he would 
have had this charge free period if the account was working as it should have been, so he 
says ITI should extend the charge free period to honour the full six months they initially 
offered him.
ITI recognised the delays theyd caused as well as the customer service issues so offered 
Mr L £300 in compensation. He rejected this as he said it took him more than two months 
and 30 hours of communications to deal with the issue causing him distress and 
inconvenience. He said this didnt adequately compensate him, so he asked us to consider 
his complaint. 
An investigator at this service considered the complaint and noted that the account Mr L had 
signed up to allowed him to trade on the platform, or via telephone and this was also 
confirmed in writing to all customers. Whilst, ITI accept there were issues with the online 
platform, they say he wasnt prevented from trading as he could have contacted ITI via 
telephone if he wished to trade. The investigator upheld the complaint for the level of service 
Mr L had received but didnt agree to compensate him any further as she thought the offer 
from ITI was in line with the redress this service would offer in cases like this.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators findings and so this has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I havent commented on every single point, Id like to assure Mr L that I have 
considered everything including the correspondence hes sent after the investigators view. 
Having done so, I will be upholding this complaint in part. Ill explain further.
Mr Ls complaint is primarily that during the migration period from another firm he was 
unable to access his accounts and it took ITI a long time to resolve this and in the 
meantime, he lost trading opportunities. So, I have first looked at whether there were 
issued with access to the accounts and then considered whether this resulted in loss of 
trading opportunities and transfer costs and if so, has this been adequately compensated 
for.
Access to account and loss of trading opportunities
The evidence Ive seen suggests the issues with account access continued for longer than 
the initial migration period and for much more than a year. Mr L complained in March 2021 
that he wasnt able to see all his holdings and that some were missing. He was informed that 
that not all his holdings were transferred to the accounts as they were not compatible with ITI 
accounts. He was advised that this was also mentioned in the FAQs when he signed up to 
the account. However, it also became apparent that Mr L hadnt fully understood the two 
accounts with his holdings and the customer service failings added to these issues. It took 
several months for ITI to explain that the holdings had been transferred to two accounts and 
to clarify which holdings had been delisted and which had been added to each account.
ITI in their final response accepted issues with their migration process and the service theyd 
provided to Mr L. They offered him £300 compensation, so I wont go into further detail on 
this point other than to consider the redress amount which Ive done below.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions to see what options are available to a consumer for 
trading. This is particularly important here as Mr L says he lost opportunity to trade because 
he didnt have access to his account. Section 7 considers dealings between the company 
and client. At 7.1, it is stated that:
In accordance with these Terms, the Client may request a quotation, provide the 
Company [] with instructions or trade with the Company as follows:
a) All requests for quotations, Instructions for execution of Transactions between the 
Client and the Company and other trade matters must be given to the Company face 
to face, electronically through the Trading Facility or by telephoning the Company 
[or an Associated Company who will receive and transmit the Clients Instructions to 
the Company].
I recognise that Mr L says he wasnt aware he could trade via telephone, but it is his 
responsibility to ensure he had read the terms and conditions of the account and so he 
should have been aware that he could contact ITI to trade via telephone. In addition, this 
information was available on their website and he was also advised in March 2021 that he 
could instruct trades by calling the dealing team. 
I appreciate that Mr L contacted ITI about the problems with the platform but thats not the 
same thing as ITI preventing him from making a specific trade when they did provide an 
alternative method of trading, by phone. There is no record of him having made use of this, 
nor can I see from any of the evidence that he mentioned he wanted to make any trade. By 
his own admission, he says he wanted to use the charge free transfer period to decide if he 
wanted to sell his holdings. As such, Im not satisfied that Mr L lost any opportunity to trade 
as a result of any wrongdoing on ITIs part. 
Additional cost of transfer now
ITI informed its customers that they would be charging £25 per line of stock for a transfer out 
charge after 25th March 2021. This information was updated in their business rate card in January 2021 and was also advised to their clients on 30 October 2020 and so I am satisfied 
the information was clear.
ITI also confirmed that a charge free transfer period was offered for trades placed via 
telephone but Mr L failed to use this opportunity to trade. As I dont think any loss of 
opportunity to trade was as a result of any wrongdoing on ITIs part, it follows that I dont 
think ITI need to continue to offer the charge free transfer period. 
Putting things right
ITI already accepted their failings in the onboarding process and customer service, so they 
offered Mr L £300 in compensation. I think this amount is fair and reasonable and is in line 
with the kind of compensation we would expect a business to pay for this type of complaint. 
I recognise how strongly Mr L feels about this, and I know he will be disappointed with my 
decision, but I cant fairly say that they should pay more as he hasnt actually suffered any 
financial loss as a result of their actions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint against ITI Capital Limited. They should 
pay Mr L the £300 compensation offered, if this has not already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman