DRN-2810548
The complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) sold by Lloyds Bank 
PLC, trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G). 
For consistency Ill refer mainly to Lloyds in my decision.
What happened
Mrs and Mr S took out a C&G mortgage in 2001. However, it seems they borrowed more 
money (topping up their mortgage) on six further occasions in 2002, March 2003, June 2003, 
2005, 2008 and 2012.
PPI was taken out alongside two of these further borrowing events  in 2002 and June 2003. 
These two policies covered Mr S in the event of him losing his job or being too ill to work. 
Although all the lending was in joint names, Mrs S wasnt ever covered on the PPI.
One of our adjudicators looked into this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. But 
Mrs and Mr S disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold 
the complaint. 
I see Mrs and Mr S are represented in this matter by a third-party company. On the 
questionnaire we asked them to fill out about their points of complaint, Mr and Mrs S say the 
PPI was added without their consent and they didnt know about it. They also say it wasnt 
something they needed or wanted. They added that their parents would have helped out if 
they ever had fallen into financial difficulties, so the PPI wasnt required. And they also cite 
life insurance policies and the sickness protection Mr S enjoyed with his job as reasons for 
the PPI being of no use to them. I looked carefully into all these points.
However, I dont think the issue about them being sold PPI without their knowledge or 
consent is borne out in what Ive seen in the evidence Im afraid. These events were a long 
time ago, so whilst I dont doubt this is what they may genuinely feel now, the evidence 
shows they agreed to have PPI set up to protect these two portions of their borrowing.
I know this because their original mortgage applications in respect of the 2002 and June 
2003 lending have sections on them about PPI, where a box could either be ticked  or 
indeed left unticked  depending on whether or not this type of insurance was required. On 
both these loan applications, the box was ticked on their forms. 
My experience from the C&G mortgage sales Ive seen from around the time period in 
question is that consumers were usually asked to undergo another step, in the form of a 
separate PPI application. This went in to more detail about the type of protection they 
wanted and who should be covered. I believe this happened on both the 2002 and June 
2003 occasions too. Mrs and Mr S would have also needed to authorise the PPI monthly 
premiums to leave their bank account by way of a direct debit  Ive seen such evidence for 
both these sales.
So, Im afraid I simply cant agree that PPI was sold twice without any consent  the 
evidence to the contrary is strong, in my view. Mrs and Mr S applied for and agreed to, the 
PPI.
I also think Mrs and Mr S would have known PPI wasnt something they needed to buy. Not 
only did they tick the PPI boxes as Ive said  which would have demonstrated the optional 
nature of the policy  but they had operated their first bout of lending (2001) without PPI. By 
definition therefore, I can reasonably say that they would have been able to see that it wasnt 
something you needed to have with a mortgage, because their first lending event was 
without PPI. I see they did this later-on again  borrowed without PPI  in March 2003.
All this points, in my view, to Mrs and Mr S having a discussion about mortgage protection 
and agreeing to buy this type of cover. 
I do accept that their take-up of the PPI cover overall was somewhat unusual in that they 
had PPI with some lending events, and not others. And I cant say why they opted for 
mortgage protection in this way. The notes from the sale(s) we sometimes get to see, are 
somewhat sparse in this sense, and they dont really help me much. But I do have to take 
account that this complaint relates to sales which were some 18 and 19 years ago 
respectively. Businesses arent required to keep all paperwork indefinitely so I dont think the 
absence of documents is unusual here. 
What I can say is that consent for these two PPI policies appears present each time, and 
both consents appear properly and openly obtained. And its obviously possible that Mrs and 
Mr S calculated that covering some of their mortgage (as opposed to all of it) was what they 
wanted to do in the circumstances.
My finding is therefore that Lloyds obtained their consent and Mrs and Mr S would have 
known such cover existed at the time. 
Its not disputed that the PPI was recommended each time to Mrs and Mr S as part of 
advised sales. This means Lloyds told them of the existence of the PPI cover and put it 
forward as being a suitable form of mortgage protection for them. Again, Im conscious of the 
unusual take up of PPI for two, out of seven, borrowing occasions. Nevertheless, the PPI 
wasnt unsuitable, even though it only covered a portion of their total borrowing.
Mrs and Mr S may have come to the conclusion that the other forms of protection or means 
they had elsewhere (for example Mr Ss sick pay, or perhaps some savings) went some way 
towards providing a certain amount of reassurance. They may have factored this in to how 
much PPI cover they wanted. Mr S was also eligible for the PPI and not caught by any of 
the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The cost of the PPI also seems 
affordable on each occasion for them. The first policy cost £12.50 and the second added on 
another £2.50 per month. For this they would have been able to claim up to around £166 per 
month to help with their overall mortgage repayment, if Mr S had been unable to work or lost 
his job completelyAs Ive said at the outset, to help demonstrate that they didnt need PPI, Mrs and Mr S told 
us Mr S already had some sickness protection through his job and that family members 
would have always stepped in to help if needed. They also quoted some life assurance 
cover they had.
I do understand the points being made, and I acknowledge Mr Ss sick pay did seem very 
generous. We were initially told he had between 6  12 months sick pay, but the company 
representing him later said the sick pay with his job was even better than this, although it 
supplied information to back this up which didnt match the PPI sale dates. Nevertheless, I 
expect Mr Ss sick pay to have been fairly good. 
However, Im afraid this alone doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. The 
mortgage(s) were secured against their home and so the consequences of not being able to 
make the repayments could have been serious. The cover would have paid for up to 12 
months, thus supporting Mrs and Mr S financially. And although Im sure their family would 
have intended to help as much as possible, I dont think committing to help over the long 
term of a mortgage is a credible alternative to insurance. 
I therefore dont think Lloyds putting forward recommendations of this nature was 
unreasonable and Mrs and Mr S seem to have accepted the advice sometimes, but not 
others. Ultimately, I think this type of cover was suitable for Mrs and Mr S.
Lloyds also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I obviously 
cant confirm what would have been said to Mrs and Mr S and its possible Lloyds could 
have done a better job in explaining things. But from what Ive seen, I think the disclosure of 
information looks quite comprehensive on each of the two occasions they were sold PPI. Its 
clear they met with a mortgage adviser each time and I think their wider finances would have 
been discussed. 
Finally, I also think its likely theyd have been given accompanying documents explaining 
the terms. This partly returns us to the first point about the PPI cover being something Mrs 
and Mr S never knew about. But for this to happen twice seems unlikely and I see no reason 
why two paid-for monthly PPI policies would not generate the creation of the policy 
documents in the usual way. Clearly, if mistakes had been made during the sales and Mrs 
and Mr S never really meant to buy the two policies  then they would have wanted to know 
why they were paying for them every month. On the second occasion they would see the 
payments increasing.
In summary then, Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr S. However, the evidence Ive 
seen points to them properly agreeing to these two policies. They also authorised the 
payments, would have most likely received relevant documentation, and known this type of 
cover wasnt compulsory with a mortgage. 
Im afraid I dont agree that the policies were mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Ss complaint. And I dont direct 
Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 Michael Campbell
Ombudsman