DRN-3261690
The complaint
Mr S complains that a vehicle he has been financing through an agreement with FCA 
Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA) was misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) explains that finance providers are liable for 
what they say and for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier before the consumer takes 
out the credit agreement. So, if Mr S was told something that was false and if that false 
statement led him to enter into an agreement he wouldnt otherwise have entered into, I 
would think the agreement had been misrepresented to him and Id ask FCA to take some 
action.
Here, however, I dont think Mr S was given a false statement of fact. Whilst some cars are 
made to order it is not unusual for others to sit in storage for some time before being first 
registered. I accept FCAs position that a car is new when it hasnt had any owners and 
when the odometer is very close to zero. That was the case with Mr Ss car.
Mr S didnt receive an older specification than he ordered, and I havent seen that his 
warranty was impacted by the fact the car had been stored for a time. I dont think the resale 
value would have suffered either as the registration date was the one rightly recorded on the 
documentation. So, it seems he hasnt been disadvantaged by the storage of the car.
I understand that Mr S had to have some repairs completed on the car within the first 15,000 
miles. Ive considered whether this suggests the storage of the car had impacted on its 
durability, or whether that work would render the car of unsatisfactory quality and suggest 
thered therefore been a breach of contract. I dont think I have sufficient evidence that was 
the case. Brakes are a wear and tear item and the wear they experience will depend on a 
number of factors including driving style and traffic conditions. I therefore think some repair 
work on them could fairly be considered normal, even after such limited mileage.
Overall, whilst I can see Mr S feels strongly about this matter Im afraid I dont think theres 
evidence the car was misrepresented to him or that its been of unsatisfactory quality. Im not 
therefore asking FCA to take any further action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman