DRN-3423627
The complaint
 A partnership which Ill refer to as N, complains that when it approached National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) to open an account, the bank gave it misleading 
information which caused it to select the wrong type of account to be opened. 
One of Ns partners Mr C brings the complaint on the partnerships behalf. 
 
What happened
 The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so, I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly, N has told us that:
In January 2019 it contacted NatWest to say it needed to open a US Dollar account 
and asked the bank to send it the account opening forms for completion. 
A relationship manager at the bank, Mr K, sent N the relevant forms which included a 
currency account application form. 
Mr H, an employee of N completed the application form on its behalf. In the section 
on the form marked Type of Account there were two options: a box for a current 
account and another for a currency reserve account. There was also another section 
marked Currency Required. For that section Mr H selected USD. 
However, when it came to the Type of Account, N said Mr H was unsure which of 
the two boxes to tick. So, on 21 January 2019 he phoned the bank for help and 
spoke to Mr K. And based on his conversation with Mr K, Mr H ticked the box 
indicating N wished to open the current account. On behalf of N, Mr C signed the 
application form and returned it to the bank. NatWest opened the current account 
(the Account) as instructed which was intended to hold funds belonging to one of Ns 
clients.   
In December 2019, N enquired what level of interest was paid on the Account. But 
NatWest told N that it was not interest-bearing. According to N that was the first it 
knew of the position and it blamed NatWest for opening the wrong account.
 
NatWest didnt think they were at fault. In their final response letter, they said after reviewing 
the account opening documents which Mr C had signed, they were satisfied theyd opened 
the correct account for N. They also said they were unable to find any records of the phone 
conversation Mr H allegedly had with Mr K on 21 January 2019. However, NatWest said they 
regretted to hear that during that phone conversation, potentially N may have been given 
unhelpful information. So, a gesture towards any inconvenience N may have experienced, 
NatWest credited Ns account with £1,000 as compensation. Later, the bank opened a 
currency reserve account for N which is an interest-bearing account. 
N didnt think NatWest had done enough to put things right. In addition to the action they had 
taken so far, N wanted NatWest to also pay N the interest that would have accrued had the 
currency reserve account been opened in the first place. 
Our investigator didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong. He observed that Mr H did 
tick the box requesting the opening of a current account even though the option to open a 
currency reserve account was also available. 
Although he noted Ns submission that when completing the application form Mr H relied on 
information he allegedly received from Mr K during their 21 January 2019 phone 
conversation, he said since the bank had no record of the phone call he was unable to 
determine the nature of that discussion. 
But the investigator noted NatWests final response acknowledgement regarding the 21 
January 2019 phone call between Mr H and Mr K for which it had already paid 
compensation. He believed the £1000 compensation was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Ns case and therefore NatWest neednt take any further action. 
N didnt accept the investigators conclusion and so its case has been passed to me for 
review and final decision. In its submission N has made a number of detailed points. No 
discourtesy is intended towards N but I summarise those I regard as the key ones as follows:
The recording of the 21 January 2019 telephone call would have demonstrated the 
accuracy of Ns evidence that based on what Mr K told Mr H he ticked the box 
indicating N wanted to open the Account. The loss of the call recording by NatWest 
should not weigh in its favour.
Mr H had no previous experiencing of opening accounts with the bank. In January 
2019 he told NatWest that the account N wanted to open was intended for a client. 
So, in effect N was asking the bank for an application form to open an account similar 
to those it already held on behalf of its other clients - which were interest bearing. 
Furthermore, after the application form was submitted to NatWest, on 22 January 
2019, Mr K wrote to N to apologise for failing to note the Account was intended for a 
third party client and asked N to complete an additional form  known as a Non-
Financial Intermediary Form in order to put things right.  Mr K failed to notice the 
Account was not interest bearing and omitted to question why the account being 
opened was different to that of the typical client deposit accounts held at the bank.
In any event from their final response letter it seems NatWest accepted they may 
have provided N with incorrect information in the January 2019 phone call. And as 
well apologizing, they paid compensation to N. But since a significant loss has 
occurred because of the banks failings, its compensation hasnt gone far enough. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 There is no dispute as indeed the opening documentation shows that on Ns behalf Mr H 
ticked the box indicating N wished to open a current account rather than the currency 
reserve account. Mr H also indicated the currency required was US Dollars and Mr C signed 
the application form confirming those instructions to the bank.Having therefore opened the Account for N - a current account which by ticking the box N 
instructed the bank to open, it would be difficult to conclude NatWest did anything wrong. 
But I note it is Ns case that it was guided towards that selection on the basis of information 
provided in a telephone conversation between Mr H and Mr K on 21 January 2019. It is also 
Ns case that the incorrect information related to the specific box Mr H needed to select for 
the type of account N required. 
As noted above, unfortunately, the bank has no recording the 21 January 2019 phone call. 
And NatWest have told us Mr K is no longer employed at the bank and therefore cannot 
provide a statement of his recollection of the 21 January 2019 events. The bank says the 
only items of evidence thats currently available are the opening documents and email 
exchanges between Mr K and Mr H at the time. 
Given the absence of any call recording on 21 January 2019, I am unable to determine what 
was said and what information or guidance was given to Mr H by Mr K. So, Ive had to base 
my decision on the evidence that is available and where it is unclear or inconclusive, Ive 
come to a decision on balance of probabilities  that is to say what is more likely to have 
occurred based on the actual evidence available. 
To that end Ive considered the January 2019 e-mail exchanges between Mr H and Mr K. 
Ive considered carefully too the statement Mr H has very helpfully provided in support of Ns 
case.  
I start by saying that in general if a customer of a bank asks it for information on a matter, it 
is reasonable for the customer to expect that where the bank provides such information it is 
accurate. 
With that in mind, in the circumstances of Ns case for me to be able to conclude that in 
January 2019 NatWest was at fault by giving N wrong information, I have to be persuaded N 
was clear in terms of the information it asked the bank for, the response to which the bank 
gave it wrong information. 
I do not doubt that in January 2019 N intended to open an account for one of its clients. But 
Im not persuaded that when N first approached the bank that was made clear. In Ns email 
dated 10 January 2019 it asked NatWest for forms to open a US Dollar account. There was 
no mention it was for a client. NatWest sent the relevant forms. Im not persuaded the wrong 
forms were sent to N.  
After the currency application form was returned, on 22 January 2019, and the day after N 
has told us the conversation between Mr H and Mr K regarding its completion took place, 
Mr K wrote to Mr H as follows: 
I am just in the process of looking at your new US Dollar account you would like to 
be opened. Apologies but I was not aware that this account was to be used to hold 
funds on behalf of a third party. As this is the case, we will need a non-financial 
intermediary form to be completed.
This was then arranged as N has told us. 
It is of course Ns case, that the phone conversation with Mr K, that took place a day earlier 
 on 21 January 2019 - he specifically explained that the Account was intended to hold funds 
for a client.Mr Ks email does not refer to the telephone conversation. More importantly, given the 
detailed nature of the discussion Mr H said took place - including his explanation that the 
Account was intended for one of Ns clients, on such a critical point, it is difficult to see how 
Mr K could have so misinterpreted that discussion given the contents of his e-mail. 
That being said, the completion of the non-financial intermediary form did put that right. So, 
what made the Account the wrong type was its failure to attract interest. which is also at the 
heart of Ns case. And the reason for that as it argues was that NatWest directed it towards 
opting for the Account. 
So, Ive considered very carefully Mr Hs evidence on that point. Mr H said he made it clear 
that the account was required to hold money for a client. And that hed noted that the 
currency account application form made reference to the possibility interest may be paid into 
another account. He said the fact that interest was mentioned led him to believe when 
discussing the Account with Mr K that it was an interest-bearing account that they were 
discussing. But importantly Mr H acknowledged Mr K did not ask him about interest or 
mention that the Account was not an interest-bearing account and he did not feel any need 
to clarify this. 
But given this was such an important component in Ns decision regarding the choice of 
account it wouldnt have been an unreasonable expectation that this would be specifically 
discussed and clarified by Mr H. 
On balance it seems to me that Mr Hs evidence supports the proposition that he himself 
assumed the Account was interest bearing. He had no discussion with Mr K as to whether or 
not that was the case because he didnt think he needed to. That suggests in all likelihood 
Mr K was not asked which account Mr H needed to opt for to ensure interest was received 
and that in turn Mr K directed him to tick the wrong box on the application form.
I appreciate N has explained that since NatWest held other clients accounts that were 
interest bearing Mr K should with that knowledge have alerted Mr H that the Account wasnt 
an appropriate account for N. However, I do not agree.  I do not find the bank had an 
obligation to question the type of account it was being asked to open.
I turn next to NatWests decision to pay N £1000 as compensation.  
NatWest have said the £1000 was paid as a goodwill gesture only. I do not interpret the 
banks final response letter as an acceptance it had done anything wrong for which it had 
agreed to pay compensation. It seems to me the bank was doing no more than 
acknowledging what it had been told by N about the 21 January 2019 conversation. And 
indeed, it commented it was unable to substantiate from its records what was allegedly said 
in the conversation. So, I do not find the offer was anything other than a gesture of goodwill 
as indicated by the bank rather than an acceptance that it had done anything wrong 
My final decision
  For the reasons stated above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman