DRN-3664604
The complaint
Mr W complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) (VM) acted unfairly 
when he brought a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) about 
goods he paid for with his VM credit card.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr W bought a computer online costing around £5,000 using his VM credit 
card. Not long after he realised this was the 2017 model not 2020. He wanted to return the 
goods to the retailer (that Ill call A) but he was unable to speak to anyone due to As 
pandemic restrictions. Mr W contacted VM and raised a claim under section 75 for a refund. 
Hes unhappy that VM rejected this claim and he says his credit rating was adversely 
affected by information VM reported incorrectly on his credit file. 
VM accepted a dispute status should have been applied to Mr Ws account which would, 
essentially, have put the account on hold while the matter was investigated. This didnt 
happen at first so a late payment fee was applied in March 2021 and this was reported to 
credit reference agencies (CRAs). VM apologised, as this is not how the matter should have 
been handled. And it refunded the relevant charge and agreed to correct Mr Ws credit file 
and pay him £75 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. VM didnt 
uphold Mr Ws section 75 claim however because it didnt think there was evidence of a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
Unhappy with that response, Mr W referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
reviewed the evidence and he didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He didnt 
think it was unfair of VM to decline Mr Ws section 75 claim. He said sale paperwork didnt 
specify a year for the computer and this isnt displayed on As website either so the goods 
werent misrepresented. Mr W didnt have any quality issues so the investigator wasnt 
persuaded there was a breach of contract - and he was satisfied Mr W didnt try to send the 
item back in time under As standard returns policy. He thought it was fair of VM to attempt a 
chargeback but hes not persuaded it should have pursued this further after it was 
successfully challenged by A. The investigator acknowledged VM had accepted some 
mistakes were made - there was delay and Mr Ws credit file was impacted adversely. But, 
he was satisfied that VM refunded relevant charges and credited Mr Ws account with £75 
compensation, which seems fair - and rectified his credit record. He didnt think VM should 
have to do anything further.
Mr W was disappointed with this outcome. He said when you buy something from a 
company that updates products as frequently as this manufacturer, its not unreasonable to 
expect the latest model to be supplied. Our investigator checked and the 2017 version was 
the most recent model of this particular computer - so A did supply the most up to date 
version. He didnt change his view and Mr W remained unhappy and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter. 
Mr W feels he was misled because A didnt make it clear that this was old stock. He thinks 
the 2017 model was discontinued due to issues with overheating and says he would have 
bought a different computer  that could be upgraded and have better re-sale value - if hed 
known. He feels a court might take a different view about whats right. And he doesnt think 
£75 is fair compensation - as VM has likely already recouped that in interest charged. 
Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators however and I thought it was fair to let 
the parties see my provisional findings and respond (if they wanted to) before I made my 
final decision. I issued a provisional decision on 21 July 2022. Ive set out what I decided 
provisionally (and why) below  this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I can see that Mr W feels strongly about what happened here. I want to assure him that I 
have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. If I dont address every single 
point thats been raised its not because I havent thought about it. I have. But, Im going to 
concentrate in this decision on what I think is key to reaching and fair and reasonable 
outcome overall. The rules of our service - which provides alternative dispute resolution 
thats free for complainants - allow me to do this, and a court may take a different view.
Section 75
Mr W brings his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service under section 75 because 
he bought this computer using his VM credit card. And section 75 says (broadly speaking) a 
borrower may be able to bring an equal claim under an agreement with a supplier, like A, 
against a credit provider (VM) where theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
I should make it clear at the outset however that its not my role to apply section 75  only a 
court can do that. Instead, Im looking at whether VM has taken appropriate steps in 
response to Mr Ws section 75 claim. I make my decision based on what I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. Im required to take taking relevant law (among 
other things) into account. I think section 75 is relevant here and Ive gone on to consider 
whether there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by A.
Misrepresentation
In order for me to find theres been a misrepresentation, Id need to be satisfied that A told 
Mr W something untrue and he reasonably relied on that when he entered the agreement to 
buy the computer. Mr W made this purchase via As website. Ive seen a screenshot of the 
website page displaying the relevant item and Ive also considered paperwork A sent Mr W. 
Im satisfied its not stated on the web page or in the purchase order or the invoice that the 
computer to be supplied to Mr W was a different model to the one he ordered and received. 
And I cant fairly conclude that a misrepresentation was made, from the evidence Ive seen.
I appreciate Mr W was expecting the computer to be a 2020 model - and he feels A should 
have highlighted the fact this one wasnt made in that year. But, I think it was up to Mr W to 
satisfy himself that the item he ordered was the model he wanted and check this would suit 
his needs  such as the ability to upgrade or retain its resale value- going forward. 
Like the investigator, I checked the production history of this particular computer. Im 
satisfied that it was produced in 2017 and hasnt been updated since  so there is no 2020 model. It looks as if the manufacturer announced in March 2021 that this model was 
discontinued. And I understand Mr Ws frustration about that. But, I cant fairly find this 
means theres been a misrepresentation by A about the computer he purchased almost a 
year before. 
Breach of contract
Im satisfied that S was required (under the Consumer Rights Act 2015) to ensure that goods 
provided of are satisfactory quality. I appreciate Mr W says the model he got is known to 
have some issues but Ive seen no evidence of that. Ive got nothing to show that the 
computer Mr W actually received was faulty. And Im not persuaded theres been a breach of 
contract.
Chargeback
Like the investigator, Ive also given some thought to the process known as chargeback. 
This allows a customer to ask for a transaction to be reversed if theres an issue with goods 
or services they paid for using a credit or debit card. Whether a chargeback succeeds or not 
is decided under the relevant card scheme rules (which is Mastercard here). Theres no 
automatic right to a chargeback but we generally think a financial business should attempt 
one - if theres a reasonable chance of success. Its for the financial business to decide if a 
chargeback is likely to succeed however - albeit we expect the business to make that 
assessment on a reasonable basis.
I can see that VM did raise a chargeback in relation to this transaction but A was able to 
dispute that successfully. Ive seen nothing to suggest that VM didnt deal with the 
chargeback properly. And Ive got no reason to think that a chargeback is likely to have 
succeeded if VM had presented it again. Im satisfied that VM did what wed expect in this 
situation and I cant reasonably say it should have done more.
credit file and other issues
VM accepts that some mistakes were made - in that a dispute marker should have been 
applied to Mr Ws account sooner, in line with its usual process. And, if this had happened, a 
late payment marker and charge wouldnt have been applied in March 2021. It looks as if VM 
has refunded the late payment charge and taken steps to remove the related adverse 
information from Mr Ws credit file for that month - which seems fair. Our investigator asked 
Mr W to confirm that this issue was now resolved. He said its not  but he hasnt explained 
why exactly or supplied any further information. I can see Mr W told us previously that he 
thought VM had reported incorrect information to his credit file five times. Im not clear 
however what he means by this or which period it relates to.
From records VM supplied, the account seems to have been held in dispute between April 
and June 2021 - so no adverse information should have been reported during this time. Im 
satisfied VM told Mr W that the dispute marker was removed in June 2021 - after it declined 
the section 75 claim and paid compensation. So, I think he was made aware that he needed 
to make his monthly payments on the usual terms after that. Account statements Ive seen 
show a late payment charge in August 2021. Im not sure if VM reported that to CRAs and 
this is the adverse reporting Mr W objects to. Ive seen nothing however to show that any of 
the information VM reported  aside from the mistake it acknowledged for March 2021 - was 
inaccurate. Looking at the statements, there appear to be no late payment charges in April, 
May and June. And Im satisfied VM seems to have put the March error right, from other 
information it provided. 
I can see VM credited Mr Ws account with £75 compensation for the errors it acknowledged - which seems reasonable. I dont have any evidence to show that Mr W lost out financially 
(or otherwise) because of mistakes VM made. And, on the current information, Im unable to 
reasonably require VM to do anything further. 
For the reasons set out, Im not persuaded there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation here and I cant fairly find it was wrong of VM to decline Mr Ws section 75 
claim. I think VM did what wed expect as regards the chargeback. And Im satisfied VM has 
apologised for the mistake in March 2021, refunded charges, rectified Mr Ws credit file and 
paid fair compensation for that. Im minded to find VM has provided a fair and reasonable 
response to Mr Ws complaint. So I cant reasonably require VM to pay more compensation 
or do anything else. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any comments or 
new evidence by 18 August 2022 and Id review all the evidence available after that and 
make my final decision.
Both parties have acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision. Neither party had 
anything further to add and I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional 
conclusions in the circumstances. Im not persuaded there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation here. I cant fairly find it was wrong of VM to decline Mr Ws section 75 
claim. And I think VM did what wed expect as regards the chargeback. Im also satisfied that 
VM apologised for mistakes made in March 2021 and refunded charges, rectified Mr Ws 
credit file and paid fair compensation for that. 
In light of the above, I consider VM has provided a fair and reasonable response to Mr Ws 
complaint overall and I cant reasonably require VM to pay more compensation or do 
anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman