DRN-3585072
The complaint
Mr S complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as TrustTwo irresponsibly provided 
him with a loan that was unaffordable.  
What happened
Mr S was given a single loan by TrustTwo. The main loan details are as follows:
Date taken Loan amount Number of 
monthly 
instalmentsTypical 
monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
payable
January 2020 £10,000 60 £394.58 £23,674.80
The stated loan purpose was debt consolidation  in other words, Mr S said he would use 
the loan to repay other debt.
Mr S complained that TrustTwo ought to have known that he could not afford to repay the 
loan and that he would need to borrow further in order to make the repayments. He told us 
he got into further debt and financial hardship as a result. 
When Mr S complained to TrustTwo it didnt uphold the complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. He felt that although the loan mightve 
looked affordable, the lender wasnt in a position to make a fair lending decision without 
more information. So he felt that this was a complaint we should uphold and he set out the 
steps TrustTwo should take to put things right.
TrustTwo disagreed with our investigators view. In brief summary, TrustTwo said that using 
the loan for debt consolidation would have increased Mr Ss disposable income by around 
£740 and so improved his overall financial situation significantly. It said an up to date credit 
report didnt show any evidence of financial harm or material distress resulting from the loan 
even though Mr S didnt in the event fully use its loan for the planned debt consolidation.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
Its important to keep in mind that when working out if a loan looks likely to be affordable a 
lender must take a borrower focussed approach and think about the impact of the lending 
on the customer. The lending decision shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender 
of not getting its money back.
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay 
the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere. The rules dont say what a 
lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and proportionate checks 
should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend 
on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, 
the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a 
lender should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or 
more money problems for a borrower already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way.
This was a guarantor loan which means that if Mr S didnt make his loan repayments, 
TrustTwo was entitled to ask the guarantor to do this in his place. But TrustTwo still needed 
to take all reasonable steps to ensure that the loan was sustainably affordable for Mr S in the 
first place. 
I've kept all these things in mind when thinking about Mr Ss complaint.
TrustTwo gathered some information from Mr S before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income and verified this using a credit checking service. It wanted to know what 
he spent on rent or a mortgage. Mr S told TrustTwo he paid £450 per month towards his 
mortgage. TrustTwo obtained a credit report to find out about Mr Ss credit history and relied 
on statistical information which indicated what the likely living expenses would be for 
someone in Mr Ss particular circumstances based on national UK averages. 
Mr Ss monthly take home pay was recorded as £4,200. After reviewing the information on 
the credit report it obtained and taking into account how much it thought Mr S would be likely 
to spend over the month, TrustTwo worked out that if he used the loan for debt 
consolidation, Mr S should still have a cash surplus each month of £400 or so. So TrustTwo 
concluded that the monthly repayment for this loan shouldve been affordable for him and he 
would have extra monthly disposable income by using its loan to consolidate other debt. 
On this basis, TrustTwo concluded that it was fair to provide this loan to Mr S  and it still 
thinks this. 
Ive carefully taken into account everything TrustTwo has said  including comments made 
in response to our investigators view. 
Our investigator thought TrustTwo needed to do further checks before agreeing this loan. 
I dont think I need to make a finding on whether its checks were proportionate or not 
because it makes no overall difference to the outcome and its not why I am upholding this complaint. I think TrustTwo saw enough detail in the information it had gathered to realise 
that Mr S was already in serious financial difficulty and that further lending was unlikely to be 
sustainable. And thats why it shouldnt have provided this loan.  
I say this because it was aware that Mr S had a history of reliance on expensive high cost 
credit and there were clear signs that he was over-stretched financially. Despite recording 
information that appeared to show that Mr S had enough spare cash each month to cover 
the loan monthly repayments, I think TrustTwo shouldve realised that it couldnt rely on this 
information. Thats because Trusttwo hadnt checked to see how Mr S was actually spending 
his money and what Mr S had declared was significantly at odds with what TrustTwo saw in 
the information it had gathered during the loan application process.
The credit report TrustTwo relied on showed that Mr S was an established user of expensive 
credit with a substantial five figure amount of debt  close to £40,000 - owing on at least 20 
active accounts that seems to have included credit cards, bank accounts, short term and/or 
unsecured loans, vehicle finance, communications and home credit accounts. In addition, he 
had outstanding borrowing of more than £270,000 secured on his home. 
Trusttwo saw that he had two delinquent accounts that had run into payment problems in 
May 2018  they had both been in arrangements to pay with one having just cleared and the 
other with a £99 balance to pay. Within the six months running up to him applying for this 
loan, Mr S had taken out loans that looked like expensive short-term and/or unsecured loans 
amounting to around £17,000. Mr S was asked why he needed to borrow these loans and he 
said it was just for cash flow for Christmas and some home improvements. He explained that 
one large loan for £10,00 taken out in July 2019 had been used to pay for a vehicle that had 
since been sold. The balance still showing on his credit report for this loan was £695.  
Having other outstanding lending or even an impaired credit history wouldnt be unusual for 
a borrower applying for this type of expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt necessarily be a bar 
to lending. But I dont think TrustTwo took properly into account what the information it had 
gathered showed about Mr Ss overall financial situation and the likelihood of him being able 
to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
I think our investigator was right to say that all the indications were that Mr S wasnt 
managing his money well and he was already struggling financially. I believe it ought to have 
been apparent to TrustTwo that Mr S probably didnt have the amount of disposable income 
that it thought and the signs were that his finances were, in reality, under significant stress 
and his debt was already unmanageable. 
To my mind, the picture painted overall showed that Mr S was already over-reliant on using 
expensive credit and the signs were that he was increasing his dependency on using credit 
to manage his financial situation. And this loan looked like a continuation of that pattern of 
lending.
I dont think TrustTwo was reasonably able to be satisfied in these circumstances that Mr S 
would be able to make its loan repayments in a sustainable way.
I've taken into account that TrustTwo understood that the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation. But it paid the loan directly to Mr S and didnt have control over how he used 
the money  so there was always a risk that this loan would add to his overall 
indebtedness, which seems to be what happened according to what Trusttwo has said. And 
the scale of Mr Ss overall debt compared to the smaller value of the loan makes me think 
that he would most likely remain in serious financial trouble regardless. I dont think 
TrustTwo was able to safely say this loan would improve his position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation overall bearing in mind 
that his plans seemed to be to clear his smaller shorter term loans with a loan that would 
potentially cost him more than £13,000 over the next five years. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken carefully into account everything TrustTwo has said, 
including its response to our investigators view  but this doesnt change the outcome. It 
told us it had seen a more recent credit report that hadnt shown Mr S had been reliant on 
short-term loans to cover the repayments. I havent seen this report. But, regardless of 
what it may have seen, I think Mr S would likely still need to pay a disproportionate amount 
of income towards debt servicing costs and TrustTwo shouldve recognised this wasnt a 
sustainable position for him to be in over the loan term.
I will of course be happy to review what I've said in my provisional decision if TrustTwo 
would like to send me the up to date credit report it has mentioned (or indeed a current 
credit report) to see if this changes what I think about this case. 
To sum up, as things stand, I cant reasonably say that TrustTwo made a fair 
lending decision based on the information in front of it. I dont think TrustTwo was 
able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr S . And 
so it shouldnt have provided it and TrustTwo needs to put things right.
Like our investigator, I havent seen enough to make me think that TrustTwo acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr S some other way. So Im not proposing to award any additional 
redress over and above what I've set out below.
But as Mr S has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what TrustTwo did wrong. 
For all the reasons I have explained above, I think it is fair and reasonable for TrustTwo to 
take the following steps to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Trusttwo has confirmed it now agrees to uphold this complaint in line with what Ive said in 
my provisional decision and Mr S is happy with this outcome. So I think its reasonable for 
me to proceed to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and TrustTwo, in particular, for responding so promptly to my provisional decision. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.Putting things right
Mr S should repay the capital amount that he borrowed, because he had the benefit of that 
lending. But in line with this Services approach, Mr S shouldnt repay more than the capital 
amount he borrowed.
So TrustTwo should:
add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Mr S made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr S having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then TrustTwo should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr S bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically if he still needs further time to pay what he 
owes.
Whilst its fair that Mr Ss credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial 
history, its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend this loan. 
So TrustTwo should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ss credit file 
regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TrustTwo to deduct tax from this interest. TrustTwo 
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as TrustTwo to take 
the steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman