DRN-4086524
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked and then closed his account 
without notice and without good reason. 
What happened
Mr H has explained that he is a retired accountant. When he retired, however, a small 
number of his clients asked him if he would continue to help with them their tax affairs. He 
agreed and opened an account with Nationwide, so that he could keep his own finances 
separate from theirs. He says that he told Nationwide when he opened the account what he 
was intending to do and that it had no problem with the arrangement. 
As part of the arrangements he has described, Mr Hs account would receive occasional tax 
refunds on behalf of his clients. He would then transfer those payments from his Nationwide 
account to the accounts of those clients. He says that HMRC is fully aware of the 
arrangements and that they are not uncommon, since anyone can nominate another person 
to deal with their tax affairs. These arrangements have been in place for a few years, 
although the number of transactions in that time was very small. 
In October 2021 a credit of just under £1,200 was received from HMRC. It was a payment 
due to one of Mr Hs clients. Mr H arranged to transfer it to the client, but Nationwide blocked 
the payment. 
Nationwides fraud investigation team contacted Mr H to say that it had frozen his account. It 
asked him to provide evidence showing the source of funds and that he was entitled to them. 
He was not entitled to those funds, of course, save as agent for his client. 
Mr H replied to ask which account was affected, since he had a further sole account and a 
joint account. Following a telephone conversation with Nationwide, he sent an email saying 
that he had no intention of complying with its request and saying that he had made 
alternative arrangements to pay his client. 
In its reply, Nationwide clarified the payment in question and asked for proof of Mr Hs 
entitlement to the self-assessment credit and an explanation of why he had attempted 
immediately to move the money to a third party.  
Mr H said that, as Nationwide had concluded he was guilty of fraud, he wanted to move his 
account to a different provider. Nationwide advised that this would not be possible while the 
account was under investigation. It asked again for more information about the credit and the 
attempted payment to Mr Hs client.
On 25 October 2021 Nationwide wrote to Mr H to say that it had closed his account with 
immediate effect. It also removed funds representing the HMRC payment to a suspense 
account, in the expectation that HMRC would recall it.           
Nationwide did not however close the account as it said it would, and it remained open until 
early January 2022. In the meantime, a further credit was paid by HMRC, this time for a 
different client. Mr H was unable to move those funds to his client. 
Nationwide acknowledged that it had made an error in not closing the account. If it had been 
closed in October, the later payment would have been returned to HMRC. It offered Mr H 
£25 by way of compensation, which he did not accept.    
Mr H referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She noted that, during the 
course of our investigations, both credits had been recalled by HMRC and paid into a 
different account in Mr Hs name. That means that both of Mr Hs clients have received the 
payments due to them and Mr H is not out of pocket. 
Mr H did not accept the investigators recommendation and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have the same overall conclusion as the investigator did, and for 
similar reasons. 
I accept that Mr Hs explanation for the receipt of funds and immediate transfer of them to 
third parties is true. HMRC allows taxpayers to appoint an agent to deal with their tax affairs, 
and I am satisfied that is what Mr H was doing here. The account activity shows that he had 
made similar transactions in the past. 
I also have no reason to doubt him when he says that he explained when he opened the 
account how it would be operated. 
However, I also accept that Nationwide was entitled to ask Mr H about transactions on the 
account if it thought it had reason to do so. It is one of the things that banks and building 
societies do to protect their customers and themselves from fraud. There are many cases of 
fraud being facilitated when an account holder lets a third party pay money through their 
account  very often innocently. I think too that Nationwide was within its rights to suspend 
the account while it made enquiries.
For the avoidance of any doubt, I am satisfied that there was no fraud in this case. Mr H was 
neither a victim nor a perpetrator. I can understand however why Nationwide felt the need to 
ask for more information to enable its fraud department to reach its own conclusions. The 
involvement of that department did not mean that any crime had been committed.           
Mr H says that a strict reading of the account terms allows suspension if a customer has not 
answered questions about a transaction, not before any question has been asked. He also 
asked Nationwide and this service to identify any legal provision allowing Nationwide to act 
as it did. This service is not a court, however, and I am required to reach my decision on the 
basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In doing that, I 
must take into account relevant law (which I accept includes the account terms); but I must 
also take into account what I consider to have been good business practice at the time. So, 
even if I were to agree with Mr H about the account terms, I think Nationwide, in querying the 
transaction and blocking the account while it did so, was acting in line with good business 
practice. As I say, I accept Mr Hs explanations here. There was a legitimate reason for HMRC 
payments being made to his account and for immediate corresponding payments being 
made to third parties. I have however reviewed his responses to Nationwides requests for 
information, in particular in October 2021. His responses did not however explain the 
background that I set out on page 1 of this decision. Mr H only did that when he referred the 
matter to this service. 
It may be that Nationwide would have lifted the block on the account and not closed it if Mr H 
had answered its questions. I have no way of knowing if Nationwide would have believed 
what he was saying or if he could have provided the evidence it required  having in mind in 
particular Mr Hs obligations of confidentiality towards his clients. I take the view however 
that Nationwides actions in response to what he actually said were reasonable. 
I note that Nationwide offered Mr H £25 in recognition of the fact that it did not close the 
account when it said it had. I leave it to him to decide whether, on reflection, he wants to 
accept that offer  assuming it is still open. I dont propose to make an award or require 
Nationwide to do anything further, however.            
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and do not 
require Nationwide Building Society to take any further steps to resolve it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman