DRN-4193792
The complaint
Mr B and Ms E complain Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) unfairly declined Mr Bs claim, and 
cancelled their joint policy. 
The complaint is brought by a representative acting on behalf of Mr B and Ms E, but for ease 
I shall refer to all representations as having been made by the consumers themselves. 
What happened
Mr B and Ms E took out a joint term assurance policy underwritten by Zurich, in 2015. The 
policy was designed to provide life and critical illness cover for them both. 
In July 2018, Mr B suffered a heart attack, and made a critical illness claim. After requesting 
Mr Bs medical records and assessing the claim, Zurich declined it. It said it thought Mr B 
had made a misrepresentation when he took out the policy, as his medical records reflected 
use of an illegal substance prior to incepting the policy. And it said Mr B should have 
declared this when he answered the policy application questions.
Mr B said he had no recollection of giving information about past use of substances while he 
was in hospital, and said the information recorded in his medical notes about this was 
incorrect. 
Zurich said it thought Mr B had made a deliberate / reckless misrepresentation when he 
applied for his policy, and had the information about use of the substance been declared 
during the application process, it wouldnt have been able to offer the cover at all. It avoided 
the joint policy (cancelled it from the start) and refunded the premiums which had been paid. 
Mr B and Ms E complained to Zurich. It said it had reviewed the information again and 
referred it to its senior claims assessor for review. But it still thought the action it had taken 
had been correct. 
Unhappy with Zurichs response, Mr B and Ms E brought their complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said they didnt think Zurich had acted 
unfairly. 
Zurich made no comment on the investigators view. However Mr B and Ms E disagreed. In 
summary they said:
Mr B had been under general anaesthetic and had been given pain medication, at 
the time the conversation about taking substances took place. And because of this, 
what he said at that time is unreliable as he was confused and doesnt recall the 
conversation at all; 
Zurich put Mr B under pressure during a telephone call where it questioned him on 
past substance use. And asked leading and loaded questions, and didnt allow him 
time to go away and refer to his financial adviser before answering; 
Ms E needed to make a claim against the policy, but was unable to do so as Zurich 
cancelled the policy for her as well as Mr B. 
As Mr B and Ms E disagreed with the investigators view, the case was been passed to me 
to decide. 
My provisional decision 
I reached a similar outcome to that of the investigator, but I wanted to expand on their 
findings. So, I issued a provisional decision and gave both parties the opportunity to 
respond. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For 
it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered 
the policy on different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
Zurich has said Mr B failed to take reasonable care in answering its questions when 
he took out the policy. So Ive gone on to review the questions asked and the 
answers given.
Mr B and Ms E applied for the policy in 2015 and as part of the application process, 
Mr B was asked the following question, to which he answered no.
Have you ever used or injected drugs that were not prescribed for you? 
Please include recreational drugs (e.g. cocaine, heroin, cannabis, ecstasy). 
And Ive seen evidence that Mr B and Ms E were sent a copy of their answers to the 
application questions for review, with a covering letter which advised them to check 
the information carefully to ensure it had been recorded correctly. The first page of 
the covering letter also included information about the consequences of providing 
incorrect or incomplete information, and said if the questions had not been answered 
correctly, the cover may be cancelled, the terms changed or a claim may be rejected. 
Zurich said Mr B had admitted to taking an illegal substance 8 years prior to his heart 
attack, when he was in hospital in July 2018. It said this pre-dated inception of the 
policy in 2015, and so Mr B should have declared it when he answered the 
application questions. Ive reviewed the medical notes from Mr Bs time in hospital, which include a record 
of him having disclosed use of a substance eight years prior. Its not clear to me 
exactly when the conversation took place, as there is no time stamp on the record. 
However the form indicates it should be completed 0-12 hours after admission and 
states post-op. So I think its most likely this form was completed after Mr Bs 
surgery had taken place. 
When Zurich questioned Mr B about the discrepancy between the information he 
gave during the application process and when he was in hospital, Zurich says Mr B 
firstly denied having ever taken the substance, but later admitted to having done so, 
but only within the last two years. Mr B has said he admitted to taking the substance 
in the call because he was put under pressure by Zurich and asked leading and 
loaded questions. 
I accept Mr B was under the influence of both a general anaesthetic and strong pain 
relief at the time of the conversation about his past use of substances. And I accept 
Mr B doesnt recall the conversation due to the effects of those prescribed drugs. 
However, his recorded comments are specific about use of a named substance and 
time periods, and Ive not been presented with evidence which sufficiently persuades 
me that these comments were untrue or unreliable. And because of this, I dont think 
it was unfair or unreasonable for Zurich to rely on this evidence in the circumstances 
of this case.
Ive reviewed the application question Zurich asked Mr B about use of substances 
and I think it was worded clearly. It used the term ever to define that there was no 
time period attached to the question  so it wanted to know about all past use of 
drugs which were not prescribed. And the examples given of types of recreational 
drugs as part of the question, clarified the type of information Zurich wanted to know 
about. 
Given the disclosure Mr B is recorded to have made when he was in hospital, Im 
persuaded he should have answered yes to Zurichs question, which asked if he 
had ever used drugs not prescribed for him, including recreational drugs. 
Ive gone on to consider whether or not this was a qualifying misrepresentation, by 
looking at what difference this made to the policy which was offered. Zurich has 
provided me with underwriting evidence which shows, had Mr B declared all his past 
use of recreational drugs as required, it would have been unable to offer the policy. 
And because of this, Im satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Zurich has treated this as a deliberate / reckless misrepresentation, and Im 
persuaded this was fair. The hospital records reflected Mr B disclosing use of a 
substance eight years ago in 2018, so this would have related back to around 2010. 
And as he took his policy out in 2015, Im satisfied the same information applied at 
that time, and that Mr B was aware of it. 
In these circumstances, the remedy available under CIDRA would be for the insurer 
to avoid the policy and decline any claims. And thats what Zurich has done. In 
addition, Zurich has refunded the policy premiums, which it is not required to do 
under CIDRA in these circumstances, so Im satisfied it has acted fairly.  Zurichs investigation of the misrepresentation 
Mr B is unhappy with the way he was questioned over the phone by Zurich during its 
assessment of his claim. Zurich has said the call was not recorded, so I have 
reviewed Mr Bs explanation of the call content and Zurichs call notes. 
I note Mr B has said he felt under pressure and that Zurich asked loaded and leading 
questions, and refused to allow him time to go away and speak to his financial 
adviser. Ive considered this, however, an insurer is entitled to seek relevant 
evidence when assessing a claim.  And in the case of a potential misrepresentation, 
its required to ask the consumer about the answers they gave and the reasons for 
that. So although I appreciate the questioning would likely have been distressing for 
Mr B to go through, I think its reasonable that Zurich asked probing questions about 
Mr Bs substance use and the conflict between the information contained in the 
medical records and that which he had previously supplied in his application. And I 
dont think it unfair that Zurich didnt allow Mr B to go away and consult his financial 
adviser. I say this because the information Zurich was requesting was about Mr Bs 
own use of substances, and information he had personally provided previously, so 
Im not persuaded it was necessary for Mr B to refer to any other party before being 
able to answer. 
Cancellation of Ms Es cover 
Mr B and Ms E have also said its unfair that Zurich cancelled the cover for Ms E. Ms 
E had wanted to make a critical illness claim for herself, but has been unable to do so 
as the policy she held jointly with Mr B was avoided. Whilst the misrepresentation in 
this case relates only to information provided by Mr B about his own circumstances, 
the policy was taken out and held jointly for both parties. So, I think its reasonable 
that Zurich needed to cancel the policy as a whole. And as Ive explained, Im 
satisfied Zurich was entitled to do that, due to the qualifying misrepresentation made 
by Mr B. 
The response to my provisional decision 
Mr B and Ms E didnt respond to my provisional decision. Zurich responded saying it 
accepted the decision and made no additional comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any further points, so I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Zurich Assurance Ltd.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms E to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 Gemma Warner
Ombudsman