DRN-3305224
The complaint
Mr B complained that Loans 2 Go Limited failed to do sufficient checks and lent to him 
irresponsibly when he was already struggling to pay other lenders and provided a loan that 
was unaffordable. 
What happened
Mr B took out a loan with Loans 2 Go as follows:
Date taken Loan 
amountTerm - Monthly 
repaymentTotal payable
5/12/19 £340 18 months £77.71 £1,398.78
The loan purpose wasnt recorded on the application. 
When Mr B complained to Loans 2 Go it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that 
Loans 2 Go shouldnt have provided the loan.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld and set out directions 
indicating what Loans 2 Go should do to put things right. 
Mr B accepted our adjudicators view. Loans 2 Go disagreed. It mainly said there were no 
active county court judgements or defaults recorded on Mr Bs credit file and it didnt 
penalise customers for using an agreed credit facility. As well as this, Mr B had high 
available balances on credit facilities and he hadnt been at or over the credit limit on the 
majority of his credit commitments.  
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Loans 2 Go asked Mr B about his income and expenses  including what he spent on his 
credit commitments. It also did its own credit check to understand Mr Bs credit history. 
Loans 2 Go verified that Mr Bs minimum monthly pay was around £4,642. After reviewing 
the information it had gathered, Loans 2 Go boosted the monthly expenditure figure that 
Mr B had declared and calculated that he would need to spend approximately £4,037 in total 
each month. It also took into account nationally available statistics when thinking about 
Mr Bs likely spending and allowed for a buffer of 10% of his verified expenditure to account 
for any fluctuations in his monthly income or expenditure. Based on this, Loans 2 Go said 
Mr B shouldve been able to afford the monthly repayment on this loan. 
Like our adjudicator I think those checks were broadly proportionate. But despite recording 
information that appeared to show that Mr B had enough spare cash each month to cover 
the loan monthly repayments, I think Loans 2 Go shouldve realised that it couldnt rely on 
this information. Thats because what Mr B had declared was significantly at odds with what 
Loans 2 Go saw on its credit checks showing Mr Bs credit history. And I dont think 
Loans 2 Go thought carefully enough about what the information it had gathered showed 
about Mr Bs overall financial situation and the likelihood of him being able to pay its loan in 
a sustainable manner.
I say this because Loans 2 Go could see from its credit checks that whilst Mr B was within 
his credit limit on one credit card account he also had a credit card that was over its £2,000 
limit with a balance of £2040. And although that might reasonably have been put down to a 
money management issue rather that a sign of money problems, I think there was other 
concerning information shown. Overall, he was using 94% of the available credit on his 
credit cards. Mr B had also taken out 5 payday/unsecured loans over the course of the year 
 4 within the previous six months. The credit search also showed that Mr B had a history of 
taking short term loans, sometimes more than one a month. The reliance on this type of 
credit is an indication that Mr B was not managing his money well and I think Loans 2 Go 
should have recognised the hallmarks of potential financial difficulty.
Ive taken carefully into account everything Loans 2 Go has said in response to our 
adjudicators assessment about the way it assessed affordability. And I've thought carefully 
about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this information and in 
particular whether it was enough for Loans 2 Go to make a fair decision to lend, particularly 
as it doesnt seem to have known how Mr B intended to use the money.
I think our adjudicator was right to say that all the indications were that Mr B wasnt 
managing his money well and he was already struggling financially. To my mind, it 
shouldve been apparent that Mr B probably didnt have the amount of disposable 
income that Loans 2 Go calculated given his heavy reliance on expensive credit. All 
the signs were that his finances were, in reality, under significant stress and his debt 
was already unmanageable. I dont think Loans 2 Go was reasonably able to be 
satisfied in these circumstances that Mr B would be able to make its loan repayments 
in a sustainable way. Also, bearing in mind the repayment of this loan on top of the credit commitments Loans 2 
Go saw in its credit checks, I think its fair to say that Mr B needed to pay a significant 
portion of his income towards credit  more than half by my reckoning. And in my opinion, 
as a responsible lender Loans 2 Go shouldve realised that Mr B would likely struggle to 
repay this loan  especially bearing in mind the 18 month loan term.
So thinking about all the information Loans 2 Go had gathered, I cant reasonably say 
that it made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it. I dont think 
Loans 2 Go was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable 
for Mr B. And so it shouldnt have provided it and Loans 2 Go needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the capital amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending - but he shouldnt repay more than this. 
If Loans 2 Go has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, Loans 2 Go should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr B received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Mr B made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr B having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr B bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically if he still needs further time to pay what he 
owes.
Whilst its fair that Mr Bs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend this loan. So 
Loans 2 Go should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Bs credit file 
regarding this loan 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman