DRN-4132287
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax stopped them getting a fixed 
rate product which has caused them to lose out.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs J have a mortgage with Halifax. They were on a fixed rate product until late 
July 2022. Their payments were about £400 a month. Mr J called Halifax in mid-July 2022 to 
ask what his payments would be when the fixed rate product ended. He was told it would be 
about £1,100 a month, but he could take a new fixed rate product with payments of about 
£750 a month. While I accept Mr J was dissatisfied with these increases, interest rates had 
increased for everyone. I dont find Halifax treated Mr and Mrs J unfairly here.
Mr J was transferred to a mortgage advisor to discuss a new fixed rate product. This 
involved Mr J being asked about his household finances. It came to light Mr and Mrs J were 
struggling financially, so rather than tie them into a new fixed rate product, the mortgage 
advisor suggested Mr R speak to Halifaxs payment assistance line (PAL) first to see if 
there was a better option. Mr J was open to this and so he was transferred through. I find 
this was a positive step on the part of Halifax as it meant options were fully explored.
Mr J explained his household finances to the PAL advisor. The PAL advisor considered 
matters but didnt think there was anything he could do. The mortgage was predominantly 
interest only, so a term extension wouldnt help. Re-mortgaging elsewhere wouldnt be a 
likely option due of a lack of income. And arrears would impact credit files and cause 
collections activity. The PAL advisor said he would make some enquires and call Mr J back. 
I find this too was a positive step on the part of Halifax.
The PAL advisor called Mr J back a little later in the day, as he said he would. He told Mr J 
he couldnt help and that he should get back in touch with a mortgage advisor to discuss a 
new fixed rate product, with Mrs J present. There was also mention of Mr J exploring his 
options elsewhere and of the sale of the property. Mr J thanked the PAL advisor. While I 
accept the PAL advisor didnt help Mr J in the way he may have liked - for example, through 
a special interest rate - I find the PAL advisor did what he reasonably could to assist.
Mr J didnt call Halifax back in July 2022. He says he called in August and September 2022. 
However, Halifaxs records dont support this, and Mr J hasnt provided any compelling 
evidence to show he did. Im not satisfied, on the evidence presented to me, Mr J did call 
Halifax in these months. And while I accept Mr J had a bereavement and says his mental 
health makes matters like this difficult for him, I find it was fair and reasonable for Halifax not 
to put in place a new fixed rate product during these months, because it wasnt asked to.
Halifaxs records show Mr Js next contact was in October 2022. The contemporaneous 
notes say the mortgage was discussed, including early repayment and potential early 
repayment charges, and that Mr J didnt want to take a new fixed rate product based on the 
October 2022 rates (theyd gone up since July 2022). I find it was fair and reasonable for 
Halifax to offer Mr J the rates that were applicable at the time and Im satisfied Mr J could 
have applied for a new fixed rate product but declined to do so. 
The October 2022 contact led to this complaint. Mr J argues, broadly, that it was Halifaxs 
fault he didnt get a new fixed rate product in July 2022, and that hes therefore been paying 
more each month than he otherwise would have. While I have a great deal of sympathy for 
Mr and Mrs J in light of their significantly increased monthly payments, given the findings I 
have made above, I dont find I can fairly and reasonably conclude this is because of an 
unfairness on the part of Halifax. 
Halifax, while not upholding the substantive part of Mr and Mrs Js complaint, did recognise 
its customer service could have been better at times. For example, Mr J was cold transferred 
at one point, and he was told Mrs J needed to be present for a new fixed rate product 
application, which wasnt the case. Halifax apologised for this and paid Mr J £80 
compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience he was caused. I find this fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman