DRN-3093171
The complaint
Mr R complains that he wasnt properly advised about what would be acceptable damage 
when he returned a car to Lex Autolease Ltd trading as Lex Autolease (Lex) and he has 
been charged an excessive amount for repairs.
What happened
Mr R took out an agreement with Lex for hire of a car in April 2016 for 48 months. At the end 
of the agreement in April 2021 arrangements were made for inspection and collection of the 
car. Mr R explains he was told over the telephone when arranging collection that scratches 
bigger than a five pence piece were not acceptable. 
When the car was inspected at collection stone chips were identified on the bonnet, boot lid 
and quarter panel and scratches were identified on the bumpers, door and quarter panel. 
Lex stated that these fell outside the reasonable wear and tear guidelines and invoiced a 
total of £852 for repairs.
Mr R was unhappy with the charges because he wasnt made aware that this damage would 
be chargeable and so he didnt have an opportunity to get the damage repaired himself 
before the car was collected. Mr R says that the charges are excessive and he could have 
had the repairs carried out much cheaper.
Lex thought that the charges were fair and so Mr R complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and they didnt think it should be upheld. They thought 
that the inspection report and photographs showed that the damage was outside British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and so was not fair wear and 
tear. They thought that the terms and conditions of the agreement signed by Mr R made it 
clear about the expected condition of the car when it was returned and so the charges were 
fair and reasonable.
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said in summary 
that it wasnt fair to rely on the original 2016 agreement when he had been given different 
information over the phone and that the charges are extortionate in circumstances where the 
car has been sold on. Mr R stated that he was happy to pay for a reasonable cost of repair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Rs signed agreement and I note that it states that the car must be returned 
in reasonable condition for its age and mileage. Ive looked at the BVRLA guidelines about 
what is considered reasonable wear and tear and compared the guidelines with the damage 
noted in the photographs and described in the inspection report. I think that the damage 
does fall outside reasonable wear and tear and so Lex are entitled to charge as the car isnt 
in reasonable condition for its age and mileage. 
I know that Mr R says that Lex told him that scratches over the size of a five pence piece 
were not acceptable and didnt refer him to his agreement. I can understand why he thought 
that the damage would be acceptable based on this information. But I dont think it is 
reasonable to expect Lex to have gone through with Mr R all of the items of damage which 
wouldnt be fair wear and tear. Scratches are different to paint chips and a small scratch or 
dent, if it is particularly deep may still be outside fair wear and tear. Mr R could have had the 
car inspected before it was returned and it was his responsibility under the agreement to 
ensure the car was in reasonable condition.
I understand why Mr R is unhappy about the amount of the charges. I dont doubt that he 
could have got the damage repaired much cheaper. But the terms of the agreement are 
clear that Lex is entitled to charge the cost of repair, or the loss of value of the car is sold 
without repair. In the circumstances I cant say that just because Mr R has received a quote 
for the damage to be repaired cheaper, that the costs are unreasonable or excessive.  
I know that my decision will be a disappointment for Mr R but for the reasons I have 
explained I am unable to uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman