DRN-3874471
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) didnt pay their full claim for storm 
damage. They had buildings and contents insurance in joint names but, for ease of reading, 
Ill refer only to Mrs B throughout my decision.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand Mrs B will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Storm conditions
Mrs B complained that QIC referred to the windspeed during the storm as just 67 mph, yet 
the wind reached speeds of over 100 mph. Ive thought about why QIC quoted the 
windspeed and whether it impacted the claim. The policy defines a storm as wind speeds 
of at least 55 mph. Im satisfied that QIC was simply making the point that it agreed there 
was a storm. The level of cover doesnt change as the wind gets stronger  it just needs to 
exceed 55 mph. So, the evidence doesnt tell me that QIC caused Mrs B any loss or 
inconvenience by quoting a windspeed below that which she experienced.
Roof and fence
QIC declined cover for the roof and fence because its surveyor concluded that the damage 
was caused mainly by wear and tear or gradual causes. Mrs B remains unhappy because 
she says its clear the damage happened in the storm, so the storm mustve caused it.
Ive looked at the photos, including images of the roof from several angles and images of 
three fence posts and panels. The roof damage is limited to some dislodged mortar which 
slipped onto the gutter and the window ledge below. QICs surveyor said the mortar had 
deteriorated. Im not a building expert  nor am I required to be  so I must rely on the 
evidence presented to me. If the damage had been more widespread, or if Mrs B had 
provided an independent roofers report, I may have reached a different view. But as it 
stands, I have no reason to doubt the expert opinion QIC submitted. 
Although Mrs B says the fence panels were not rotten, the evidence shows otherwise. The 
photos clearly show signs of rot in the fence posts where they have broken and the fence 
itself is worn. Therefore, Im persuaded by the surveyors report that the damage to both roof 
and fence is due mainly to gradually operating causes.
Gradual cause 
Mrs B said she doesnt understand why QIC wont accept that the damage was caused by 
the storm and keeps referring to gradual damage. Looking at the evidence, QIC doesnt 
dispute that the damage happened in the storm. The point its making is that the storm 
wasn't the main reason the damage happened. The evidence shows there was already 
some wear and tear/gradual damage to the roof and fence, and it was because of that 
existing wear and tear, that the storm was able to dislodge mortar and knock down the 
fence. 
Garden shed
QIC referred to Mrs Bs garden shed as a plastic storage unit, and said it wasnt covered 
under the buildings element of the policy. Looking at the policy, it defines a building as: 
Any permanent structure within the boundaries of your property
Mrs B said it was a structure covered under the buildings policy. 
The type of shed Mrs B had was one designed to be easily assembled and could be moved 
within the garden or to a new home. Therefore, Im satisfied that it didnt meet the policys 
permanent structure definition of a building.
QIC went on to consider the claim under the contents and additional accidental damage 
section. It declined the claim because the policy specifically excluded damage to contents in 
the open caused by storm.
Having considered the policy Im satisfied that each of the exclusions QIC referred to apply 
to Mrs Bs garden shed. Therefore, I find that QIC fairly declined this part of her claim for the 
reasons it gave.
Tree
Mrs B claimed for damage caused by a fallen tree. QIC declined cover because it didnt 
cause damage to the building. I havent seen evidence that the tree caused damage to any 
of Mrs Bs property which is defined in the policy as buildings, therefore I find that QIC 
reasonably declined cover for the tree.
Cash settlement offer
QIC accepted Mrs Bs claim for her storm-damaged garage door, freezer contents and 
gardening equipment. Mrs B was unhappy with the offer and sought clarification of the 
amount on a number of occasions.
I see that QIC responded to Mrs Bs concerns, eventually providing a total settlement figure 
for the garage door and contents claim, less the policy excess. Because Mrs B wanted a 
cash settlement for her garage door, rather than a repair carried out by QIC, the policy 
allows QIC to pay only what it wouldve cost it to complete the repair or replacement. 
While QIC made a mistake at one point when it told Mrs B what the cash settlement would 
be, I havent seen anything to suggest that the mistake, which QIC later corrected, caused 
Mrs B any loss. Mrs B said she cant decide whether to accept the offer until QIC provides 
the breakdown she has asked for. Looking at the information Mrs B provided, its clear that 
QIC did provide the figure she asked for in communications between 22 February and 24 
February 2022.  
Its Mrs Bs responsibility, now, to decide whether she wishes to accept the offer.
As a final point, I note Mrs B said she wasn't made aware when she bought her policy that 
her insurer would use another business to handle her claim. This matter relates to the sale of the policy. As Mrs B didnt buy the policy directly from QIC, its not within my remit to 
consider the sale while addressing her complaint about the claim decision. Mrs B would 
need to raise that matter directly with the business which sold her the policy.
In summary, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that QIC made an unfair settlement 
offer or that it unfairly declined cover for parts of the claim. Therefore, Im satisfied that QIC 
declined the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions, and I see no reason to ask it 
to do any more in respect of this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman