DRN-2502731
The complaint
Ms T has complained Citibank UK Limited held up a payment she was making. She believed 
their reason for doing so was that the payment  and the reference she used  was subject 
to racial profiling.
What happened
On 16 October 2019 Ms T made a payment from her Citibank account of £5,253.60. This 
was a payment shed made before and was for services she was buying from a legal firm.
Citibank needed to carry out additional checks on the payment. On 18 October  a Friday  
they decided they needed further information from Ms T about the transaction. They called 
her the next working day: Monday 21 October.
Ms T didnt see the merit of their request. She was concerned why Citibank had made the 
decision to hold up this payment. She felt this may have been because of racial profiling. 
She was unwilling to provide further information and asked for the payment to be cancelled. 
After providing further information to Citibank on 23 October to enable this to happen, the 
money credited Ms Ts account on 30 October.
Ms T was unhappy with how shed been treated by Citibank and the extended timescale she 
felt this had all taken. Dissatisfied with Citibanks response, she brought her complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed what had happened but didnt agree Citibank had done anything 
wrong.
Ms T felt this didnt deal with her concerns and has asked an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ill explain why Ive reached the decision I have.
There are two elements to this complaint and Ive dealt with both of these.
Was Citibank able to hold up Ms Ts payment?
Our investigator shared the relevant terms and conditions which cover this. Section 11.1 
allows Citibank to review payments being made by their customers and verify any detail.
All banks also have legal and regulatory requirements, set by regulators and criminal 
agencies, to check accounts and payment activity for specific purposes. For example, these 
can be as bizarre and seemingly unconnected as identifying an address of a house 
purchase being the same as the name of a ship subject to strict international embargos.  
I wouldnt expect the bank involved to share the detail of why theyve been obliged to carry 
out such a check, rather theyve met their legal obligations.
So taking these issues into account, Im satisfied Citibank were able to raise further 
questions about the payment Ms T wished to make.
I completely understand why Ms T thinks racial profiling was going on. This was a payment 
to a specific legal firm shed made on occasion before. She believes that the inclusion of a 
name within the reference was what prompted the check. Ive no other evidence than Ms Ts 
belief so cant say this was the case here. As Ms T pointed out the reference within a faster 
payment message can, in fact, be completed with practically any information (and Ive 
certainly seen a variety of names used within this reference field). So overall I dont agree 
with her.
The time taken
Citibank only identified further questions they wished to raise with Ms T on 18 October. This 
was two days after the payment was initiated. I suspect the payment was side-lined in an 
automated fashion immediately but then needed time for a manual check to be carried out.  
As before Citibanks terms and conditions allow time for this to take place and for eventual 
refunds to be made. My role is to see whether those terms and conditions have been applied 
unfairly and I cant see they have here.
In fact Citibank refunded the money within 5 working days when they could have taken  and 
still met their terms and conditions  somewhat longer.
I appreciate Ms Ts concerns here but have to tell her that I dont believe Citibank has done 
anything wrong.
I must also recognise that Ms T brought her complaint to this service in early 2020. Im sorry 
that because of the volume of work we have to review, it has taken us until now to complete 
our consideration and determination of her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Ts complaint against 
Citibank UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman