DRN-3866556
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Financial Administration Services Limited, trading as Fidelity 
International (Fidelity), encashed one of his funds when he asked for his self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) to be switched in species. 
What happened
The events are well known to both parties and I dont intend to set out or address every point 
raised. Instead, Ill focus on what I think is key to reaching my decision.
In February 2021, Fidelity encashed one of Mr S funds when it received a request to switch 
his SIPP in species. Mr S complained to Fidelity about this and, in response, it sent him 
three letters apologising and offered him £100 in total compensation for the delay in 
completing its investigation. And, after initially saying Mr S could bring his complaint to our 
Service, Fidelity said he could refer it to The Pensions Ombudsman (TPO).
In August 2021, Fidelity sent Mr S a final response letter saying it incorrectly asked for his 
fund to be encashed. It said it would ensure this was re-invested and that Mr S wasnt 
financially disadvantaged by its error. And it offered Mr S £200 in further compensation, 
made up of £100 for the trouble and upset caused him and £100 for the delay in allocating 
his complaint. 
After Fidelity made the fund corrections, Mr S said it had made further errors. In response, 
Fidelity recognised it incorrectly invested an additional £384.94 from Mr S cash account in 
the fund. And that his fund was still 31.23 units short of what hed held in it before the switch. 
Fidelity said it had since put these things right. And it offered Mr S a further £150 
compensation, including £75 for the further errors and £75 for previously giving him incorrect 
Ombudsman referral rights. 
During this time Mr S had come to our Service saying, in summary, that Fidelity took too long 
to resolve matters, caused him worry and didnt call him back. Mr S said he had to halt any 
plans he may have had for his fund when the share price had increased. And that the 
conflicting referral rights it gave him means TPO wont consider his complaint as hed 
already brought it to our Service. Mr S also said Fidelity hasnt set up his £50 monthly SIPP 
contributions. And that Fidelity should buy back the same number of units he held in the fund 
before it was encashed and bear any additional costs in doing so, in light of the share price 
increase, as well as paying him further compensation. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr S complaint. She said Fidelity had put right its errors and 
she wasnt persuaded Mr S would have sold his shares if not for these. She also said the 
total compensation already paid by Fidelity is fair and reasonable. And that she hadnt 
considered the £50 monthly contribution issue, as Fidelity had asked to respond to Mr S 
directly on this. 
Mr S disagreed and said, in summary, that only £175 of the total compensation Fidelity 
offered was for the two large encashment and redress errors, when our guidance says we 
award up to £750 for considerable distress and inconvenience that needs a lot of extra effort 
to sort out and lasts weeks or months. Mr S said he couldnt have sold his shares in the fund 
if hed wanted to during this time, when he may have due to the increased share price. And 
he went on to say that Fidelitys errors meant he couldnt do something he would have done 
with this. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
I asked Mr S if he wanted me to address the £50 monthly contribution issue, in which case 
Id need more information. And, in response, Mr S said that issue has been resolved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking Fidelity to do anything further, for largely the same reasons 
as our Investigator. 
As the £50 monthly contribution issue has been resolved, I havent considered this.
Turning to the encashment of Mr S fund, it isnt in dispute that Fidelity requested this in error 
rather than switching it in species, or that it made errors when initially trying to put this right. 
But I can see Fidelity has since ensured Mr S has the same number of units in the fund as 
he did before the switch at no additional cost to him, and that it has refunded the cash it 
incorrectly used from his cash account, in the way Mr S wanted. 
Mr S has suggested Fidelity still hasnt put him back in the position he would have been in if 
not for the encashment error though, as hes said this prevented him doing something he 
would have done with his fund. But, while Ive considered this, Mr S has also previously told 
us Fidelitys error halted any plans he may have had for his fund  rather than did have  
and meant he couldnt sell his shares if hed wanted to. Mr S hasnt told us what he would 
have done with his fund, beyond possibly selling his shares in it. So, taking everything into 
account, I cant safely say Mr S would have done anything differently with his fund if not for 
Fidelitys encashment error. And, for the reasons given, I think it has put Mr S back in the 
position he would likely have been in had this not occurred.
Turning to compensation, while Fidelitys broken down how it reached the £450 in total that it 
has offered Mr S in relation to this complaint, Ive considered what I think is a fair and 
reasonable amount in all the circumstances, overall. 
Compensation isnt intended as a fine or to punish a business for its errors  thats the job of 
the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority). Instead its to recognise the impact of whats 
happened. When bearing in mind the nature of Fidelitys errors, that Mr S had to make it 
aware of these and that it took several months to be put right, I think this would have caused 
him frustration, as well as some worry and inconvenience. And Fidelity could have provided 
Mr S with better customer service at times. For example, it didnt call him when it said it 
would. But Fidelity has recognised and put right its encashment error. I dont think Mr S had 
to go to a lot more effort to get matters put right than Id reasonably expect in this situation. 
And, as Im not persuaded Fidelitys errors prevented Mr S from doing something he would 
have otherwise done with his fund, I cant say hes been caused worry or inconvenience as a 
result of that. 
Fidelity gave Mr S conflicting information about which Ombudsman service he could bring 
his complaint to, but I note it ultimately told him about both and he continued his complaint 
with us. And this purely relates to complaint handling, which isnt an activity our service can 
consider.In summary, while I understand Mr S strength of feeling, I think the £450 in total 
compensation already offered by Fidelity is a fair and reasonable amount to make up for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him in the circumstances. And, for the reasons given, 
Im not asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
Financial Administration Services Limited has already offered Mr S £450 in total 
compensation to settle the complaint and I think this is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
So my final decision is that Financial Administration Services Limited should pay Mr S this, if 
it hasnt already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman