DRN-3881071
The complaint
Mr C complains that Starling Bank Limited treated him unfairly in relation to a chargeback on 
a transaction.
What happened
In late April 2022 Mr Cs Starling card was used to pre-authorise a transaction with a 
merchant (a car rental company). No transaction was processed within thirty days of this 
pre-authorisation. A few days later at the end of May 2022 the Merchant processed a 
transaction for a lesser amount than that which had been pre-authorised. Starling said this 
was outside of its normal process, so it raised a chargeback. Mr C then spoke to Starling 
and confirmed the transaction was genuine. However the transaction had put Mr C into an 
unauthorised overdraft. So Mr C complained about the handling of the transaction and how 
Starling dealt with him during their contact with each other. Starling looked into the matter 
and said that the Merchant had processed the transaction outside of the card scheme rules 
and this was the reason for it raising the chargeback. It said in relation to the long phone 
calls and support it provided Mr C it offered him £15 which Mr C didnt accept. Starling felt 
that overall it hadnt provided poor service. So it doesnt think it could do any more for Mr C. 
So Mr C brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think Starling had acted unfairly 
by declining Mr Cs complaint. Mr C didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to make clear at this juncture that I appreciate that Mr C has other complaints with 
this service. To be clear this decision is solely in regard to the transaction described and 
service Mr C received from Starling in relation to this transaction. I hope this distinction is 
clear. I should also note that Mr C has required that all correspondence and findings are 
communicated by phone. However S228 subsection 3 of the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 says When the ombudsman has determined a complaint he must give a written 
statement of his determination to the respondent and to the complainant. Accordingly here 
is my written decision on this matter.
Starlings role in the matter is to be considered only under the Chargeback rules in place as 
this transaction was on Mr Cs debit card. The Chargeback rules are under a voluntary 
scheme and consumers do not have a right to a chargeback being raised. It is the case 
though that this Service considers raising a chargeback to be good practice. Starling can 
only be held responsible if it has failed in some way. And the question of whether or not 
Starling has treated Mr C fairly is the only question I can decide upon in this decision. This is 
an important distinction which I hope Ive made sufficiently clear.
Ive seen that Mr C accepts the transaction with the Merchant was genuine. Ive seen Mr Cs 
account balance during the period in question. I can see that when the transaction was pre-
authorised in April Mr Cs account had sufficient funds to pay the transaction. I can see that 
the account operated normally during the early and middle parts of May. I can see that on 
the 25 May Mr C made a transfer out of this Starling account (to another account apparently 
in his name) for an amount similar to the pre-authorised transaction, leaving a nominal 
balance. Three days later the Merchant finally processed the transaction putting Mr C into a 
significant unauthorised overdraft. From the statement of account it seems that Mr C either 
thought the transaction in question had already gone through his account or possibly that the 
transaction wouldnt go through the account for some time going forward. Whatever Mr Cs 
reason for making that transfer, it is clear it left a negligible amount in that account and thus 
was a long way short of the several hundreds of pounds needed to cover the transaction in 
question. And Starlings terms and conditions agreed for usage of the account explain what 
happens if there are insufficient funds in accounts to cover transactions. And hence it is 
prudent for account holders to ensure their accounts dont go into such arrears.
Ive considered what happened here. It is clear that it is not Starlings fault that the Merchant 
didnt process the transaction for so long. Under the card scheme rules I can see how long 
Merchants have to process such transactions and what happened here is outside of that. So 
I can see why Starling sought to challenge the transactions validity on Mr Cs behalf by 
raising a chargeback. I can also see evidence of Starling attempting to contact Mr C without 
success. And when Starling and Mr C did talk, Mr C made clear the transaction was 
genuine, so Starling consequently treated it as such. So in regard to the Chargeback it is 
clear to me that Starling was allowed to act as it did, and it did so fairly. Ive considered the 
other issues Mr C has raised and having considered the evidence, and noting Starlings 
monetary offer, Im not persuaded Starling need to do anything more. If Mr C changes his 
mind and wishes to accept Starlings offer, he should contact it to see if the offer remains 
open. Accordingly I have decided this complaint is unsuccessful. I appreciate Mr C has not 
been well and Im sorry to hear that. And I appreciate this isnt the decision Mr C wishes to 
read. However Im not persuaded Starling has treated Mr C unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Starling UK Plc. It has 
nothing further to do on this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman