DRN-2709899
The complaint
Mr F complains that advice given to him by St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc 
(SJP) regarding the transfer of some pension savings, and their reinvestment was 
unsuitable. In particular he says that SJP failed to make him aware of the costs involved in 
holding those pension savings in a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and the early 
withdrawal charges that were payable on the transferred investments.
What happened
Mr F held pension benefits in an occupational pension scheme (OPS). Those savings were 
in the form of defined benefits  the OPS would provide Mr F with a guaranteed income 
when he reached the scheme retirement age. Mr F sought advice from SJP about how he 
might best use those pension savings. That advice, given in October 2017, led him to 
transfer his pension savings from the OPS into a retirement account held with SJP. The 
transfer was completed in March 2018
Later that year Mr F looked at utilising a SIPP to allow for some of his pension savings to be 
invested into commercial property. But after investigating the costs of the SIPP, and the 
costs of setting up the property leases, Mr F decided not to proceed. In October 2018 he told 
SJP that hed opened a SIPP with another firm and wanted to use that SIPP to hold all his 
pension savings to provide him with more investment flexibility.
When Mr F transferred his pension savings to the new provider SJP imposed an early 
withdrawal charge (EWC). It says that charge had been clearly set out in the suitability 
report that it provided to Mr F in 2017. The charge that Mr F paid amounted to around 
£41,000.
Mr Fs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the 
recommendation SJP had given to Mr F had been suitable  the retirement account met 
Mr Fs stated objectives at that time in terms of access to a pension commencement lump 
sum (PCLS - otherwise known as tax free cash), managing his income needs over 
retirement, and providing benefits for his daughters following his death. And he thought that 
the EWC had been clearly explained before Mr F decided to accept SJPs recommendation. 
So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr F didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr F and by SJP. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
It doesnt appear to me that Mr F is specifically complaining about the initial advice he was 
given, to move his pension savings from the OPS to SJP. I have noted that he sent an email 
to SJP shortly after he had moved his pension savings to the SIPP with the new provider 
that concluded by saying;
I have had no issue with the advice you have given me in the past, this is a personal 
decision with a view to my future investment approach requiring the flexibility that a 
SIPP can offer.
But, by moving his pension savings from the OPS to SJP Mr F was giving up valuable 
benefits. So I think it right that I do spend some time reviewing the advice he was given, as it 
clearly was the catalyst for much of what Mr F is complaining about here.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R require a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time SJP advised Mr F were set 
out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like SJP, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients 
needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their 
investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, SJP 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Fs 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to     
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the clients best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
A direct financial comparison of the pension benefits that would be paid to Mr F by the OPS, 
and the investment returns he would be likely to require in order to match those benefits 
following a transfer, would most likely have concluded that a transfer wasnt in Mr Fs best 
interests. But SJPs fact find reasonably identified that Mr F was unlikely to have much need 
of his pension income to support his day to day living costs in retirement. He held a 
significant property portfolio that, alongside some limited consultancy work, was likely to 
provide him with most of his income requirements in retirement.
SJP identified that the most pressing needs that Mr F had of his retirement savings were 
two-fold. Firstly by taking his PCLS he would be able to repay his mortgage on his primary 
residence. That would provide him with a significant uplift in the disposable income he had 
available in the early years of his retirement. And SJP identified that Mr F had two daughters 
who, in the near future, would both be classed as non-dependent by the OPS. So they 
wouldnt receive any benefit from Mr Fs pension savings on his death. By transferring the 
pension savings from the OPS, Mr F could make provision for both his daughters to receive 
benefit from any unused pension savings.So, on balance, I think SJP met its obligations under the regulations. It conducted a fact find 
that provided it with detailed information on Mr Fs current and likely future financial situation. 
And it demonstrated, in the advice it gave, why it was reasonable to decide that a transfer of 
Mr Fs pension savings was likely to be in his best interests. So I dont think the advice it 
gave to Mr F was inappropriate.
Mr F has said that SJPs advice fell short since it failed to take account of his intentions to 
utilise a SIPP arrangement, alongside the initial Retirement Account SJP recommended, to 
invest part of his pension savings into commercial property. Without a transcript, or 
recording, of the meetings that Mr F original held with SJP I cannot say whether, or to what 
degree, that intention was discussed. So I am, to a large extent, reliant on the 
contemporaneous notes that SJP recorded when it conducted the fact find with Mr F, and 
that formed the basis of the advice it gave. I would have expected, had those notes been 
inaccurate or incomplete, that was something that Mr F might have questioned at the time.
The advice that SJP gave to Mr F, and the subsequent transfer, simply saw his pension 
savings be moved into a Retirement Account and be invested in a Balanced Fund. The 
report specifically notes that investment in Property might be unsuitable given the potential 
for a lack of liquidity in those investments at a time when access might be needed to the 
pension savings. So I cannot reasonably conclude that the advice SJP gave to Mr F was 
based on any agreement that he would most likely want to use his retirement savings for 
investment in commercial property. I think it most likely those discussions took place after 
the advice had been given and the transfer had been completed.
Mr F has said to us that, at the time the advice was given, he had little understanding about 
SIPPs. I dont think that SJP failing to provide that information to Mr F means its advice was 
unsuitable. Mr F and SJP had clearly set out in the fact find and advice document what 
needed to be achieved by the transfer. I think that, whilst a SIPP might have been one 
method of achieving those objectives, the proposal that SJP recommended was equally as 
effective.
The information that SJP provided to Mr F as part of its advice clearly set out that an EWC of 
6% would be payable if he withdrew more than 7.5% of his pension savings in a year. That 
EWC would reduce by 1% each year, so it would be erased after six years. And I can also 
see that SJP noted a special dispensation for Mr F. It agreed that when he took his PCLS, 
that too would be exempt from any EWC. So that leads me to conclude that it is most likely 
that the EWC was something that Mr F and SJP discussed, and agreed upon before the 
transfer was completed.
In summary, I think it was reasonable for SJP to advise Mr F to transfer his pension savings 
into its Retirement Account. I think by doing so it allowed Mr F to meet his stated objectives 
in terms of access to his PCLS and provision of benefits for his daughters following his 
death. I am not persuaded that Mr F made SJP aware, before the advice was given, that he 
might want to use his pension savings for investment in commercial property immediately 
after the transfer was completed. And I think that SJP made Mr F sufficiently aware of the 
terms of the transfer, and in particular the Early Withdrawal Charges that might be payable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman