DRN-3561790
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the level of service received from Aviva Insurance Limited, following 
an escape of water claim against her Property Owners Insurance policy. 
Reference to Aviva include their agents. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here in detail. In 
my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, Mrs P owns a property she rents to a tenant. In August 2021, she reported an 
escape of water claim to Aviva which was accepted, and cash settled around two weeks 
later. 
Mrs P, however, wasnt happy with the way things were handled. She says Aviva 
complicated what should have been a straightforward claim by asking her for excessive 
information, ignoring her, and failing to put her tenant in alternative accommodation, 
amongst other things. She says slugs and mould was present at the property, and her tenant 
had no access to toilet or washing facilities  leaving them to travel to use the showers at a 
public facility. She says this led to a breakdown in the relationship with her tenant  who later 
filed a personal injury claim against her due to the condition of the property. 
Mrs P says had Aviva handled things correctly  such as installing drying equipment and 
arranging alternative accommodation sooner  the claim would have run far smoother than it 
did. And the relationship with her tenant wouldnt have broken down. She also says Avivas 
surveyor told the tenant they could move into alternative accommodation when they first 
visited, but Aviva later denied this was agreed. As Mrs P wasnt happy, she complained. 
Aviva responded to it in September 2021. They agreed things should have been handled 
better overall  and they should have considered the loss of rent or alternative 
accommodation section of the policy much sooner. They say confusion over whether 
renovation works were being undertaken during the time the claim was reported was a 
factor, which contributed to this error occurring. 
Aviva paid Mrs P disturbance allowance for her tenant who lived in the property whilst it was 
uninhabitable, and £200 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused to her. As 
Mrs P remained unhappy, she approached our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Whilst she thought Aviva could 
have handled things better overall, she felt they took reasonable steps to put matters right. 
Mrs P didnt agree and provided detailed submissions to support her complaint, such as 
email correspondence between her, her tenant, and other parties involved in the complaint. 
She says these emails, amongst other things, demonstrates the time and inconvenience 
Aviva caused her. 
As Mrs P didnt agree with our investigators view, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point is the policy which says Mrs P is covered for either loss of rent or 
alternative accommodation costs following a claim. Mrs P didnt suffer a loss of rent during 
the claim as the tenant continued to pay this. Where I think Aviva let Mrs P down, however, 
was their failure to give fair consideration to the condition of the property at the time the 
claim incident was reported, the works required to put matters right (the need to remove 
essential washing and toilet facilities), and the need for alternative accommodation at the 
start. 
Around mid-August 2021, Mrs P told Aviva the condition of her property had significantly 
deteriorated. From reviewing the description and photos provided of the condition of the 
property, I appreciate this would have been very concerning for Mrs P to see. But to give 
some balance to this dispute, Aviva acknowledged they made an error when failing to offer 
the tenant alternative accommodation initially, so Ive gone on to consider the steps they 
took when attempting to put matters right. 
Aviva paid a disturbance allowance of £10 per day for Mrs Ps tenant who was living in the 
property between 1 August and 31 August 2021. This payment is to reflect any additional 
costs that could be incurred due to the circumstances at that time. Im satisfied this was fair 
overall, as I havent seen any strong supporting evidence that shows further costs  over 
and above what was paid as disturbance allowance by Aviva  was incurred by the tenant, 
and reimbursed by Mrs P. 
It's clear to me Avivas error would have caused Mrs P a level of distress and inconvenience 
 over and above whats naturally expected following an escape of water claim.  To 
recognise this, they paid Mrs P £200 compensation. 
Mrs P also says Aviva lied to her, ignored her, and requested excessive information from her 
when assessing the claim. Ive also gone on to consider this, and the compensation award 
paid by Aviva. 
Its important I explain that with any claim, an insurer is entitled to validate both whether the 
circumstances reported is something the policy should respond to, and if so, whether the 
remedial work is related to the claim incident. Having reviewed things, Im not satisfied Aviva 
requested information that was so unreasonable in an excessive manner that means they 
treated Mrs P unfairly here. 
Overall, and to summarise, I agree Aviva let Mrs P down at times during the claim. I find had 
Aviva given more consideration to the condition of the property, the remedial works required, 
and the alternative accommodation section of the policy early on, things would have 
progressed much smoother than they did. That said, Im satisfied Aviva acknowledged their 
failings here and has paid Mrs P £200 compensation which I find is fair, reasonable, and 
proportionate in all the circumstances of this complaint. So, I wont be directing Aviva to 
increase this. 
Mrs P told us there was a breakdown in the relationship between her and her tenant. As 
such, the tenant filed a personal injury claim against her, and Mrs P says she was advised to 
provide the tenant with notice to leave the property. Aviva says Mrs P should contact them 
separately regarding this. The personal injury aspect doesnt form part of this complaint, so 
Ive not gone on to consider this further. I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs P. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve her dispute with Aviva  can do for her.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman