DRN-3279154
Complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Monzo didnt do more to help him when he was the victim of a scam.
Background
Mr W wanted to sell his sofa. He placed an advert on an online market place. A prospective 
buyer contacted him and agreed to pay £1,700. The buyer asked if they could pay him using 
a third-party payment system which Mr W agreed to accept. Unfortunately, the person who 
had contacted him didnt intend to buy Mr Ws sofa, but merely wanted to create the 
conditions to allow him to perpetrate a scam.
Mr W was sent several emails which appeared to be from that third party. These emails 
explained to Mr W that his buyer had overpaid him. It asked him to make a bank transfer to 
correct this overpayment, after which he would receive the proceeds of the sale of his sofa. 
Mr W made payments from his account with Monzo and an account he holds with a different 
bank. From his Monzo account, he made two payments for £510 and £260.
Once he realised that hed fallen victim to a scam, he contacted Monzo to let it know. It 
contacted the receiving bank which was able to recover £2.01 of Mr Ws funds. 
Unfortunately, the rest had been moved out of the receiving account by the scammer.
Monzo declined to refund these two payments. It considered whether it needed to do so if it 
applied the terms of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code and decided that 
Mr W hadnt had a reasonable basis of belief that this payment request was genuine and 
shouldve proceeded with caution. If he had carried out further enquiries directly with the 
third party, hed have quickly uncovered that this request couldnt have been a genuine one.
Mr W was unhappy with Monzos response and so he referred a complaint to this service. It 
was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. The Investigator found that Mr W did have a 
reasonable basis for believing the payment request to be genuine. She said that the emails 
were plausibly from the third party given their visual presentation and, although to the 
experienced reader there were clear warning signs that this might be a scam, she didnt 
think the typical customer wouldve recognised them. To do so wouldve required a 
reasonably good base of knowledge about the most common scams.
Monzo had argued that it was illogical for Mr W to be asked to make a payment in order to 
receive funds from his buyer. The Investigator didnt think it would seem so to a customer 
who was unfamiliar with advance-fee scams such as this one and, since hed appeared to 
receive the request from a legitimate business, he wouldve had no reason to doubt its 
authenticity.
Monzo also argued that Mr W shouldve checked his account with the third party to see if the 
frozen funds were shown in his recent account activity. But the Investigator didnt think this 
would necessarily have dissuaded Mr W from following the instructions of the scammer. 
Hed been told that his funds were being held and so he wouldnt automatically have 
expected to see them appear in his recent transactions.
Monzo disagreed with the Investigators opinion. In addition to the arguments it had already 
made, it added that:
Mr W should be expected to carry out due diligence before transferring money to 
someone they didnt know, particularly where hes anticipating the receipt of funds 
rather than being expected to pay for something himself.
Mr W shouldve recognised that it was unusual for him to be asked to make the 
payment by bank transfer.
Because Monzo disagreed with the Investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment. 
The Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code sets out 
that, as a starting point, a customer should receive a refund if they fall victim to an APP 
scam such as this one. A business is free to decline to pay a refund if it can show that one of 
the exceptions in the code applies. Ive considered whether Monzo should have reimbursed 
Mr W in line with the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought to have done more to 
protect him from the risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr W was tricked into making the payments. He thought it was 
necessary for him to make these payments in order to receive the payment for the goods 
hed sold online. But even though he was a victim of a scam, hes not entitled to a refund if 
Monzo can establish that he failed to meet his requisite level of care under one or more of 
the exceptions set out in the code.
Monzo hasnt argued that Mr W ignored an effective warning before making these 
payments. And in any event, these payments were relatively small and so I dont think its 
obligation to display a warning was engaged here. However, it can fairly and reasonably 
decline to pay a refund if the customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for 
believing that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment 
was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they 
transacted was legitimate.
Ive considered this point carefully and Im satisfied that Mr W did have a reasonable basis 
for believing that the payments he was making were in response to legitimate requests from 
the third party.The emails he received are visually similar to legitimate emails that it wouldve sent. They 
included the official company logo and convincingly displayed details of the payment he 
believed hed received and an official ID number associated with the transaction. Overall, I 
dont think there was anything immediately apparent in terms of the presentation of the 
emails that wouldve been a cause for concern for Mr W.
The point Monzo makes about the illogic of making a payment in order to receive funds is 
well made. But erroneous overpayments are a common occurrence in the world of online 
payments and the idea that his buyer might have paid too much is not an implausible one. I 
dont think it would be unreasonable for Mr W to have simply assumed that the third party 
was protecting his buyer from the risk that Mr W might take advantage of an accidental 
overpayment. 
The fact that he was asked to correct the overpayment by making a bank transfer (and 
therefore taking him outside of the third partys payment system) would seem very unusual 
to a customer whos experienced with sending and receiving money through that system. 
But that doesnt apply to Mr W  hes told us that hed made only limited use of the third 
party in the past.
I recognise that if Mr W had contacted the third party directly or spent some time researching 
this request on its website, theres a chance he might have found something that dispelled 
the notion that this request was a genuine one. But from his perspective, this appeared to be 
a legitimate request. The emails he received were effectively indistinguishable from genuine 
ones and so he didnt identify any need to carry out further research before making the 
payments.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr W made these payments with a reasonable basis for believing 
them to be genuine and so it follows that Monzo cant rely on the exception described above 
to decline to pay him a refund.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint.
If Mr W accepts my final decision, Monzo Bank Ltd should:
 refund him the two payments he made to the scammer, less the funds it was able to 
recover from the receiving account. 
It should also add 8% simple interest per annum on these payments from the date Mr 
W made them until the date it pays a settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman