DRN-3312546
The complaint
Miss D has complained about her car insurer Soteria Insurance Limited in respect of work it 
carried out on her car after she had an accident.
What happened
A tyre on Miss Ds car burst and she collided with a hedge. Soteria took her car for repair. 
But Miss D wasnt happy with the repairs, the car was returned to her with a low battery in 
the key fob and, for example, the stop/start button missing. She didnt think all the repairs 
were necessary. For example. Soteria replaced two tyres on the car, one of which Miss Ds 
recovery company had replaced for her at the roadside. She wanted Soteria to detail every 
repair, showing receipts for all parts.
Soteria had an engineer inspect Miss Ds car. The engineer found that work had been 
completed to a good standard and that there was only one problem outstanding following 
Soterias repairs. That was with the door lock button which the engineer said needed 
replacing. Soteria thought this could be rectified by sending Miss D a part she could fit 
herself. But the wrong part was sent, and then, when it sent a mechanic to Miss Ds 
property, he couldnt gain access behind the door panel in order to complete the work. 
Soteria said the car could be returned to the garage for this repair to be completed. 
Regarding the tyres the engineer said Soteria should never have replaced one of the two 
left-side tyres  it had caused the crash, rather than been damaged during it. And in respect 
of a seatbelt trim which Miss D had told Soteria she had had to have repaired following its 
work on the car, the engineer said there was no evidence of this. The engineer felt the costs 
charged by the garage had generally been reasonable. Soteria relied on the engineers 
findings and offered Miss D £75 compensation for the upset caused by the door lock button 
issue.
Miss D remained unhappy. She noted the issue with the stop/start button hadnt been 
addressed. She felt she was out of pocket in respect of the tyre shed paid her recovery 
company to replace. Overall she still felt the garage had likely done work that was 
unnecessary and which had increased the claim costs. Miss D complained to us. 
Our investigator asked Soteria about the stop/start button. It said this issue hadnt been 
drawn to its attention before. Our investigator initially accepted this and told Miss D she 
needed to make a separate complaint about this if she wanted to pursue it. But upon review 
it was noted that Soterias file referenced the stop/start button being damaged. And that this, 
along with all the other repair/damage issues raised at that time, would need to be 
considered by the engineer. But the engineer then didnt consider the stop/start button in his 
assessment. When asked about this Soteria accepted this issue had been missed, but 
pointed out that Miss D hadnt addressed the issue with the engineer when he had 
completed his assessment. It said it felt this was odd. But it offered to look at the stop/start 
button, along with the door lock button, if/when the car is returned to the garage. 
Regarding the tyre our investigator explained to Soteria that Miss D appeared to have paid 
about £150 more for the tyre her recovery company had fitted, than the price of the one she 
now had the benefit from on her car (fitted in error by Soterias garage). Soteria agreed to 
pay Miss D £150.
Our investigator otherwise felt Soterias response to the complaint had been reasonable. 
And, in that respect, he said he was persuaded by the engineers report. He felt that in the 
main Soteria hadnt done anything wrong, and that whilst it could have handled repair issues 
better, the £75 compensation it had offered to make up for the door lock button issue, was 
fair and reasonable. 
Miss D told our investigator that she may get her own report on the car. However, Miss D 
later told our investigator that, due to unforeseen circumstances, she wasnt going to be able 
to do this.
Miss D also said though that she had noted that Soterias capture detail of her accident 
recorded her as colliding with roadside furniture. She said that is inaccurate  it was a 
hedge. She said shes sure that extra unnecessary work was done to her car, such as 
replacing all its windows and the windscreen. Miss D argued the garage, therefore, 
reasonably needs to provide all of its receipts for all of the work done to her car, so that what 
it did is evidenced. She said the total cost of the claim, as it stands, is affecting her 
premiums. Miss D said shed like a garage of her choice to complete the outstanding work, 
rather than return her car to Soterias garage.
As Miss D didnt agree her complaint was passed to me to assess. I felt differently to our 
investigator, not least that more compensation was fairly and reasonably due. So I issued a 
provisional decision. Both parties considered my findings and said they had nothing further 
to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
Unnecessary work and premium increase
I think its fair to say that Miss Ds overriding concern is that the repair of her car, and/or the 
cost of that was exaggerated by the garage. Ive considered all Miss Ds concerns in this 
respect, and note she hasnt, understandably in the circumstances, been able to acquire a 
report of her own.
I understand why Mis D would be concerned about what work was done to her car. I think 
I would likely question what was necessary if this was my car and its repairs totalled nearly 
£8,000 when I had only driven into a hedge. But also when its clear that, at least in one 
respect, unnecessary work was authorised and completed by Soteria  replacement tyres. 
But Soteria had an independent engineer assess the car and he was satisfied, with the 
exception of the tyres (and the door lock which Ill come onto), that all work necessary as a 
result of the accident had been done and that the costs charged for this work were 
reasonable. And in saying that he considered Miss Ds specific concern about the windows 
and windscreen. He said hed seen photos of the damaged windscreen and was satisfied 
that the back window had been replaced to match the remaining original glass on the other 
side of the car. Ive no reason to doubt his views on the work and costs.
Whilst I appreciate that Miss D is now seeing an extra cost for her insurance premiums, Ive 
no reason to have Soteria amend its recorded cost of the claim as the engineer has, in the main, verified the work done and its cost. He was critical of Soteria having authorised and 
replaced the tyres. But that work came at a relatively minimal cost which isnt likely, in my 
view, to affect premiums. And, in any event, I think its most likely the fact that Miss D had an 
accident that resulted in a claim which will be affecting Miss Ds premiums, rather than the 
total costs recorded against it.
Start/stop button and the door lock button
Soteria has now said it will consider the first issue, and it has maintained its offer to replace 
the lock button. But it says this is all to be dealt with by its garage. In the circumstances 
I dont think thats reasonable. It had the chance to assess the stop/start button and fix the 
lock button before this complaint came to us. But didnt do so. And I can understand why, 
after its failed attempts to resolve the lock button issue, Miss D has lost faith in the garages 
ability to sort out these outstanding repairs. However, Im also mindful, when thinking about 
appropriate redress for these issues in the circumstance here, that Miss D has recently 
suffered a major health event which she is now trying to recover from. Given the situation 
I think its important and fair for my redress to be tailored so it causes her the least possible 
inconvenience. With that in mind I intend to give Miss D the choice of the following:
Soteria can appoint the independent engineer used previously (if available and willing to 
do the work  otherwise another independent) to determine what it will cost to replace 
the door lock button and the stop/start button. If the engineer feels it is necessary for him 
to do so he may ask to visit Miss Ds home in order to view the car, and Miss D, or 
someone on her behalf, would need to cooperate with and facilitate that request. Once 
he has determined what these two specific repairs will cost, Soteria should pay that sum 
to Miss D so she can complete repairs when she feels able;
or:
Miss D can have a garage of her choice provide an estimate for replacing the lock button 
and the stop/start button. But it will be up to Miss D, if necessary, to get the car to her 
garage for assessment. The estimate will have to be sent to Soteria and it will have to 
pay the costs set out for the work detailed as necessary to replace these two items.
Im giving Miss D this choice as she knows her own circumstances best and can best 
determine which option will likely cause her the least inconvenience. On this occasion I wont 
allow Soteria to withhold the VAT element of the cost of these repairs (whichever way 
Miss D chooses to determine the cost). Here, I think that requiring Miss D to contact it again 
when repairs are done in order to claim the VAT would be an additional inconvenience for 
her which I dont think is appropriate in the circumstances.
Tyres
Soteria, inexplicably, replaced both of Miss Ds left-side tyres. It accepts it shouldnt have 
replaced the rear one. But in doing this Soteria disadvantaged Miss D in respect of the rear 
tyre. I say that as it had just been replaced at the roadside following the accident by Miss Ds 
recovery company. The recovery company had fitted a premium brand tyre for which Miss D 
had paid it £279. Soterias error meant that tyre was replaced by its garage for a mid-range 
tyre that costs, on average, about £150 less than what Miss D paid. Soteria has agreed to 
pay Miss D £150  being the difference between what she paid for a replacement tyre and 
the cost of the replacement tyre she is actually getting to use. I think thats a reasonable 
resolution.  Key battery
I know Miss D was disappointed to find, when her car was returned to her, that the battery in 
the key was low. She thinks the garage should have made sure it wasnt in danger of 
running out. But I dont see this was an issue caused by the crash. So I dont think it was 
something the garage reasonably had to do. 
Distress and inconvenience
I think that has all been very frustrating for Miss D. In my view she had good cause to be 
concerned about some of the work completed to her car, including that some issues 
remained outstanding. I also think that Miss D was caused unnecessary aggravation 
because Soteria kept misunderstanding the point she was making about the replacement 
tyre she had paid for and which it had swapped for one of lesser quality. Miss D was entitled 
to expect Soteria to repair her car without incident  but that was not what occurred. Im 
satisfied she was caused distress and inconvenience as a result, over a number of months. 
I think Soteria should pay Miss D a total of £300 compensation. This includes the £75 it 
offered previously  if this has been paid it will now only have to pay Miss D £225.
As neither party has objected to my findings, Ive no need to change them. They are now the 
findings of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Soteria to pay Miss D:
An amount, including VAT, to allow her to replace her cars stop/start button and the 
mismatched door lock button. The sum to be paid in this respect to be determined, at 
Miss D choice by either:
Soteria appointing the independent engineer used previously (if available and willing 
to do the work  otherwise another independent) to determine what it will cost to 
replace the door lock button and the stop/start button. If the engineer feels it is 
necessary for him to do so he may ask to visit Miss Ds home in order to view the car, 
and Miss D, or someone on her behalf, would need to cooperate with and facilitate 
that request. Once he has determined what these two specific repairs will cost, 
Soteria should pay that sum to Miss D so she can complete repairs when she feels 
able;
or:
Miss D can have a garage of her choice provide an estimate for replacing the lock 
button and the stop/start button. But it will be up to Miss D, if necessary, to get the 
car to her garage for assessment. The estimate will have to be sent to Soteria and it 
will have to pay the costs set out for the work detailed as necessary to replace these 
two items.
£150 as reimbursement for the tyre she replaced but didnt have benefit from.
£300 compensation in total for the distress and inconvenience she was caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Soteria Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman