DRN-2272301
The complaint
Mr K complains that Buffa Loans Ltd, trading as Buffa, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Between March and June 2019, Mr K borrowed two loans from Buffa. The lending history is 
set out below:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Planned 
instalmentsAmount  
(£)Monthly 
Repayment (£)
1 14/03/2019 31/05/2019 5 260 92.38
2 19/06/2019 outstanding 6 210 58.42
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought that from what 
Buffa knew about Mr Ks circumstances at the time, the loans would have appeared to be 
sustainably affordable. Mr K disagreed with that view and so the matter was passed to me to 
make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I thought the complaint should be upheld in 
respect of loan 2. I said: 
Buffa needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr K could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, 
in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Buffa should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I note that for both loans, Buffa undertook a reasonably thorough credit check. So, I 
would expect it to take account of the information it received in that regard before it 
made its lending decision.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Buffa was required to establish 
whether Mr K could sustainably repay the loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as 
being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should 
realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to 
make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
I can see that when he applied for loan 1, Mr K declared his income to be £2,100 per 
month and his expenditure to be £854 per month. Of that expenditure, £200 was said 
to constitute other credit repayments. On the face of it, the loan repayments of 
£92.38 would have appeared to be sustainably affordable.
However, as I said above, Buffa had also undertaken a relatively thorough credit 
check. At that time, he had 12 active credit accounts, four of which had been opened 
in the preceding 12 months. I think Buffa would have seen from that credit check that 
Mr Ks credit expenditure was significantly greater than that which he had declared. 
However, even when taking account of the additional credit, at that stage, I think the 
loan would have appeared sustainably affordable. I cant say Buffa was irresponsible 
to agree loan 1.
When Mr K applied for loan 2, I think the position was different. Mr K declared that 
his expenditure had increased, but his credit repayments were still said to be £200 
per month. However, I can see from the credit report that his number of active credit 
accounts had increased to 18. That means he had opened six new accounts within 
the space of three months. From the credit reports, it seems likely to me that his debt 
repayments exceeded £800 per month. I think this should have triggered a full review 
of Mr Ks financial circumstances before Buffa agreed to lend loan 2.
Had that review been undertaken, I think Buffa would have seen that Mr K was 
indebted to several high-cost short term lenders. On that basis, he appeared to have 
been reliant on this type of borrowing and was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in his income, but to meet an ongoing need. He hadnt really 
made inroads into the amount he owed Buffa, borrowing almost the same amount for 
loan 2 as hed just repaid in respect of loan 1. Putting everything together, my 
provisional view is that Buffa shouldnt have agreed to lend Mr K loan 2 and it will 
need to take action to put things right.
Mr K responded to my provisional decision and said that he agreed with my initial findings. 
No response was received from Buffa. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
As neither party provided me with any further information or evidence to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. So for the reasons set out above, I uphold this 
complaint in respect of loan 2. Buffa will need to take action to put things right for Mr K. 
Putting things right
As I said above, it appears there is an outstanding balance in respect of loan 2. If that is the 
case and Buffa sold the outstanding debt to a third party, it must buy it back if it can and then 
follow the steps set out below. If it cannot buy the debt back, it must liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below.
a) Buffa must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of loan 2, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr K as though they had been repayments of the principal on this loan. 
If this results in Mr K having made overpayments then Buffa must refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated and paid on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
b) However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Buffa should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr K. It must not pursue outstanding balances made up of 
principal it has already written-off.
c) Buffa must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in relation to 
loan 2.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Buffa to take off tax from this interest. Buffa must give Mr 
K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If Buffa and Mr K do agree a repayment plan, I remind Buffa of its obligation to treat Mr K 
fairly.
My final decision
I have upheld this complaint in respect of loan 2. Buffa Loans Ltd, trading as Buffa, must put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman