DRN-3604621
Complaint
Mr R has complained that Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) unfairly accepted him as the 
guarantor on a guarantor loan taken out by his then girlfriend. He says there was no 
explanation of the implications of them splitting up and him being left to make the payments.
Background
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr R and Bamboo had told us. And she thought that 
Bamboo shouldnt have accepted Mr R as the guarantor for this loan. So she upheld Mr Rs 
complaint. Bamboo disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at this complaint.
My provisional decision of 12 July 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 12 July 2022 - setting out why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr Rs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by setting out that weve explained how we handle complaints about handle 
complaints about guarantor loans on our website and that I used this approach to help me 
decide Mr Rs complaint.
I then went on to consider what Mr R said about believing that hed only have to make 
payments to this loan if the borrower were to die, fall ill or become unemployed. I thought 
about what Mr R said and I also listened to a recording of the call that he had with Bamboo 
before being accepted as a guarantor. 
During this call Mr R said he wanted to ensure that his parents wouldnt be responsible for 
the loan. Bamboos representative confirmed that this was the case. But the representative 
didnt say anything about Mr R only being responsible for making payments in the event the 
borrower were to die, fall ill or become unemployed. So I didnt think that Mr R had been 
misled into thinking this was the case.
I then went on to consider what, if any, checks Bamboo caried out on Mr R before accepting 
him as a guarantor on this loan.
I explained that Bamboo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr R could afford to make the loan payments in the event he had to before 
accepting him as the guarantor on this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed also 
expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue lending to a customer irresponsibly.
In this case, Bamboo had provided the borrower with a guarantor loan for £3,000.00 in 
January 2017. It was secured by way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement and was to 
due be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of around £185.
Bamboo said it accepted Mr R as a guarantor after he provided details of his monthly income 
and expenditure. It says it cross-checked Mr Rs expenditure declaration against information 
on a credit search it carried out and data from the Office of National Statistics. All of this 
information showed that Mr R would be able to make the loan repayments in the event he 
had to. On the other hand, Mr R said he wasnt in a position to afford these monthly 
payments.
I thought about what Mr R and Bamboo said. I firstly explained that the information provided 
did suggest that Mr R was asked to provide details of his income and expenditure and 
Bamboo didnt just rely on what it was told. Our investigator thought that Bamboo needed to 
do more to verify Mr Rs actual expenditure. But the credit search Bamboo carried showed 
that he didnt have much existing credit and his accounts were well managed. 
So I thought that there was no concerning information on the credit file and on the contrary, I 
thought it suggested Mr R was in a stable enough position to maintain the payments in the 
event he had to. In these circumstances, I didnt think that it was unreasonable to use ONS 
data to calculate Mr Rs non-mortgage related living expenses as everything obtained 
suggested he didnt fall outside the profile of the average customer and there was a 
reasonable margin left over to make the loan payments.
I went on to consider what Mr R had said about having difficulty making payments. But it 
seemed to me that any difficulty Mr R might have had making the payments to this loan 
stemmed from his relationship with his girlfriend breaking up and the resulting increase in his 
expenditure. I acknowledged that Mr R said Bamboo didnt consider the possibility of his 
relationship ending. But I didnt think that this was something that Bamboo was in a position 
to evaluate and it couldnt have been expected to know that Mr Rs circumstances would 
change in the way that it did. 
I did accept that Mr R might not have been expecting to make the payments and he might 
even have felt that it was unfair he had to do so given it was the borrower who received the 
funds. But that was the nature of the agreement he entered into. I also thought that it would 
be helpful for me to explain that it was only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint 
in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I didnt think that 
Bamboo had done anything wrong when deciding to accept Mr R as a guarantor. The key 
thing here was that it carried out proportionate checks which suggested the repayments 
would be affordable for him. Mr Rs actions at the time at least also suggested that he was 
willingly agreeing to act as a guarantor on this loan. 
So overall I didnt think that Bamboo treated Mr R unfairly or unreasonably when accepting 
him as the guarantor on this loan. As this was the case and while I sympathised with Mr R as 
a result of the position he ended up in, I concluded by stating that I wasnt intending to 
uphold his complaint. Bamboos response to my provisional decision
Bamboo confirmed receiving my provisional decision and that it didnt have anything further 
that it wished to be considered.
Mr Rs response to my provisional decision
Mr R responded to say that while the rules dont specify the checks which lenders need to 
carry out, the basic checks should include verification of income and expenditure where that 
possible. He also said that his bank statements were available and that these would have 
shown the loan payments to be unaffordable in the event he needed to make them. Finally, 
he said that Bamboo wouldnt have offered him £400 in full and final settlement of his 
complaint if it had done nothing wrong.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr R for his further comments.
Ive considered Mr Rs further points but Ive not been persuaded to change my opinion here. 
Mr R has said that Bamboo should have verified the information that he provided during his 
application. I agree that it is sensible for a lender to take steps to verify at least some of the 
information provided for any lending application. But any verification needs to be 
proportionate to the circumstances. And obtaining bank statements isnt the only way for a 
lender to take steps to verify the information provided by a prospective guarantor.
In this case, Bamboo carried out a credit search on Mr R to check on his credit 
commitments. So it didnt just simply accept what Mr R declared about his expenditure. It 
took steps to check whether his declaration was accurate. The credit check carried out didnt 
call into question what Mr R declared about his expenditure. Bamboo also cross-checked   
Mr Rs other non-credit related expenditure against information from the Office of National 
Statistics. I think that this was reasonable in this case as the information on the credit check 
didnt suggest that Mr R fell outside the portfolio of the average consumer. 
So its clear that Bamboo did take steps to verify at least some of the information provided  
even though it didnt obtain Mr Rs bank statements. As there was nothing concerning in the 
information obtained and the amount being lent as well as the monthly payments were 
relatively low, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Bamboo to proceed on the basis of the 
information that it did have. And I dont think that it needed to obtain Mr Rs bank statements 
in the way that he is suggesting.  
As this is the case, while I sympathise with what Mr R has said about his financial position 
and his thoughts about the need for a more thorough check, Im satisfied that what Bamboo 
did do, did go far enough in this case  notwithstanding the offer it made without accepting 
Mr Rs complaint in its final response. So I think that Bamboo was reasonably entitled to 
conclude that Mr R could afford to make the repayments to this loan in the event he had to 
and as this is the case, I dont think that it acted unfairly or unreasonably to him. 
Finally, Ive seen that Mr R has raised concerns about Bamboos actions when he says he 
got in contact to explain he couldnt make the payments to this loan. But I dont think it is 
appropriate for me to comment about these matters in this decision. I say this as I cant see 
that Bamboo has had the chance to consider what Mr R has said. And we only normally look 
at a complaint once a respondent firm has had the chance to consider the matter. So if Mr R wants these matters considered, hell have to raise them with Bamboo in the first instance. 
Subject to meeting the necessary requirements, Mr R may be able to refer his concerns 
about this to us, should he be unhappy with Bamboos response.
Overall and having considered everything, including Mr Rs response to my provisional 
decision, Ive not been persuaded to alter the conclusions I reached on 12 July 2022. So Im 
still not upholding Mr Rs complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr R  
especially as he was initially led to believe that his complaint should be upheld. But I hope 
Mr R will understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns 
have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 12 July 2022, Im not 
upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman