DRN-3671234
The complaint
Mr R complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) isnt allowing him 
to use his companion vouchers as he believes he should be.
What happened
Mr R says that he had previously been able to use two companion vouchers at the same 
time, however the terms and conditions then changed. He said paid his membership fee and 
spent enough money on the credit card to earn his companion voucher before the terms of 
the offer was changed. He wants to be able to use both his vouchers at the same time.
AESEL explained that Mr R held an American Express Premium Plus Card which was 
partnered with an airline. It had an annual membership fee of £250 and on which Mr R would 
earn points and at a certain spend threshold during the billing year he would be awarded a 
companion voucher. It said Mr R qualified for a companion voucher in November 2020 and 
again in November 2021. It said that the in September 2021, the airline changed the terms 
and conditions governing the companion vouchers meaning that Mr R couldnt use his two 
vouchers in one booking. It said the airline was responsible for the companion terms and 
conditions. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She noted that the terms and conditions 
relating to the companion vouchers could be changed at any time with three months notice 
and that any changes would not affect the companion vouchers already issued. She said 
that Mr Rs second voucher was issued after the change in the terms and so the new terms 
applied.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that a key point had been missed as 
the investigator had noted that any changes to the terms would not affect the validity of any 
companion vouchers that had already been issued. He said that while the voucher hadnt 
been issued this wasnt relevant as he had fulfilled his obligations by paying the membership 
fee and spending the required amount on his credit card.
As a resolution hasnt been agreed, this case has been passed to me, an ombudsman to 
issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the frustration Mr R has experienced as he wanted to use his two companion 
vouchers in one booking. I appreciate this had previously been possible. However, this 
complaint is against AESEL and for me to uphold it, I would need to be satisfied that AESEL 
had done something wrong or treated Mr R unfairly.
AESEL has explained that the credit card account Mr R has is a co-brand account with an 
airline company. AESEL is responsible for the day to day management of the account and 
will notify the airline when a customer becomes eligible for a companion voucher. Mr R met 
the threshold requirement for the companion voucher in November 2020 and November 
2021, and these were provided. AESEL has explained that the companion vouchers are 
issued by the airline and are subject to terms and conditions set by the airline. Based on the 
information provided I do not find that AESEL has done anything wrong in regard to the 
process of the companion vouchers being issued.
Mr Rs complaint is that the terms for the use of the companion vouchers changed. As noted 
above this would have been decided by the airline and not AESEL. The change to the terms 
happened in September 2021 which was before Mr Rs November 2021 companion voucher 
was issued. While I note Mr Rs comments that he had paid the annual fee before the 
change in the terms, as the companion voucher was issued after September 2021, the new 
terms as set out by the airline applied to this.
In conclusion, I understand why Mr R is upset but I do not find the AESEL has done anything 
wrong in this case or treated unfairly in regard to his credit card account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman