DRN-2216285
The complaint
Mr B complains that Financial Administration Services Limited (FAS) failed to act promptly 
when instructed to sell his holdings and pay the proceeds to his nominated account. It also 
was responsible for further unnecessary delays, including converting his money into dollars 
and sending this to his US account.
What happened
An investigator at this service assessed each of Mr Bs complaint points and felt FAS had 
generally acted reasonably. In his view there was no substantial disagreement about the 
timeline of events, as follows:
After an initial phone call, Mr B gave FAS written instructions to liquidate his holdings and 
specified where the funds should be sent. Two days later, on 5 June 2019, FAS told Mr B it 
could not transfer the money to the specified account as this was held by a third party (which 
it had no record of in relation to Mr B). It had, however, already encashed his holdings.
It had also started an investigation to check if this was an attempted fraudulent transaction 
and so would not be releasing the funds. It concluded this investigation on 20 June. 
On 24 June it received Mr Bs new instructions: to place his GB funds into a UK account in 
his name and to transfer the EURO funds into dollars and put this money into a US account 
in his name. His GB funds were processed that day. After verifying Mr Bs US account, and 
undertaking the EURO/dollar transfer, Mr B eventually received the funds on 16 July.
The investigator reached the following conclusions about Mr Bs complaint points:
Mr B claimed that FAS had said, in a phone call of 31 May, that it could transfer all 
his money into an account set up by his broker. But, having listened to the call, he 
noted that neither Mr B nor his broker had said the account would not be in his (Mr 
Bs) name. Given this, he felt it was reasonable for the call handler to assume the 
proposed account would be in Mr Bs name. As such, FAS had not done anything 
wrong
 He felt FAS was right to liquidate Mr Bs funds as soon it received his instructions 
(even though it had concerns about the proposed account). If it had delayed the 
sale this could have resulted in a fall in value which Mr B could rightly have 
complained about
UK banks would not normally pay monies into a third-party account and FAS was 
right to insist on further verification. It was also right to be concerned about this 
unusual request and was entitled to carry out security checks to ensure the 
instruction was genuine
It was also reasonable to question why the request had not been made by the 
receiving platform and as a business-to-business transfer. This could have been 
done either as a holdings transfer or in cash, both of which would have sped up the 
process
The GB funds were processed in a timely fashion after the completion of the security 
checks, and Mr B was notified of this
FAS was also entitled to carry out security checks on Mr Bs US account
FAS failed to explain its process of selling and repurchasing the EURO/US funds 
which resulted in the monies not being received until 16 July. It accepts it should 
have explained its processes
FAS did not need to repurchase the same amount of units as it sold but simply match 
the monetary value they had been sold at. It repurchased the EURO holdings which 
Mr B was entitled to with the cash funds in the account. There were no transaction 
fees for repurchasing and selling or any FX conversion fees. As such, Mr B was not 
financially disadvantaged by the process FAS used to convert his EUR funds to 
USD
Given this, its offer of £500 to compensate for its failure to explain its processes (plus 
slow response to certain issues) was reasonable
Mr B did not agree, and said:
FAS should have made clear, in the initial phone call, that the receiving account had 
to be in his name
Why, when it received an instruction it could not fill (on 31 May), didnt it contact him 
to check whether he still wanted to sell his holdings? As sales are based on end-of-
day prices a brief delay would not have affected the sale price
Why did it need to launch an unnecessary fraud investigation rather than simply 
inform him that he needed to provide a UK account in his name or to arrange for a 
business-to-business transfer?
Why couldnt it have gone ahead and immediately processed his GB funds to his UK 
personal account, which it had previous dealings with via dividend payments?
Why did it need to continue its investigation after he had provided it with an 
alternative account in his name?
Why did it take so long to verify his US account after he had sent it all the necessary 
documentation?
Why did it use such a strange method to convert the EURO proceeds to USD,
causing further delays, rather than a straightforward currency conversion?
The investigator did not change his view, and added:
He was satisfied that the investigation into fraudulent activity was reasonable as FAS 
has an obligation to complete due-diligence on transactions to ensure they are 
genuine
Freezing the funds while the investigation was ongoing was a necessary safeguard 
as even a transfer to a personal account may have been a risk
Yes, it took FAS longer to verify and process the transfers to Mr Bs overseas 
account compared to the transfer to his UK account but this account needed to be 
verified and the payments arranged. He didnt feel the time it took to complete the 
overseas transfers was unreasonable
FAS is an investment platform and, unlike a bank, does not have a facility to offer 
currency conversions. As such the method it used to convert his currency - the re-
purchase and sale of holdings  was reasonable and this method avoids any FX 
conversion fees
Mr B did not agree, and added:
FASs call handler said that it only required a signed instruction from the client 
specifying the account details; the phone transcript confirms thisFAS admitted that if it couldnt fulfil a clients entire instruction it should contact them 
for further instruction
Further, he forwarded comments from his advisor/broker who had been party to several of 
the calls and agreed with his interpretation of the 31 May call and other issues. The broker 
also added:
FAS agreed to a proposed wording of the encashment instructions including 
confirmation that his company could act on Mr Bs behalf
He made clear that the funds should not be transferred from US dollars or EUROs 
into Sterling
Despite the letter of authority FAS refused to speak to him subsequently (5 June) 
which made the call with Mr B difficult
He confirmed that the proposed account was In Mr Bs name. albeit in a third partys 
business. This was a common structure in the UK. Doubtless FAS holds clients 
accounts in a similar structure
Since the funds were encashed, but not paid out, the UK Stock Market had grown by 
3%. Mr B has lost out on this growth 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. Having listened to the 
key phone calls and considered the additional evidence, I am satisfied that he reached a fair 
and reasonable assessment of the issues.
Given this, I do not intend to repeat his detailed explanation behind his conclusions. Overall, 
it is important to stress that my role  and that of this service  is to decide whether a 
business clearly did something wrong, not merely whether it might have done things 
differently.
So, while the call handler could have spelt out that FAS could only pay funds to a clients 
personal bank account, I dont think he needed to do this in the absence of Mr B raising the 
issue. 
Equally, it is not for this service to tell a business how to conduct its business unless its 
processes or rules are manifestly unfair to customers. So I am satisfied that FAS was 
entitled to encash all of Mr Bs holdings on receipt of his instructions even though it identified 
a problem with paying to an unverified third party. I dont believe it was required to contact 
Mr B to clarify his intentions before doing this.
As money-laundering regulations have become, rightly, ever more stringent, I cannot criticise 
FAS for adopting the cautious approach it did, both in launching an investigation and then 
refusing to put this on hold when Mr B provided new information. Given the ingenious 
fraudulent activity now awash throughout the financial sector, it was understandable that it 
took such a cautious approach.
I also dont believe it is for me to tell FAS how to deal with encashments/transfers involving 
foreign currencies. While its approach appeared cumbersome and slow, I cannot say this 
was unacceptable particularly given it does not handle currency exchanges itself.In essence, while I recognise that Mr B found the whole process time-consuming, frustrating 
and slow, I dont accept FAS was wrong to act in the way it did. Nor do I think the time it took 
to undertake certain transactions was unacceptable.
FASs offer of £500 recognises that it could have done things better in some ways including 
making clear how it would deal with Mr Bs foreign currency cash. In my view, it ought to 
have noted Mr Bs brokers comments about not wanting the foreign currency encashed and 
converted to Sterling - and made clearer that this was how it operated in these situations. 
But, overall, I am satisfied that the offer of £500 fairly reflects its modest errors, albeit ones 
which caused Mr B considerable upset. If this has yet to be paid I recommend FAS does so.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman