DRN-2404964
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined a claim 
she made for vet fees, under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2020, Mrs B took her dog, who Ill call D, to the vets. She had concerns about Ds 
health  because her legs had recently started to give way. And after this happened D would 
struggle to regain her balance. The vet referred D to a specialist, for a review of her heart. 
The specialist identified that D had an irregular heartbeat, and a leaking heart valve. 
Mrs B contacted Red Sands to make a claim for the cost of the fees charged by the vet and 
specialist for looking into this issue. 
Red Sands looked into the loss  and explained to Mrs B that it would be declining her claim. 
Red Sands noted that this was because Mrs Bs policy had a condition limit  which said it 
would only provide cover for a condition, for 365 days from its onset. Red Sands said it could 
see that the vet notes from Ds 2018 and 2019 check-ups highlighted issues with Ds heart. 
And therefore, when Mrs B made a claim in May 2020, the onset of the condition was over 
365 days ago. So, no cover was in place.
Mrs B didnt think this was fair, and so raised a complaint. She explained that prior to May 
2020 D had been a healthy dog. Mrs B noted that D did get very anxious attending the vets, 
and this was the case when she was taken for her yearly check-ups and injections in 2018 
and 2019. Mrs B said on both occasions she had no concerns regarding Ds health, and that 
the problems with Ds heart rate were likely due to D being distressed during the visits. And, 
she highlighted the vet had noted Ds heart rate increasing whilst in the consultation room. 
Red Sands maintained its position on the matter. So, Mrs B referred her complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think this complaint should be upheld. 
He said there was a clear condition limit in the policy, giving a limited timeframe of 365 days 
from the noticed onset of the condition, for the condition to be covered. Our investigator said 
that the vet notes in May 2018 did highlight a concern with Ds heart rate, and the vet had 
suggested an ECG be undertaken on D at that point. So, he was satisfied the 365 days 
started when the vet first noticed an issue in 2018. Therefore, by May 2020 when 
investigations were carried out, the condition was no longer covered.
Mrs B didnt agree. She highlighted that in 2018 they were told the problem with Ds heart 
rate was only related to the stress of the visit to the vets. And if there had been any 
suggestion there could be a different problem, she would have ensured this was looked into. 
In addition to this, Mrs B felt our investigator should have contacted the specialist that 
examined D, because this specialist had highlighted that the problem was unrelated to 
anything before.
Because Mrs B disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I can appreciate why this would 
be upsetting for Mrs B. D is clearly unwell, and the claim not being covered has meant 
unexpected costs in relation to the matter too. But Id like to reassure both parties I have 
carefully considered all submissions. Ive explained why Ive reached my decision below.
Ive reviewed Mrs Bs policy documents, to see what cover this pet insurance provides for. 
On doing so, I can see that the policy says it will provide cover for a vet fees. But, as is 
common with insurance policies, there are limits to this cover. It is explained that cover is 
provided for vet fees for 365 days, from the date either the policyholder or a vet notices the 
condition. After that 365 days, the policy will no longer cover the condition. 
Ive also looked to see what a condition is defined as within the policy. A condition is defined 
as;
any injury sustained during, or resulting from, a single accident or any manifestation of an 
illness having the same diagnostic classification or resulting from the same disease process 
regardless of the number of incidents or areas of your pets body affected. 
Given the above, Ive needed to decide whether, at the point Mrs B made a claim for vet 
fees, D had been suffering from something considered to be a condition for over 365 days. If 
D had  then the loss isnt covered. 
The medical issue relevant in this case, are problems in relation to Ds heart. And in 2020, I 
do think Red Sands acted reasonably by saying D was suffering from a condition. I say this 
because there had been a manifestation of an illness with the same diagnostic 
classification/disease process  the slow heart rate noticed.
Red Sands has said D was experiencing issues with her heart as early as 2018. And so the 
365 days the policy covers this condition for had elapsed in 2020. I do understand Mrs B has 
said D was a healthy dog prior to 2020, and that any changes in Ds heart rate were in 
relation to the distress of visiting the vets. But, Im satisfied Red Sands acted reasonably in 
saying the condition limit started from 2018.
Ive read the vets notes from 2018 and 2019. The notes in 2018 say Ds heart rate was at 60 
beats per minute  and its clear from what the vet wrote that this may be a sign of an 
abnormalty. I say this because the vet recorded a possible problem - potential 
bradyarrythmia. This means a slow heart rate. The vet did notice the heart rate increase 
when D went into the consultation room  but discussed the possibility getting an ECG for D 
to look into the matter. But, the vet noted that was there were no other clinical signs, Mrs B 
was happy to monitor the situation at that time. 
The vet notes in 2019 also note a lower heart rate  50 beats per minute  and again noted 
the term potential bradyarrythmia. The vet said an ECG might be required if D was 
symptomatic. 
Given the above, I do think Red Sands were acting fairly in saying D had a condition  and 
that this condition had first been noticed in 2018. In May 2020, the 365 condition limit had 
elapsed  as it would have been running from when the manifestations of this illness were 
first noted in May 2018. And because of this, Im satisfied the decline of this claim was fair. Mrs B has highlighted the information provided by the specialist that investigated the 
problems with Ds heart. And I have taken this into account when coming to my decision. Im 
satisfied it wasnt necessary to discuss the matter with the specialist  as this service has 
received evidence from them which provide their opinion. The specialist does note D wasnt 
experiencing episodic weakness until a few weeks prior. And, says Ds heart murmur was 
not linked to recent collapsing episodes.
But the report from the speciliast does also note bradycardiac issues since 2018. And this 
specialist noted the problems D was experiencing in 2020 were like to be associated with 
bradycardic/sinus pauses episodes. It was noted treated included drug therapy, and the 
treatment of choice being a pacemaker. So, whilst I appreciate the specialist is saying other 
symptoms were recent  I do think both the specialists report, and the vet notes, show there 
is a clear history of bradycardic issues, first noted in 2018. 
For the policy condition limit to apply, there just needs to be signs that the policyholder or vet 
noticed (not diagnosed or made further referrals) any manifestion of an illness related to the 
same disease process. And this was the case in May 2018, when abnormalities in Ds heart 
rate were picked up.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited, to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman