DRN-3113801
The complaint
Mr P has complained that having found alternative motor insurance he was unable to stop 
his motor insurance policy held with Hastings Insurance Services Limited trading as 
Hastings Direct (Hastings) from renewing.
What happened
Hastings wrote to Mr P on 12 February 2021. The letter explained Mr Ps policy would renew 
on 13 March 2021 and gave the cost for the renewal. The letter also explained that unless 
Mr P told Hastings otherwise the policy would auto-renew. A phone number was provided 
within the letter.
Mr P has told us he shopped around and as he found a more competitive quote elsewhere 
decided not to renew with Hastings.
Mr P went to the Hastings website and to his account, but found he was unable to stop the 
renewal. Mr P has told us that he was given two options, one was live chat, and the other 
was a telephone number. The live chat function didnt work, and he was unable to get 
through on the telephone number provided despite trying several different options on 
different occasions.
Mr P also looked at the option to email Hastings, but the advice was that Hastings would try 
to respond within three days.
Mr P found he had no other option but to fill in a complaint form in order to stop his policy 
from renewing.
Following Mr P making his complaint Hastings did stop his policy from renewing. It 
apologised for the call waiting times and explained it was working on reducing them.
Mr P has explained that his complaint wasnt just about the call waiting times, it was that he 
was prevented from stopping his policy from renewing, and unless he made his complaint 
his policy would have renewed, and the premium would have been collected from him.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ps complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr P 
disagreed so this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant tell any business to change its processes; this is the job of the regulator. Instead I will 
look at Mr Ps individual complaint and how the actions of Hastings have affected him 
directly.
When Mr P took out his policy in March 2020, he was sent his insurance documents. The 
documents stated the following:
We automatically renew most policies. This means if one of our insurers offers you a 
premium, we'll send you a renewal invitation at least 21 days before your policy's
due to end. Your new insurance cover will start on your renewal date, 13th March 2021.
If you don't want us to renew your policy, or wish to opt out of the automatic renewal 
process, please let us know before your renewal date by contacting our customer
services team.
So, I am satisfied Mr Ps policy was set to auto-renew unless Mr P contacted Hastings. This 
is common across the motor industry and I dont think Hastings acted unfairly by setting up 
Mr Ps policy in this way.
On 12 February 2021 Mr P was sent his renewal documents for his motor insurance policy 
due to renew on 13 March 2021. The documents explained the following: 
What happens next
Unless you tell us otherwise, we'll automatically renew your policy and your new cover will 
start on 13th March 2021. On this date, we'll send your new insurance documents and your 
renewal will be due for payment.
We're here to help
If you don't want to automatically renew your policy, or you'd like to discuss or change any 
details please contact us on 0333 321 9790.
I consider this to be good customer service. The letter reminds Mr P that his policy is due to 
renew and gives enough time for Mr P to shop around for an alternative. The letter also 
reminds Mr P that his policy is set to auto-renew.
Mr P has told us he attempted to stop his policy renewing online but wasnt given a simple 
option to do so. The live chat function on the site wasnt working and he was unable to get 
through on Hastings phone number.
Hastings has confirmed it has made a business decision not to allow customers to stop the 
renewal of policies online. This is to:
prevent the risk of a customers policy being cancelled or lapsed maliciously, thus reducing 
the risk of our customers driving uninsured without their knowing.
I think this explanation is reasonable, and as Ive explained above, I am unable to tell a 
business to change its processes, as this is not within my remit.
Hastings has also apologised for the trouble Mr P had attempting to get through to it on the 
phone. It has explained that at times the lines are busier but that it is working on reducing 
call waiting times. I think its reasonable that at times it takes longer to get through to 
businesses than most customers would like. But I think Hastings apology for this is fair.
Mr P went on to use the complaint form on the Hastings website to stop his policy from 
renewing. This was successful and Mr Ps policy did not renew.
Mr P has told us that had he not used the complaint form his policy would have renewed and 
Hastings would have taken money directly from him. Having thought about what My P has 
said, I agree this could have happened, but it didnt, and I dont think it would be reasonable 
of me to decide Mr Ps complaint based on a hypothetical situation.As Ive said above Hastings does not give customers the option to stop renewals online and 
I think its reasoning for this is fair. So even if the chat facility was working Mr P would still 
have had to call Hastings.
Hastings has apologised for the experience Mr P had when attempting to get through to it by 
telephone and I think this is fair.
Fortunately, Mr P did use the online complaint form which was responded to before his 
policy renewed and he was not impacted financially. So, I dont think Hastings should have 
to take any further action to resolve Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman