DRN-3846146
The complaint
Miss C and Ms A bring a complaint on behalf of Mr R, who held a personal protection policy 
with Vitality Corporate Services Limited (now Vitality Life Limited, hereafter referred to as 
Vitality). The policy was held in trust, and Miss C and Ms A are the appointed trustees. 
They say that Vitality has unfairly refused Mr Rs claim for serious illness benefit. Instead of 
paying the claim, it has voided his policy altogether for misrepresentation. 
To resolve the complaint, Miss C and Ms A want the misrepresentation to be recategorized 
as innocent, the policy to be reinstated, and for Mr Rs claim to be paid in full.  
What happened
Mr R first undertook a quote online for a VitalityHealth Personal Healthcare Plan  offering 
private healthcare cover - on 18 August 2020. That policy is not the subject of this complaint.  
On 17 September 2020, Mr R made a further application for a VitalityLife Essentials Plan, 
which was a personal protection policy. The policy contained life cover and serious illness 
(critical illness) benefit, with each benefit having a £100,000 sum assured and a 30-year 
term. It also included funeral cover, dementia and frail care cover and Vitality Plus benefits.  
After seeking the policy online, Mr R then called an in-house financial adviser the same day. 
After undergoing telephone underwriting, Mr Rs policy was approved during the call. Mr R 
made no disclosures to Vitality about health conditions and so his policy was accepted on 
standard terms. Mr R did disclose that he partook in scuba diving as a hazardous pursuit. 
On 15 March 2021, Miss C called Vitality to make a claim for serious illness benefit, because 
Mr R had sadly been diagnosed with a rare brain tumour, caused by a type of high-grade 
cancer. A separate claim was also made under the VitalityHealth policy. 
Vitality thereafter wrote out to Miss C and Mr R with forms for access to Mr Rs relevant 
medical records for his serious illness claim. In early May 2021, it received a medical report 
from Mr Rs treating specialist.  
Miss C chased the progress of the claim on five occasions that month. Vitality explained on 
each occasion that it was still processing the evidence it had received. 
On 1 June 2021, Vitality noted that it didnt have the relevant details for Ms A, so it asked 
Miss C to obtain co-signed claim paperwork. 
On 10 June 2021, Vitality told Miss C that it was seeking further information from Mr Rs GP, 
as a result of the information it had received from the treating specialist. Vitalitys third-party 
claim assessor wrote out to the GP on 14 June 2021. It asked for specific information 
relating to the symptoms Mr R had suffered in connection with his brain tumour.  
Miss C chased Vitality a further two times. Vitality explained its claim handler had written to 
the GP, and it sent Miss C and Mr R a copy of the letter that had been issued. 
In late June 2021, July 2021, and August 2021, Vitalitys claim handler called the GP for an 
update  but the report was awaited. On 6 August 2021, Vitality wrote to Mr R to explain that 
the report was outstanding, and he would be updated once it received a reply.  
On 17 August 2021, some information was returned from the GP. On 19 August 2021, 
Vitality notified Mr R of the same. It explained its claim assessors would now be required to 
review the information.   
On 16 September 2021, Vitality called Mr R to discuss the claim. The call handler noted that 
the GP information showed Mr R had contacted his GP on 13 August 2020 with an issue of 
being frozen/stuck which had caused him a momentarily inability to move and was 
presumed to be a seizure. On 18 August 2020, Mr Rs GP referred him for blood tests.  
Mr R explained that he hadnt heard anything back from the GP after the blood tests. Since 
they were normal, he forgot about them when completing his protection policy application the 
following month. He also said he hadnt had any symptoms before 10 August 2020.  
On 29 September 2021, Vitality refused the claim. It said it was clear from the information it 
received that when Mr R applied for his policy on 17 September 2020, he did not make full 
and accurate disclosures regarding his medical history.
It said Mr R was asked two questions regarding any condition in the last five years where he 
had required investigations (such as blood tests) or had to see medical professionals about 
the condition more than once. It felt both of those questions were wrongly answered, based 
on two medical records of 13 and 18 August 2020 where Mr R had reported a specific 
neurological symptom relating to freezing and/or momentary seizures. 
It told Mr R that there was not sufficient care shown when answering the application form 
questions. It felt time was not taken to check the answers provided to VitalityLife when the 
confirmation schedule was sent out to him. The policy was therefore cancelled from 
inception and Mr Rs serious illness claim couldnt be processed. Vitality told Mr R it would 
return his policy premiums. 
In October 2021, Miss C called Vitality and applied for cover  using Mr Rs medical 
circumstances. Miss C was offered cover, with a policy exclusion for any form of diving.  
Later that month, Miss C and Mr R appealed the decision to refuse the claim and void Mr Rs 
cover. They said Mr R had acted innocently. Miss C sent Vitality many pages of appeal 
submissions. Within the appeal, she explained that:
industry guidance required Vitality to understand the reasons for any alleged 
misrepresentation;
despite this, Vitality hadnt listened to Mr Rs explanation;
he didnt disclose having blood tests because he forgot about them;
they were of relative insignificance because:
ohe was reassured that it was routine;
othey were normal, as he hadnt heard otherwise;
ohe was not told of any other investigations;
ohe was not told to monitor his health going forwards;
ohe was told he was in good health;
his medical notes explicitly said that a referral wasnt needed;
it is only with hindsight that the GP said how a neurology referral was one possible 
route;
this was a one-off incident;Mr R feels he should be treated at worse as if he had undertaken minor 
carelessness;
a call was placed to him in September 2021, despite Mr R having expressly required 
all correspondence to be undertaken via Miss C;
Vitality therefore failed in its duty of care to Mr R;
Mr R was asked to recall conversations from a year prior;
however, his life had changed considerably since discovering his brain tumour;
he did not feel that he had a chance to provide a full and reflective response to the 
questions put to him about the blood tests;
he found the call and the questions very confusing, as his mental and physical 
resilience was low due to ongoing treatment;
he did not see medical professionals more than once  and he does not accept he 
misrepresented himself in relation to a question about repeat visits;
he only saw a GP in person once  the other appointment was a triage telephone call 
because the coronavirus pandemic had since begun and this meant GP surgeries 
were not conducting in-person appointments;
Vitality said it would have declined to cover Mr R if he had disclosed neurological 
symptoms  but he did not know he had any such symptoms;
the GP has since confirmed that Mr R would not have known of the term 
neurological as this wasnt discussed with Mr R;
accordingly, he was not referred for any neurological investigations at that time;
the GP surgery has confirmed it was normal medical practice to record possible 
hypotheses in a patients medical notes but not always share them with patients at 
the time, so as not to overwhelm or alarm them unnecessarily;
that is what happened in Mr Rs case;
he understood that the checks the GP undertook showed him to be in good health;
both Miss C and another friend (Miss R) have undertaken identical applications for 
cover to Vitality  using nearly identical facts to Mr Rs circumstances, including the 
same career, age, medical history, location and hobbies as he declared on his 
application;
they were offered cover with no exclusions or premium rating relating to the 
symptoms, appointments and blood tests in question;
Mr R laid out unequivocal evidence showing reasonable innocence when omitting the 
blood test information and no omission in relation to the number of appointments he 
attended with the GP;
industry guidance requires that Vitality should pay the claim in full, where cover could 
have been offered, without rating;
they believe Mr Rs policy should be reinstituted, a claim should be considered and 
thereafter paid in full.  
On 2 November 2021, Vitality refused the appeal. It wrote to Mr R about claims under both 
the VitalityHealth and the VitalityLife policies. In respect of the latter, it said:
it hadnt ever received had full access to Mr Rs medical records direct from the GP;
however, it had sight of the telephone and face to face appointments of 13 and 18 
August 2020, as well as the further December 2020 appointment which led to Mr Rs 
neurology referral;
it remained of the view that Mr R had given incorrect information when he applied for 
his policy;
when it had written to him about the VitalityLife claim refusal in September 2021, its 
conclusion was of careless misrepresentation;however, when combined with the actions in relation to the VitalityHealth policy, it felt 
overall that Mr R had acted deliberately  that application was made the same day as 
the GP appointment of 18 August 2020 and it was underwritten from the point of sale;
Mr Rs policy contained plan provisions which entitled Vitality to cancel the cover if Mr 
R made any untrue statements;
Mr R had received £4,785.74 in claim payments under the VitalityHealth policy; 
Vitality would not seek to recover these funds, though it was entitled to do so. 
On 15 January 2022, Mr R made another appeal, with Miss Cs assistance. They supplied 
another letter of extensive written submissions. In summary, they said:
it was unclear to them whether their previous appeal was formally declined or not;
they were appealing on four grounds:
1. they wanted the serious illness policy claim to be treated as separate from the 
private health policy;
2. they maintain that any misrepresentation would not have produced a different 
underwriting decision;
3. the remedy applied was unfair and disproportionate when looking at industry 
guidance from the Association of British Insurers (ABI); and
4. the misrepresentation was not deliberate or reckless;    
they felt that using information gathered from the earlier private medical insurance 
application breached Financial Conduct Authority guidelines;
ABI guidance on misrepresentation said that the deliberate or reckless category does 
not apply where the degree of relevance associated with the misrepresentation is 
relatively low;
they submit that that full disclosure would not have adversely impacted or changed 
the underwriting of Mr Rs cover, and so, a proportionate remedy would be to pay the 
claim in full;
this has to be the case, because of the two applications made by Miss C and Miss R;
rather than seek to understand Mr Rs reasons and motivations, Vitality has jumped 
to conclusions and used vague circumstantial evidence to make an inaccurate 
conclusion of deliberate misrepresentation;
Mr R left the GP appointment of 18 August 2020 feeling reassured that he was in 
good health;
he understood that if a GP suspected he had any serious problems, the GP would 
make immediate referrals, ask him to book a follow-up consultation or ask him to 
keep an eye on specific symptoms;
instead, he understood that he was fine;
he only sought to review his private medical insurance that same day because he 
had discussed finding out whether he had private cover with the GP;
he learned from his former partner that he was no longer covered by her employers 
group private healthcare scheme, which was why he then applied for the 
VItalityHealth policy;
nonetheless, this was separate to the claim under the serious illness policy  which 
Mr R remained of the view ought to be reinstated, so a full claim could be paid.    
At the same time, Miss C brought Mr Rs complaint to this service. Miss C made detailed 
submissions on his behalf, noting that:
they felt Vitality had unfairly benefitted from sharing information across both the 
private health insurance and the protection policy application forms;
Mr Rs GP had ceased all investigations before he applied for the critical illness 
policy;they believe Vitality would have insured Mr R knowing his full medical history  so it 
shouldnt be allowed to refuse a claim now;
they were yet to receive a final outcome to the complaint;
they feel Vitality has breached regulatory standards by changing its view on the 
misrepresentation and conducting an unfair process with the claim outcome and 
appeal;
even if Mr R had acted carelessly, this would be the most severe sanction which 
could apply  and so he would be covered in order to have a proportionate claim paid 
now;
Vitality has not acted in accordance with the requirements of the ABI guidance;
Mr R is now worried about applying for insurance and other financial products, 
because Vitalitys unfair decision will have an impact on seeking future cover;
he also believes that having been found to have misrepresented has a wider impact 
on his life, such as when making declarations to potential employers;
this has worsened his mental health concerns, including depression and anxiety;
Mr R never sought to commit fraud, undermine Vitality or act unfairly in any way;
he sought his cover in good faith for the event he may become unwell;
Vitalitys long, bullying letters have made Mr R feel hopeless;
despite offering a valid explanation for his actions, Vitality has disregarded Mr R;
Mr R was self-employed before he became unwell, working for some 15 years in the 
construction industry;
this required use of a vehicle but he now cannot drive for at least two years;
his ongoing cancer treatment renders him too unwell to work, and he has no steady 
income;
the cover was designed to protect him in the scenario he finds himself in but Vitality 
has taken that option away from him.  
Vitality treated Mr Rs second appeal as a complaint. It sent Mr R a number of updates 
before producing a final response to the complaint dated 3 May 2022. 
However, Vitality then decided to retract its complaint response, as it still did not have sight 
of Mr Rs complete medical records. Whilst it had not wanted to delay a claim outcome 
further, it did not believe it could fairly produce a final complaint response without all of the 
relevant evidence  and its assessor should not have issued the complaint outcome. Vitality 
also noted that because eight weeks had passed, the complaint could be reviewed at this 
service without a final response letter being required anyway. 
Vitality wrote to Mr R, withdrawing its letter and reiterating its position on his claim in the 
previous letter it sent him in November 2021.  
Vitality then made further submissions to this service, noting how:
its view remains that there was a misrepresentation on the policy application, and this 
should be classed as deliberate;
it had previously told Mr R in the letter of 29 September 2021 that the 
misrepresentation was careless  however, it had explained by November 2021 why 
it decided to reclassify the matter as something more serious, 
the medical records it has seen show how Mr R consulted his GP on 13 August 
2020;
later correspondence with a Consultant Neurologist in February 2021 reflects back 
on this period and confirmed Mr R had recalled intermittent focal seizures;
during the treating customers fairly call of 16 September 2021, Mr R confirmed to its 
claim assessor that his symptoms had started around 10 August 2020;despite this, Mr R answered no to all of the medical questions on his policy 
application;
the only disclosure he made related to diving as a hazardous activity;
he should have answered three policy application questions differently;
had he done so, his application would have been postponed and then declined, 
because of the unresolved neurological issues awaiting a specialist referral;
his blood test results were also abnormal;
it notes that Mr Rs GP has added retrospective amendments to his medical records 
dated 3 August 2021  but these do not alter its view on the claim or the outcome;
Vitality could never have insured Mr R if it had known accurate information about his 
medical circumstances  and so it was right to decline the claim and void the policy.   
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint. He concluded that Vitality had 
acted fairly in the circumstances, and he did not think it should be required to do anything 
further.  
The investigator identified five questions answered negatively by Mr R in the policy 
application which were relevant to his medical records from the time. Of these questions, he 
thought four of them ought to have been answered positively. 
Vitality had shown that if Mr R had given different answers, that it couldnt have offered to 
insure Mr R. Our investigator believed that Vitality had refunded the policy premiums  so it 
couldnt have done anything further to put matters right in the circumstances.  
Finally, he noted that Miss C had sought cover from Vitality as if she were Mr R. But Miss C 
hadnt given correct answers about Mr Rs blood tests  so her submissions about Vitalitys 
decision to offer cover were not something that the investigator placed any reliance on.  
 
Miss C said Mr R did not accept the investigators view on the complaint. She said they 
wished to appeal that view, and they wanted the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
She also made further written submissions on Mr Rs behalf. I have read these in full, though 
I shant be setting them out verbatim here. In summary, Miss C said:
there was no misrepresentation to the fifth question (concerning Mr R waiting for the 
results of any tests or investigations or experiencing symptoms that he was likely to 
seek medical advice or treatment for);
nor was there misrepresentation to the third question concerning blood tests;
though the ESR and ferritin were mildly raised, the GP has now provided a letter 
explaining how this was not followed up;
it was presumed to be a viral infection;
the GP has also since confirmed that Mr R would have deemed his result to be 
normal;
they have also sought a second opinion from an independent GP;
he also confirmed that Mr Rs abnormal blood results were within the range 
consistent with a viral infection;
he also agreed that neither result would nor should have triggered further 
investigation;
these blood results could have indicated any infection, such as the common cold;
this would not be relevant to an underwriter, and they disagree that Vitality should be 
allowed to place reliance on the results;
it is unfair to suggest that Mr R should have known his results were abnormal;
they have no bearing or relevance on his subsequent cancer diagnosis;the Financial Ombudsman Service may wish to seek further expert evidence 
regarding the blood tests and Mr R would be happy to undergo any further review;
when making her own application, Miss C answered that the blood tests were normal 
when applying for cover, because they were;
it is unreasonable for Vitality to expect a customer to go beyond the assumption he 
was asked to take by the GP surgerys normal practice of presuming blood test 
results are normal unless informed otherwise;
they remain of the view that Mr R cannot be seen as having misrepresented his 
answers to the question about blood tests;
Mr R has not misrepresented in relation to the fourth question (regarding seeing a 
GP more than once)  and they agree with our investigator about that.  
Vitality asked our investigator for confirmation as to whether complaints were being made 
about both the VitalityHealth Personal Healthcare policy and the VitalityLife Essentials 
policy. 
Our investigator explained that this complaint related solely to the second protection policy 
(VitalityLife Essentials), not the VitalityHealth private healthcare policy since Mr R did not 
wish to pursue that complaint for now. 
The complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their considerable patience whilst this matter awaited an 
ombudsmans decision. This complaint has a substantial volume of correspondence, which 
consequentially impacts the time taken to undertake a complete review. 
I know that this process has been upsetting for Mr R and I do appreciate that Miss C has 
explained how poorly he has been. I do not intend to make matters worse for him, but I wont 
be addressing every individual submission Mr R has made or giving my view on each 
incident within the extensive timeline of this complaint. I am not required to comment on 
each point or make specific determinations on every submission put forward by the parties. 
However, I can assure Mr R that I have reviewed all of the evidence on file. To that end, Ive 
included a detailed chronology of the complaint in the background to my decision. 
We are not a court, and though there are rules I may rely on in respect of complaint handling 
procedures, I do not deem it necessary to seek further expert evidence, such as the 
independent GP assessment that Miss C has asked us to consider. It is not our function to 
reassess this claim; my role is to decide if Vitality has acted fairly in all of the circumstances. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service provides informal dispute resolution. My remit is to make 
findings on what I believe to be fair and reasonable to both parties in the circumstances and 
this does not follow a prescribed format. Instead, I will set out my reasons for my findings on 
what I consider are the central issues in this complaint, based on the evidence before me. 
Though I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr R, I am also of the view that this 
complaint should not be upheld. Ill explain my reasons for reaching that view below.  
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. If the circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may have 
occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at that 
time. Though I know Mr R and those advocating for him have suggested otherwise, that is 
what Vitality has done. 
Mr R was sadly diagnosed with his type of cancer just a matter of months after his policy 
application  which had given no record of any medical disclosures. After seeking targeted 
information about Mr Rs brain tumour, it became necessary for Vitality to compare Mr Rs 
medical records up to the time of the application in relation to any symptoms of his condition 
 as it was noted that he had been suffering from symptoms of freezing every two weeks or 
so  and this was around October 2020. 
In addition, a letter dated 10 February 2021 from Mr Rs consultant neurologist, Dr S, said 
how for the past year and a half, he has been having these brief episodes consistent with 
focal seizures. He would get a brief warning that something was going to happen. During the 
episode, he is unable to speak but can still walk but will often try to go somewhere and sit 
alone until the episode finishes. These were happening once every two weeks.
And so, I believe that, in these particular circumstances, an information request sufficiently 
targeted to establishing a picture of Mr Rs health in the period preceding his policy 
application relating to his history of neurological symptoms was proportionate and fair, as the 
symptoms Mr R suffered appeared to be proximate to, or pre-date, his policy application.  
Vitality thereafter concluded that the following two policy application questions were wrongly 
answered by Mr R in September 2020 (with relevant points marked in bold):
Apart from anything you've already told us about, in the last 5 years have you:
1. Been advised to have or undergone any medical investigation such as blood 
tests, x-rays, urine tests, scans, exploratory surgery, biopsies / tissue sampling 
or internal camera investigation?
2.Seen or been asked to see any medical professionals more than once in 
connection with the same medical condition?
Since the complaint came to this service, Vitality has also contended that an additional three 
questions were wrongly answered. These are:
Have you ever been diagnosed with or experienced any of the following:
3. Multiple sclerosis, optic neuritis, paralysis, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, 
cerebral palsy, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease or dementia?
4.Numbness, tremor, tingling, pins and needles, fits, memory loss?; and 
Are you currently waiting for the results of any tests / investigations or experiencing 
symptoms that you are likely to seek medical advice or treatment for? 
Mr R answered no to all five questions. 
I am conscious that in its claim refusal letter to Mr R, Vitality only referenced the first two 
questions. I dont believe it is necessary for me to look at these additional questions. That is 
since I am of the view that there was a misrepresentation on the first question  and 
therefore something different ought to have happened in the circumstances anyway.  
Turning to question two, I agree with our investigator that I do not find Mr R to have 
misrepresented when answering it negatively. Though Mr R underwent a call with the GP on 13 August 2020, it was clearly recorded by that GP as a triage call and that Mr R would be 
seen the following week by another GP, Dr P.  A note was made with reference to partial 
seizures being suspected, but no assessment was conducted at that time.  
In my view, Mr R wasnt asked to see Dr P or any other GP more than once. He was 
provisionally consulted during a period where the GP surgery was operating under pandemic 
protocols  and the triage GP felt it necessary that Mr R attend the surgery. I dont believe a 
fair and objective interpretation of that question should have led Mr R to answer yes.  
However, I disagree with Miss C and Mr R that the first question was rightly answered. Most 
of the submissions about the blood tests made by Miss C relate to the fact that they were not 
followed up by the GP. However, I believe that the relevant consideration is that the tests 
took place based on Mr Rs reported symptoms, and these should have been disclosed.  
The medical record of 18 August 2020 says:
History symptoms as per triage 
[patient reported feeling stuck/frozen with momentary inability to move 
on and off 
partial seizures suspected but has not communicated this to patient]
Examination normal power both upper limbs 
normal cranial nerve exam
Comment to check bloods in first instance then consider neurology referral
will find out if he still has private insurance
Full blood tests were undertaken that same day. Three tests - erythrocyte sedimentation rate 
(ESR), bone profile and ferritin - returned readings outside of normal reference ranges.
I accept that nothing else was done by the GP for Mr R. No other entries were recorded until 
his symptoms had worsened by December 2020, which then led to his neurology referral.  
But I have to consider what the question required. It asked whether Mr R had undergone any 
blood test, not whether hed had a blood test with an abnormal result or a blood test that the 
GP hadnt ever replied to him about. 
Vitality needed to know about the blood tests, and why they were carried out. If Mr R had 
answered yes to that question and confirmed that they took place, further questions would 
have been put to him, as subset questions. 
When Miss C made her own mock application, she answered the subset questions. I have 
noted her answers in brackets below. The questions were:
1. Are you still waiting for an appointment or for the results of this blood test? [no]
2. Was this test carried out as part of usual pregnancy checks, or for a well person 
check-up? [no]
3. Was it required in relation to a condition already mentioned in your application? 
[no]
4. Was the result normal? [yes]
5. Have you made a full recovery with no ongoing symptoms? [yes]
6. Have you been discharged from follow up with no further treatment, tests or 
appointments required? [yes]I do not agree that Miss Cs answers were accurate as to Mr Rs correct position in 
September 2020. Though I accept that Mr R has a valid explanation for the fact no further 
action was taken by the GP, he hadnt heard further as to the results of his tests, the results 
werent normal, and Mr R continued to exhibit symptoms periodically up to December 2020 
(though Miss C says these stopped in September and only resumed from October 2020). 
Two further comments have since been made by the GP. On the medical records, he has 
included an addendum at Miss C and Mr Rs request, which says:
Written in retrospect on 3/8/21
Based on the history and examination I didn't feel an immediate referral to
secondary care was warranted. It was discussed with the patient that blood tests
would be organised to exclude any treatable causes of the symptoms before
deciding on further referral. It may not have been made clear to the patient at the
time that a neurology referral was one possible route. The patient then told me he
would find out, in the event of a referral, if he still had private insurance in place and
let us know.; and
11 May 2022
Mr [R] has asked me to write a report on the findings of the blood tests in August 
2020.
I have gone through the notes and can confirm that, at that time of analysing the 
blood tests, my opinion was on a 41 year old gentleman with a raised ferritin and 
mildly elevated ESR  the most probably [sic] diagnosis was a viral infection; as 
such, this was not followed up. At the time the bloods were requested, Mr [R] was not 
aware of any abnormality until we saw him in December 2020, when he presented 
with focal arm spasms for which we referred him urgently to the neurologist.
We tell our patients that if they are not contacted about there [sic] blood results they 
can assume no further investigation is required. Therefore it is my belief that Mr [R] 
would have deemed his result to be normal with no follow up required when he 
approached us in August 2020.
I accept that Mr Rs GP may have its own way of operating; and the GP now says Mr R 
would have been left to assume that everything was fine. But that does not mean that the 
question Mr R was asked about his blood tests should be answered based on what the GP 
would or wouldnt do. Mr R had to answer it based on the facts as they applied to himself. 
I must be fair to both parties, and the duty on an applicant is to answer a question to the best 
of their knowledge or belief, providing it is neither unclear nor ambiguous. Mr R was asked if 
he had undergone blood tests  and he had. He was then asked subset questions about his 
results, which he had not received. If he had told Vitality the answers to the best of his 
knowledge, he should have informed Vitality that he did not know the results and he did not 
know if they were normal, but that he presumed so - because he hadnt heard further.  
Miss Cs 2021 policy application was accepted by Vitality on standard terms because she did 
not make that distinction above, when asked subset blood test questions. Mr R needed to 
answer differently. It was not for Mr R to determine whether the information given was 
relevant to Vitality or not  he merely had to answer the questions put to him correctly, to the 
best of his knowledge and understanding. And I believe he knew, or should reasonably have 
known, that he had undergone blood tests and he hadnt been told of any results. I therefore believe there was a misrepresentation. Under relevant law (applying from 2013 
and so at the time Mr R sought his cover), on consumer disclosures, an insurer only has a 
remedy against a consumer for a misrepresentation made by that person before a consumer 
insurance contract was entered into for qualifying misrepresentations. 
That applies if (a) the consumer made the misrepresentation in breach of the duty to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation; and b) if the insurer shows that without 
the misrepresentation, it would have entered into the contract on different terms. A qualifying 
misrepresentation must be classed as either deliberate/reckless or otherwise careless. 
Any deliberate or reckless misrepresentation will result in the voiding of an insurance policy, 
with or without the return of premiums. 
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer must consider a proportionate remedy. 
This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have been 
had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been offered 
under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to reflect this. 
Otherwise, if it wouldnt have been able to offer cover at all, it can void the policy.
In my view, Mr Rs actions fall within the careless category. I believe he made a mistake or 
error resulting from a lack of care. Careless misrepresentation is set out as anything from an 
understandable oversight, or an inadvertent mistake, to serious negligence. I believe Mr Rs 
failure to answer the first question positively sits towards the upper limit of that band, 
because the blood tests and symptoms leading to the GP appointment took place just a few 
weeks before the application.  
A correct disclosure under the blood test subset questions would have resulted in the
application being referred for manual underwriting by Vitality. It has shown how a GP report 
would have been requested. On receipt of the medical evidence which it now has received, 
the application postponed as there were abnormal blood test results (no matter the level of 
reference range) and no explanation for the neurological symptoms experienced by Mr R. 
Vitality has shown us underwriting manual evidence which confirms it cannot accept an 
application for suspected neurological seizures of unknown origin such as Mr Rs, without 
confirmed investigations to rule out both brain tumours and intracranial vascular lesions. 
So, Vitality hasnt had the opportunity to underwrite the policy as it would have if it had 
known the full facts of Mr Rs medical circumstances. It is therefore fair and in accordance 
with the relevant law, guidance, and the policy terms for Vitality to apply the correct medical 
underwriting now. That means I cant ask it to pay Mr Rs claim, because Vitality would not 
have been in a position to provide him with any serious illness benefit in 2020, or any other 
benefits at all.
Vitality told Mr R it would return the premiums he has paid. I havent seen evidence of this 
payment itself, but it is expected to do so in the event of careless misrepresentation. If 
required, Mr R remains free to pursue a complaint about that matter, if the premiums have 
not been returned to him as Vitality previously indicated. 
Looking at the application, I do not believe Vitality has shown sufficient evidence that Mr R 
acted deliberately. I note the Code requires that it is for the insurer to show that a qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless  and I do not believe that test has been met. 
The Code says that, under notes on misrepresentation that is deliberate or reckless that 
the overall principle is that the remedy of avoiding a policy from the outset should be 
confined to the most serious cases of misrepresentation. Further, the Code goes on to clarify how this category does not apply where  (7.3.1) Having investigated the matter, the 
customer has a credible explanation supported by the facts for the misrepresentation having 
occurred and/or there are other credible mitigating circumstances.
I realise that Mr Rs VitalityHealth private medical policy was sought the same day as the GP 
appointment. But thats not relevant here; this decision only concerns the VitalityLife policy. 
And Vitality has confirmed it has not conflated the two claims and they are separate matters. 
The GP record from 18 August 2020 expressly notes how Mr R would seek confirmation if 
he still had private healthcare or not (which he did not, as he had since been removed from 
Miss Cs employment cover). I believe that was the reason why Mr R then went on to apply 
for the VitalityHealth policy  because he was informed that his former cover had ended. 
The VitalityLife cover was sought a month after the GP appointment in question, following a 
call to Mr R from a broker about appropriate protection needs. And while I do remain of the 
view that Mr R didnt answer an application question correctly, I do not believe it can be said 
that the definition of deliberate or reckless misrepresentation was met  that being, in the 
circumstances, on the balance of probabilities, the customer knew, or must have known, 
that the information given was both incorrect and relevant to the insurer, or the customer 
acted without any care as to whether it was either correct or relevant to the insurer. 
I believe on balance that Mr R answered wrongly because the GP had told him that he 
wouldnt hear anything further unless additional investigations were needed. He therefore 
presumed matters were normal. I dont believe Mr R knew that his answers were both 
incorrect and relevant. Put simply, Mr R had no idea what the results were. 
However, Vitality could not seek to underwrite Mr R based on an assumption of normal 
results  it had to know why he consulted the GP, what the GP had done, and what the 
actual results were; this was relevant to its decision to insure him. That is something Vitality 
is fairly entitled to determine, so it can decide whether it will accept an insurance application. 
I also know Miss C has referred to innocent misrepresentation, and specifically how she 
feels this best describes Mr Rs actions. I recognise that guidance on misrepresentation 
issued by the ABI Code of Practice on Misrepresentation provides categorisation for three 
outcomes - innocent, careless and deliberate or reckless. The Code explains how innocent 
misrepresentation will be based on one of three typical circumstances, that the question was 
unclear, it did not apply to the facts in question, or it was reasonable for the customer to 
have overlooked it  such as a childhood ailment.  
But the relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts (which came into force 
before Mr R sought his insurance) does not include an innocent category. What the law 
requires is determination of whether there has been a qualifying misrepresentation  
meaning the consumer has made a misrepresentation and it would have affected the terms 
an insurer offered. I give greater weight to the application of the law in these circumstances. 
As Ive explained, I believe Mr R did make a misrepresentation - my view is that he should 
have answered the first of the above questions differently. And, in any event, I dont believe 
that innocent misrepresentation applies here. The question was not ambiguous, it was 
relevant to the facts of Mr Rs tests, and whilst these werent given any significance in terms 
of the diagnosis Mr R received in 2021, I cant agree that it was reasonable to overlook them 
in the circumstances of a clear question which specifically for information about them. 
If Mr R had replied correctly, Vitality would have postponed his cover and sought a GP 
report. Upon discovering his symptoms, it couldnt have insured him  and the underwriting 
guidance I have seen confirms as such. By October 2020 at the latest, Mr Rs intermittent 
seizures had resumed  the GP confirmed in his 30 December 2020 letter to the neurology department that these (petit mal) seizures had been ongoing since that date. Vitality would 
have awaited the outcome of any investigation into the seizures, but they ultimately led to Mr 
Rs diagnosis. I am therefore satisfied that Vitality could not have insured him at any time, 
with the correct medical evidence before it. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr Rs position, I cannot uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask The Mr R Trust to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman