DRN-2860825
The complaint
Mr H and Mr H are unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK Plc handled their re-mortgage 
application. 
Mr H and Mr H have said Barclays poor handling of the application has cost them financially 
as they found themselves having to remain with their existing lender for longer and their 
mortgage interest rate reverted to the standard variable rate. 
Mr H and Mr H are seeking compensation for having to pay higher mortgage payments for 
two months due to the delay in re-mortgaging to Barclays. 
What happened
Mr H and Mr H used a broker to handle their re-mortgage application. 
The re-mortgage application was submitted to Barclays on 7 September 2020. The 
mortgage requested was £173,173 over 28 years on a repayment basis. A fixed interest rate 
of 1.84% was selected for five years. And the estimated value of the property was £235,000. 
Under the section of the form titled Solicitor Details it confirmed that free legals were being 
taken and that the solicitor was Solicitor E. 
Initial checks were carried out and a property survey was instructed. Unfortunately on 22 
September 2020 the property valuation came back lower than expected at £215,000. 
Barclays underwriters noted this affected the loan to value (LTV) and that as the mortgage 
product selected was dependent on a 75% LTV this meant the loan amount would need to 
be reduced to remain eligible for the same mortgage product. It was also noted the amount 
of borrowing exceeded the 80% LTV threshold (I assume for the overall lending purposes).
  
The broker was notified of this the same day  22 September 2020  by email and the 
records suggest contact with the broker was also attempted on 29 September 2020. As well 
as this, Barclays provided a copy of an email sent to the broker on 6 October 2020 
reminding the broker they still needed to adjust the borrowing in order to proceed with the 
application. 
Barclays records next show movement on this application on 19 October 2020 following 
receipt of a Mortgage Application Change Form (PCV) from the broker, which was dated 14 
October 2020. 
On the file there are two versions of the form dated 14 October 2020. Both versions tick the 
box on the form to say there is only a change to the Lending Proposition (and not the third-
party/ solicitor details). 
One form notes the borrowing is to go from £173,173 to £171,321 and requests that the 
third-party information be changed from Barclays panel solicitors to ONP Solicitors. ONP 
Solicitors phone number and email address are provided, with no panel number. 
The second version of the form notes the borrowing is to go from £171,321 to £171,321 and 
provides ONP Solicitors phone number, email address and address  no panel number is 
provided. 
The new loan amount of £171,321 took the LTV to 79.68% and a new mortgage product was 
selected  a two-year fixed interest rate of 1.99% with £250 cashback, with the reason for 
the change noted as Down Valuation. 
Barclays submissions show there was some contact with the broker on 22 October 2020 
(Barclays say this was when they referred the PCV form back to the broker to amend the 
loan amount). During a webchat with the broker on 29 October 2020 it was suggested that 
the PCV form had now been accepted. But Barclays then required some additional 
information to complete their assessment of the application. Following receipt of the 
information requested, Barclays issued a mortgage offer on 11 November 2020 and this 
started the reflection period. However, the offer was sent to Solicitor E, rather than ONP 
Solicitors. 
The broker says the error with the solicitors was not realised until 2-3 weeks after the offer 
had been issued. The broker says it was only after liaising with Mr H and Mr H and the 
solicitors that it was noted there was a problem. Mr H and Mr H have said they think the 
error was realised around 25 November 2020  although I note theyve said in the 
submissions they are not exactly sure of the dates of when things happened. 
A new PCV form was submitted to Barclays. The form was dated 23 November 2020 (I note 
this was a different style of form to the previous PCV form). In the submissions there are two 
different forms both dated 23 November 2020. One includes the incorrect spelling of ONP 
Solicitors and does not include the solicitors panel number. And the second form corrects 
the spelling for ONP Solicitors and includes the panel number. 
On 2 December 2020 Barclays records refer to a communication with the broker in which it 
is noted a form was uploaded on 29 November 2020 to amend the solicitors details - but 
Barclays couldnt find the solicitors with the information available. A duplicate PCV form 
including the solicitors panel number was then received by Barclays and the offer was then 
updated and issued on 4 December 2020. 
Following this it appears Mr H and Mr Hs solicitors then required the offer to be amended as 
a middle name was missing. The initial application form and PCV forms up to this point did 
not include any middle names. So another PCV form was submitted to address this issue  
this form is dated 21 December 2020. The details were updated and the amended offer was 
issued on 29 December 2020. Mr H and Mr H completed on 15 January 2021. 
Mr H and Mr H complained to Barclays about what had happened, but Barclays didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong in the circumstances. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, they found that Barclays had acted 
within their timescales for processing the application and had relied on information theyd 
been given. The investigator also explained Barclays were entitled to request information 
they needed to assess the application. And the investigator noted Mr H and Mr Hs concerns 
about Barclays complaint handling, but explained this wasnt something that our service had 
the power to look into. 
Mr H and Mr H disagreed. They accepted that part of the earlier delay in the process had 
been due to them looking elsewhere for other potential mortgages. And they also accepted 
that the issue with updating one of the names on the mortgage offer later on was dealt with 
quickly and so they were not concerned with this. Mr H and Mr H said they were unhappy that information provided about the new solicitor on 14 October 2020 was not actioned and 
this then didnt come to light until 25 November 2020 when they notified their broker that 
theyd completed forms for Solicitor E as theyd understood this to be part of the process. 
Mr H and Mr H said a form to correct the solicitors details was completed on 25 November 
2020 and while their adviser had mis-spelt ONP Solicitors, there were enough details on the 
form to have located the solicitors firm. Mr H and Mr H felt the issues were with Barclays 
processes and not being able to action small changes efficiently. 
Our investigator explained our service does not have the power to ask a business to change 
their policies or procedures. And that while they noted Mr H and Mr Hs concerns that 
common sense shouldve applied, the investigator felt Barclays had not acted unreasonably 
as they had acted on information theyd been given and it was reasonable to ask for correct 
information. 
As Mr H and Mr H still didnt accept the investigators conclusions, the complaint has come 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the outcome and conclusions reached by our 
investigator. And based on the available submissions Ive not seen enough to say that 
Barclays caused any undue delays. 
Mr H and Mr H accept the initial delay in the application process was due to them re-visiting 
the mortgage market after the down-valuation of the property. So its unfair to attribute any 
delay in late September and early October 2020 to Barclays. 
The down valuation of the property required amendments to be made to the application 
which led to the first PCV form dated 14 October 2020. Barclays reviewed the form on 19 
October 2020, but it appears the initial form needed to be resent before Barclays could 
assess the case further. On receipt of the revised form, Barclays requested some additional 
evidence to support the application and once this was all received (around 4 November 
2020) this was actioned and an offer was issued on 11 November 2020. 
Mr H and Mr H have referred to the delay incurred due to the wrong solicitor being sent the 
offer of 11 November 2020 and this not being addressed until 25 November 2020. 
The original application form requested that free legals were to be used to carry out the 
conveyancing for the new mortgage. And while Im aware that new solicitor details were 
provided in the forms dated 14 October 2020, the information wasnt complete nor 
highlighted as a change. 
That said, the offer was sent out on 11 November 2020 and unusually, given the apparent 
urgency of this application, it doesnt appear any of the parties involved, including Mr H and 
Mr H, the broker or ONP Solicitors, realised the solicitor details were not correct until  it 
would seem  23 November 2020 when the revised PCV form was completed and dated. 
This is seven working days after the offer was issued. 
Barclays notes record the revised form was reviewed on 25 November 2020. And as noted 
earlier, there was a short delay as Barclays were unable to find the solicitors and an 
amended form was requested. Given a new offer was issued on 4 December 2020 I dont think there were any excessive delays here in Barclays handling of the amendment to the 
solicitors details. 
What followed was the name change on the offer at the request of Mr H and Mr Hs solicitor. 
The form dated 21 December 2020 was actioned and Barclays confirmed identification with 
the final offer being issued before the end of the year. Mr H and Mr H have no issues with 
what happened here, and I also have not seen anything to suggest undue delays took place 
at this point in the process  particularly given the time of year. 
Barclays confirmed that five days to deal with incoming information is a typical and expected 
turnaround time, but when they are busy sometimes things can take a little longer. In the 
circumstances of this case its difficult for me to say Barclays is in error here and overall, Ive 
not seen any excessive delays. 
I understand Mr H and Mr Hs frustrations with Barclays processes and that they believe by 
being pragmatic things could have been dealt with more quickly. However, as our 
investigator explained, our service is unable to interfere with Barclays processes and on 
balance it appears Barclays generally dealt with things within their self-imposed timescales  
so I cant say overall that theyve acted unreasonably here.  
Im also mindful that it appears some of the information provided to Barclays was at times 
incomplete and I dont think it was unreasonable to request clarification of the information 
required. Similarly, I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to request additional 
information during the course of the application to assure themselves of their decision to 
lend to Mr H and Mr H. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman