DRN-3330527
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was mis-sold a Silver Account (SA) in 2017 by TSB Bank plc (TSB).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says he has never used the benefits of his SA, so he wants his fees refunded.
TSB says that Mr W took the SA out online without any advice from its staff, and he chose to 
do so based on the information given in the online process.
Mr W had a fee free account before taking out the SA, so I think its more likely than not he 
knew these were available. 
Both parties agree Mr W followed the TSB online process without any input from TSB staff.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr W knew he had a choice whether or not to take 
out the SA, and he chose to do so based on the information he read online, having 
confirmed that he had read it.
As no advice was given by TSB staff, TSB was only required to provide Mr W with enough 
information about the SA to make an informed decision about the SA.
And I think its more likely than not that it did.
I say this because TSB provided a lot of information about the SA online in order to sell it. 
I cant see any evidence that TSB failed to tell Mr W anything about the SA that would have 
put him off. 
And once Mr W had bought the SA it was for him to arrange to use the benefits. And he 
could have downgraded the account at any time, but he didnt.
Mr W says that he couldnt down grade the SA online, and that is true. But he could have 
contacted TSB by phone, email or letter and TSB wouldve acted on his instructions. TSB 
says it has no record of Mr W contacting it for that purpose.
So, overall, I think its more likely than not that TSB didnt do anything wrong in this sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman