DRN-3926951
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain that Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE declined a claim 
made under their housing warranty insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs W and Mr W have a housing warranty insurance policy underwritten by Allianz.
This kind of policy covers damage or loss caused by certain defined defects in the build of a 
property, within the first ten or twelve years of the property being completed and/or occupied.
The certificate of insurance was issued on 9 February 2021, so thats when the warranty 
period began. 
Mrs W and Mr W made a claim on 21 February 2022. They said there was a significant 
ingress of water at the property caused by a defect in the build of parapet walls and a 
balustrade on a roof terrace.
Allianz declined the claim. They said the policy terms included a provision that any ingress of 
water discovered within the first 12 months of the warranty was essentially the responsibility 
of the developer. The ingress of water was first reported by Mrs W and Mr W in September 
2021.
They said the cover provided under the policy would only kick in, in that first 12-month 
period, if the developer were insolvent or the negotiated settlement process described in the 
policy failed to resolve the matter or the defect was caused by building regulations or health 
and safety compliance.
Allianz said Mrs W and Mr W were the developer for the property in question. They were not 
insolvent. The negotiated settlement procedure wouldnt apply because the negotiation 
would be between Mrs W and Mr W and themselves  which would make no sense. And the 
defect wasnt caused by building regulations or health and safety compliance. 
Mrs W and Mr W werent happy with this and made a complaint to Allianz. Allianz maintained 
their position and said their decision to decline the claim was correct. So, Mrs W and Mr W 
brought their complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Allianz had done anything wrong in declining 
the claim.
Mrs W and Mr W disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W and Mr W have provided a report from a surveyor, written in November 2021, which 
confirms the ingress of water and identifies the defect(s) in the build which caused it.
Allianz havent disputed that there is an ingress of water. Nor have they disputed how its 
been caused.
So, the evidence currently available suggests that there is indeed damage caused by a 
defect which would fall within the cover provided by the policy (unless any exclusions apply).
Theres no dispute in this case about the fact that the ingress of water became apparent 
within the first 12 months of the life of the policy. The inception data is 9 February 2021. The 
surveyors report on the causes of the problem is dated November 2021. It appears Mrs W 
and Mr W first reported the issue to Allianz in September 2021.
This brings us to the exclusion which Allianz say would apply in this case, and which is set 
out in Section 8(7) of the policy terms and conditions document.
This says cover is excluded if there is an ingress of water discovered within 12 months of the 
date of issue of the certificate of insurance (and, as I say, in this case, the ingress was 
discovered within that period), unless: (i) the developer is insolvent; or (ii) the negotiated 
settlement process included in the policy document has failed to resolve matters; or (iii) the 
damage was caused by building regulations or health and safety compliance.
No-one is suggesting the damage was caused by building regulations or compliance with 
health and safety rules.
This leaves the question of who the developer was - and whether they are insolvent and/or 
unwilling to engage in the negotiated settlement process or agree the outcome of that 
process.
Allianz say Mrs W and Mr W were the developer. And they arent insolvent and couldnt by 
definition negotiate a settlement with themselves. 
Mrs W and Mr W say they were not the developer. They say they have no building 
experience or qualifications and arent building professionals. Theyve said they think the 
developer was the building company they employed to work on the property. That company 
walked off the site before completion and has now ceased trading.
I take Mrs W and Mr Ws point that they couldnt be described in normal parlance as property 
developers. However, I think they are the developer for the purposes of the warranty 
insurance policy. And so, I think the exclusion has been properly applied by Allianz in this 
case. Ill explain why.
Developer is a defined term in the policy (which moves us away from giving it the meaning 
it might have in normal parlance). The definition given in the terms is:
The company or person who is responsible for the construction of the works
I dont think anyone would imagine that means the developer is the person that actually 
lays the bricks. Its the person who is responsible for, or is directing, the build.
Mrs W and Mr W own the site on which the build took place - and have done so since 2011. 
They appear to have been building  or renovating  a home in which to live.
They hired contractors to do the work. And in fact, terminated one contractor before the 
second one walked off the site. At various points, particularly after the second contractor left, they hired someone to manage the project, although they werent in place throughout the 
build.
Again, I dont think it would be reasonable to regard either the contractor or the project 
manager as the developer for the project. They were simply engaged  by Mrs W and 
Mr W  to carry out certain tasks on the site.
Ultimately, I think its fair and reasonable to regard Mrs W and Mr W as being responsible for 
the construction of the works  and so, in the terms of the policy at least, the developer.
My view is reinforced by some of the other documentation weve seen around the purchase 
of the policy and around the contract of insurance itself.
The quotation for insurance, issued by Allianz to Mrs W and Mr W in December 2017 names 
them as the Insured, This implies that they are the owners and developers of the property. 
Not least because the policy would usually be bought by the developer prior to completion 
and sale of the property.
Even more persuasively perhaps, the key facts policy summary sent to Mrs W and Mr W 
before purchase of the policy (again in December 2017), says the full terms can be found in 
the policy document, which will be issued to you, as the developer. 
Mrs W and Mr W accepted the policy, on those terms. Theres no evidence they questioned 
being described as the developer at the time.
The client services agreement  also sent to Mrs W and Mr W, at the same time  says:
If you are. the property owner who is building the premises in anticipation of a 
future sale or for any other purpose or a builder on contractor who is building the 
premises for future sale or any other purpose. then you hereby agree to take full 
responsibility for rectifying any defect that results in any ingress of water claim in the 
first 12 months following (policy inception)   
Im satisfied its entirely fair to say that agreement  also accepted by Mrs W and Mr W at 
the time - almost certainly implies that Alllianz would regard them (the property owner 
building the premises for any other purpose) as the developer, as defined in the policy 
terms.
And if one were to accept a contrary argument and say theres no definite link here to the 
identification of the developer  because that term isnt mentioned  then the significant fact 
remains that the agreement places the onus on the property owner who is building the 
premises (undoubtedly Mrs W and Mr W) to rectify any defect resulting in any ingress of 
water in the first 12 months.
I also note that there is email correspondence on file, between Mrs W and Mr W and the 
insurer which at the very least implies that Mrs W and Mr W are in fact directing and 
controlling the build.
 For example, there are emails in which Mr W refers to having an earlier policy obtained 
through the first contractor, for which he paid. And theres also reference to Mrs W and Mr W 
terminating the first builders contract. And deciding whether the build would continue on the 
same plan.
Taking all of that evidence into account, I cant reasonably conclude that Allianz have acted 
in any way unfairly in declining Mrs W and Mr Ws claim. Im satisfied Mrs W and Mr W are the developer in the terms set out in the policy. 
Even if they were not, the client services agreement makes it clear they (as the property 
owner building the premises) are responsible for rectifying the defect caused by the ingress 
of water.
Exclusions like the one relied upon by Allianz in this case arent unusual in building warranty 
policies. And they arent inherently unfair, just so long as they are clear in the policy terms 
and other documentation. 
Ultimately, these arrangements may reflect the fact that insurers wont usually agree to 
terms which would effectively allow a policyholder to build a property badly and then claim 
on their insurance within months of completion. Its not unreasonable for insurers to want to 
exclude that particular kind of risk from the cover on offer.
I understand Mrs W and Mr W have now made a further complaint to Allianz essentially 
alleging that the policy was mis-sold to them. I also understand that at least part of that 
complaint might be that, as Mrs W and Mr W were not developers but were essentially 
engaged in a self-build project, the policy  sold to them on advice from Allianz they say  
was not suitable for their needs.
It's not for me to comment on that further complaint. Under the rules which govern our 
service (which our investigator has explained to Mrs W and Mr W), in making this decision I 
can only consider the complaint points set out in Mrs W and Mr Ws original complaint to 
Allianz and then brought to us. And that complaint was simply that Allianz were not entitled 
to decline the claim under the terms of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman