DRN-2915794
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that NRAM Limited incorrectly reported adverse information on her credit
file.  
What happened
In 2003, Mrs C took out a joint loan with her then partner. After experiencing some financial
difficulty and separating from her then partner, Mrs C entered into a trust deed in 2005,
which included her half of the 2003 loan. The Trust Deed was satisfied in 2009 and the debt
cleared from her credit report several years later.
In 2014, Mrs Cs application for a credit card was declined and it became clear that she was
still being linked with the 2003 loan, which was now with NRAM. After writing to NRAM and
providing her Trust Deed documents, it was accepted by NRAM that Mrs C wasnt
responsible for the debt and NRAM removed Mrs Cs association with it.
In mid-2020, Mrs C applied for a mortgage with her husband to purchase a property abroad.
Toward the end of this process, the lender queried an NRAM debt which had reappeared on
Mrs Cs credit file. Ultimately, the lender chose to decline the mortgage application because
of the NRAM debt on Mrs Cs credit file. Mrs C wasnt happy about this, so she raised a
complaint.
NRAM looked at Mrs Cs complaint. They acknowledged that they had incorrectly reported
the debt to the credit reference agencies, and they promised to correct Mrs Cs credit file.
NRAM also made an offer of £50 to compensate Mrs C for the inconvenience involved.
Mrs C wasnt satisfied with NRAMs response, especially as NRAMs mistake had caused
her mortgage application to fall through and that her husband and herself had already paid a
non-refundable deposit toward the overseas property in excess of £20,000. So, she referred
her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that they could reasonably
say that Mrs Cs mortgage application fell through solely because of the NRAM incorrectly
reporting the debt on Mrs Cs credit file, and because of this they didnt feel that they could
ask NRAM to reimburse Mrs C for the financial losses that Mrs C believed that NRAM should
be responsible for.
However, our investigator didnt feel that the £50 offer of compensation went far enough to
recognise the trouble and upset that Mrs C had incurred. So, they recommended that the
complaint be upheld in Mrs Cs favour and that NRAM should pay Mrs C £350 as
compensation for the distress and inconvenience she had incurred.
Mrs C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 June 2021 as follows:
A key aspect of this complaint is whether its fair and reasonable to conclude that 
NRAM incorrectly adding the debt to Mrs Cs credit file was the primary cause of Mrs 
C and her husbands mortgage application being declined. Our investigator didnt feel 
that it could fairly be said that this was the case, and because of this, they also didnt 
feel that it was reasonable to hold NRAM accountable for the financial loss that Mrs 
C incurred as a result of the mortgage application being declined.
In response to the view put forward by our investigator, Mrs C provided further 
evidence and information about the declining of the mortgage application, including 
email trails between herself and the mortgage provider which strongly suggests that 
the mortgage provider did decline the mortgage application because of the debt 
incorrectly added to Mrs Cs credit file by NRAM.
Any mortgage application is subject to a number of factors  due to the nature of the 
amount and purpose of the borrowed amount  so there could always be other 
reasons that the application wouldnt have been successful. But here, I am 
persuaded at this stage that the actions of NRAM were, at the very least, a major 
contributing factor in the mortgage being declined  but more likely than not, the main 
reason, based on the evidence we have.
That means that I think that NRAM could be held liable for any financial losses Mrs C
incurred here. But the difficulty here is in determining what it would be fair to hold 
NRAM accountable for and how these losses could be calculated in an accurate way. 
At the time that NRAM incorrectly reported the loan on Mrs Cs credit file, Mrs C and 
her husband had already made a non-refundable deposit payment in excess of 
£20,000 toward the overseas property. This meant that NRAMs error contributed to 
Mrs C being in the position whereby she was no longer able to get a mortgage  
because of the incorrect state of her credit file  and was therefore in danger of 
losing the non-refundable deposit that her husband and she had paid.
Faced with this dilemma, Mrs C and her husband opted to fund the purchase of the 
house by other means, so as to not lose the significant deposit that they had already 
paid. This involved the taking of a personal loan, as well as Mrs Cs husband 
commuting part of his pension and taking significant capital out of his business.
These losses were incurred by Mrs Cs husband  rather than by Ms C directly. And 
its Mrs C who is eligible to complain about NRAM here, as its Mrs C who holds the 
relevant relationship with NRAM. But Ive taken into account that the application for 
the mortgage was a joint one with her husband  so she was a party to this.
Ultimately, the property purchase was a time sensitive transaction and I can see why 
Mrs C and her husband took the course of action that they did here. But they 
wouldve done so with an awareness of the risks of doing so in order to secure the 
property (which has its own value as an asset). And so it would be difficult for me to 
say that NRAM should pay all of the losses incurred by Mrs Cs husband here.
The other complicating factor here is that arriving at an accurate calculation of this 
financial loss is extremely difficult in this situation, given the multi-faceted nature of 
what Mrs C and her husband chose to do in order to fund the property purchase.For instance, Mrs Cs husband commuted part of his pension, meaning that while an
increased lump sum was received which helped facilitate the purchase of the 
property, Mrs Cs husbands future monthly pension income will be less than it would 
have been had the commutation never taken place. This means that the total actual 
financial loss wont be calculable here until Mrs Cs husband dies, and any 
calculation made at this point would need to be undertaken as an estimate based on 
life expectancy statistics.
This service is an impartial, free to use alternative to the courts. And so, to tell a 
business that it must pay a loss, we have to be able to fairly say what that loss is. 
And we cant reasonably say that a business must make payments for financial loss 
when it cant fairly be understood what the accurate amount of that financial loss it. 
And, as alluded to above, any calculation undertaken here in this regard is 
complicated by the complex nature of the steps taken by Mrs C and her husband to 
purchase the property, all of which must be offset against fact that theres no longer a 
mortgage to be paid on the property and that Mrs C and her husband now own the 
property outright as an asset.
But thats not to take away from the impact of NRAMs actions on Mrs C here. Her 
property purchase was going ahead and was time sensitive. Shed chosen to apply 
for a mortgage with her husband because she thought, quite reasonably, that her 
financial standing and her credit profile would allow that. So, to find that this wasnt 
the case because of an error that NRAM made around something she took steps to 
resolve several years ago must have been incredibly upsetting and disappointing.
Additionally, its clear that Mrs C incurred a high level of trouble, frustration, and 
distress in her attempts to get NRAM to resolve the situation in time for her and her 
husbands mortgage application to be approved, and it must have been intensely 
disappointing for Mrs C when NRAM didnt resolve matters to her mortgage 
providers satisfaction, and her mortgage application was declined.
So, while I dont feel that I can fairly ask NRAM to pay for the losses here as Mrs C 
would like, I do feel that these should be taken into account alongside the substantial 
distress and inconvenience that Mrs C has incurred here. This includes not only the 
impact on Mrs C of discovering that the debt had reappeared on her credit file 
incorrectly and the mortgage being declined following this, but also the trouble 
incurred by Mrs C in having to deal with NRAM, the worry that she must have felt in 
regard to the possibility of the property purchase falling through, and the upset and 
difficulty Mrs C must have encountered when having to work out and implement 
alternative funding solutions with her husband.
As such, in consideration of all the above, my provisional decision will be that I 
uphold this complaint in Mrs Cs favour, and I will be provisionally instructing NRAM 
to make a payment of £2,000 to Mrs C to compensate her for what has happened 
here.
I hope that both Mrs C and NRAM can understand, based on what Ive explained 
above, why Ive made the provisional decision that I have here, and I welcome any 
comments or additional information that either Mrs C or NRAM might wish to make in 
response to this decision, so long as these are provided to me no later than 3 July 
2021.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mrs C and NRAM the opportunity to provide any 
comments or further information that they wished me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision.NRAM confirmed that they had nothing further to add. However, Mrs C did provide a further 
submission for me to review.
In her submission, Mrs C reiterated several points that she had raised previously with this 
service and stated that while she was satisfied that I was provisionally upholding her 
complaint, she didnt feel that the compensation payment of £2,000 went far enough to cover 
the losses that she had incurred. Mrs C also stated that she didnt understand why I didnt 
consider it fair that NRAM should make a payment to her based on a calculation of financial 
loss.
I can appreciate Mrs Cs position here. But given the impartiality of this service, for me to 
consider asking NRAM to make a payment for financial loss incurred, Id need to be satisfied 
that the financial loss incurred can be accurately calculated  which for the reasons 
explained in my provisional decision letter, I dont feel is the case in this instance. And for the 
same reason of impartiality, its beyond the remit of this service to make an award for 
financial loss when such financial loss cant be accurately calculated.
Furthermore, the £2,000 compensation that I provisionally awarded for the distress and 
inconvenience she may have incurred, was precisely for the distress and inconvenience she 
may have incurred and wasnt awarded with a view to compensating Mrs C for any financial 
loss that may have taken place.
I realise that Mrs C will continue to be disappointed with the decision Ive reached here, and I 
can sympathise with her frustrations. But in impartially considering all the available 
information, including Mrs Cs response to my provisional decision, I remain of the opinion 
that the outcome outlined in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances here - and within the remit of this service - for the reasons already explained.
If Mrs C remains unhappy with my decision, she is free to reject my findings and to pursue 
the complaint elsewhere and through different means. But my decision here represents the 
end of what this service can do as an impartial service in terms of her complaint.
  
Putting things right
NRAM must make a payment of £2,000 to Mrs C to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against NRAM Limited on the basis explained 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman