DRN-2559931
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Assicurazioni Generali SpA (AG SpA) has declined his claim. 
What happened
Mr M had a group income protection policy with AG SpA which would pay a benefit if Mr M 
was incapacitated after a waiting period (the deferred period) of 52 weeks. 
In 2017, Mr M became absent from work due to headaches and balance issues. In 2018, he 
submitted a claim to AG SpA. It reviewed the medical evidence and said it didnt think the 
evidence demonstrated that Mr M was unable to perform the material and substantial duties 
of his occupation  and so it declined Mr Ms claim. 
Mr M disagreed and appealed. He said he had since received a formal diagnosis from his 
neurologist of functional neurological disorder (FND) and had been told to come off all 
medication  and as a result, his symptoms had become worse. 
AG SpA reviewed the claim again and maintained its decision to decline on the basis that 
the diagnosis from the neurologist didnt comment on his ability to work. It said Mr M should 
try a phased return to work. 
 
Unhappy with this, Mr M referred his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought B had unfairly declined the claim. AG 
SpA disagreed and made the following comments:
There was insufficient evidence of incapacity during the deferred period 
It had carried out an independent assessment which set out Mr Ms capabilities 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 12 January 2021. Ill repeat my provisional findings here:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Its important to note before I begin that its not my role to diagnose Mr Ms medical 
condition. I need to consider all available medical evidence and decide whether or not       
AG SpA has dealt with the claim fairly against the background of the terms and conditions.   
Mr M has no doubt been unwell for a number of years and has suffered from headaches and 
other symptoms. 
The policy pays out if a member is incapacitated during and after a deferred period of 52 
weeks. Incapacity is defined as follows:
As a result of illness or injury, the member is incapable of performing the material 
and substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other 
work or occupation.
Mr M was absent from work during the deferred period between September 2017 to 
September 2018.
Ive reviewed the following medical evidence, which Ive summarised:
November 2007  a letter from a Consultant Neurologist to GP  Mr M had 
symptoms including shaking of hands, poor coordination, a weak grip, dizziness, 
zoning out, problems with symptoms getting worse after effort, leg pain and constant 
headaches. Detailed neurological examination  couldnt find any abnormal signs - 
same as January 2005.
March 2017  diagnosis  headaches. Mr M sleeps poorly, has bilateral tinnitus. Has 
problems with memory, difficulties with attention, cannot absorb information that he 
receives during training. Doesnt think there is any particular stress out of the 
ordinary. Pains and headaches have become much worse when he sneezes or 
coughs. Lying down eases this a bit. Examination was normal. Suggested a referral 
to a pain clinic and a change in medication.
August 2017  a letter from GP to Consultant Neurologist  needs a follow up but 
hasnt heard anything. He is taking Topiramate, chronic headaches that react to 
atmospheric pressure, sudden change in posture brings on headaches, Topiramate 
helps, but slow processing of information and pins and needles of toes a side effect.
November 2017  letter from Consultant Neurologist to GP  diagnosis is long 
standing migraine with recent exacerbation triggered by spinal surgery. Originally 
saw Mr M in 2005 with neurological symptoms  more typically migranous. 
Headaches deteriorated dramatically a couple of years ago with low pressure 
headache. MRI scan in September 2016 was normal. Continuing to struggle with 
symptoms, short term memory is poor, feels dizzy, unsteady and light headed. Mood 
seems to have deteriorated recently, possibly exacerbated by Topiramate. Struggling 
with headaches which are worse when he lies down and worse again when he sits 
up, has quite a lot of ongoing migranous symptoms including photo phobia, motion 
sickness and pins and needles which may be related to medication. Has struggled 
over the years with depression and his mood seems to be more volatile and lower 
recently. Neurological examination is normal with no sign of intracranial pressure. An 
anti-depressant is best for controlling headaches and mood. Havent arranged 
routine follow up.
December 2017  letter from GP to Consultant Neurologist  suggestions for 
medication have failed  asks if there is anything else to try or anywhere else to send 
Mr M.
January 2018  letter from Consultant Neurologist to GP  sorry that suggestions for 
Mr Ms treatment have failed. Didnt think he had tried Candesartan for migraine  
might be worth trying.
February 2018  letter from GP to Consultant Neurologist  latest suggestion of 
Candesartan made headaches worse. Have increased GABA to 900mg but lost what 
to do next if this fails.
March 2018  letter from Consultant Neurologist to GP  doesnt have any further 
suggestions.April 2018  letter from GP to Consultant Neurologist  tried Mr M on Pizotifen and 
Propranolol and didnt know what to do next as both didnt work, asked for more 
ideas.
May 2018  letter from consultant Neurologist to GP as trials of Pizotifen and 
Propranolol didnt work, consider referring Mr M to the Headache Clinic.
In September 2018, the jobcentre wrote to Mr Ms GP to say: we assessed Mr Mand 
decided that he is capable of doing some work, but this might not be the same type of work 
he may have done before.
AG SpA obtained and reviewed Mr Ms medical notes from his GP which showed that Mr M 
had regularly visited his GP and had been referred to a Neurologist. He had been signed off 
work due to headaches throughout. He had also tried a number of medications, as 
recommended by the Neurologist, all of which failed to work. 
AG SpA wrote to Mr Ms GP and the Neurologists he had seen. It asked for a report on a 
diagnosis and status and prognosis for return to working. The GP replied and confirmed Mr 
M suffered from headaches but there was no diagnosis at the moment. The GP said Mr Ms 
symptoms started in February 2016 and listed the medication Mr M had been taking. The GP 
confirmed an MRI scan in June 2018 was normal and they were still waiting for something 
which worked  Mr M had been referred to Neurology specialists. 
Mr Ms Neurologist wrote back to AG SpA and said Mr M was currently diagnosed as 
suffering from long standing migraine with recent exacerbation triggered by spinal surgery. 
He said in order to assist Mr M back into the workplace, it would be necessary to improve his 
headaches and other Neurological symptoms and this would depend on a suitable medical 
treatment being found - Mr Ms symptoms had been chronic and unfortunately unresponsive 
to treatment. 
After reviewing the medical information provided by Mr Ms GP and the Neurologist, AG SpA 
arranged for Mr M to have a functional capacity and cognitive evaluation (FCCE) as well as 
a job demands analysis. The FCCE was done in November 2018. The job demands analysis 
was completed in January 2019.
The results of the FCCE and job demands analysis showed that Mr M had the functional 
capacity to complete the physical and cognitive demands of the role and recommended that 
Mr M engaged in a phased return to work. 
Mr M emailed his employer in February 2019 and said he had had a formal diagnosis of FND 
in December 2018 from a consultant neurologist. The diagnosis was a chronic tension type 
headache as part of an FND. The consultant suggested that Mr M stopped all medication 
and try Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) as an alternative to pharmaceutical treatment.
Mr M said that during the FCCE, he almost fell backwards down the stairs and this was 
witnessed by the examiner. He also said after the three-hour testing, he was exhausted for 
two days. In addition, following his diagnosis, he had come off all medication and because of 
this, his symptoms and pain levels had increased exponentially. He was in constant and 
chronic pain and his sleep was very poor. He said his ability to carry out tasks safely and 
without injury was impaired and he had difficulty walking any distance without pain. He was 
using a walking stick for support and hadnt driven in weeks as he had made major errors in 
concentration. He said the symptoms of FND were massively variable and unpredictable. 
AG SpA reviewed the information from the Consultant Neurologist but said this didnt confirm 
that Mr Ms function and working capacity had been assessed. It maintained its decision to 
decline the claim and said it was required to review the matter holistically and assess whether Mr Ms functional capacity to do his day to day activities and occupation had been 
impacted by the symptoms he had been dealing with. The FCCE report showed that Mr M 
could safely perform normal working activities as long as adjustments were made to support 
him. It highlighted there was no cognitive impairment. The job demands analysis noted that 
Mr M had the functional capacity to complete the physical and the cognitive demands of his 
role. And so Mr M didnt satisfy the definition of incapacity. 
Mr M had another occupational health assessment on 7 June 2019. This said Mr M was unfit 
for his current role, as he was unable to mobilise without the use of a wheelchair or scooter 
and was required to work alone and climb ladders. Mr M was unlikely to be fit for any role at 
present, due to his current condition and symptoms.
Having considered all of the available evidence, and whilst I sympathise with Mr Ms health 
problems, I dont think AG SpA incorrectly declined Mr Ms claim. Mr M has to be unable to 
perform the material and substantial duties of his role, throughout the deferred period, to be 
eligible for a benefit under the terms of the policy. 
Ive reviewed the medical evidence throughout the deferred period and although Mr M was 
signed off by his GP throughout that period, this was based on self-reporting and doesnt in 
itself demonstrate that Mr M is incapacitated from his role. 
AG SpA arranged for an independent assessment which found that Mr M could carry out his 
role. In order to be eligible for payment, Mr M would need to show, through the medical 
evidence, that he wasnt able to carry out the material and substantial duties of his job. I 
havent seen anything in the medical evidence which comments on Mr Ms ability to carry out 
the specific duties of his job. 
The medical evidence does show that Mr M has unfortunately been suffering from symptoms 
of FND for a number of years and that he has tried various treatments which havent worked. 
Ive also noted that following his diagnosis, Mr M was advised to stop all medication and try 
CBT. At this stage, he said his symptoms and pain levels had increased exponentially. And 
so this suggests that prior to the diagnosis, the medications were managing his symptoms 
and pain levels, to some extent. 
I have to consider whether Mr M was incapacitated throughout the deferred period. But 
based on the deferred period of September 2017 to September 2018, Im not satisfied that 
the evidence shows Mr M was incapacitated during that timeframe. I think AG SpA acted 
reasonably when it arranged an FCCE and a job demands analysis shortly after the deferred 
period ended which said Mr M could return to work with adjustments. 
Im persuaded by these assessments as they specifically commented on Mr Ms role and 
duties. The evidence from the GP and the Neurologists confirm the symptoms Mr M has 
reported but dont specifically comment on his inability to do his specific job. In addition, the 
job centre had also completed an assessment and wrote to Mr Ms GP in September 2018 
which said he may be capable of some work although his GP notes said he wasnt fit for 
work. And the occupation health assessment was also based on self-reporting. And so 
theres nothing to contradict the results of the independent assessment of Mr Ms functional 
capacity. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Both sides have responded to my provisional findings, which I adopt as part of this final 
decision. AG Spa has accepted my provisional decision but Mr M has not. In summary, he 
has said:
He wasnt permitted to work on health and safety grounds which demonstrates 
incapacity due to his difficulties with balance, walking and working alone. 
He was unable to retain information due to short term memory problems.
His GP had signed him off, he wasnt self-certifying. 
A phased return to work was suggested but never actioned due to health and safety 
elements  his employer said this wasnt feasible and released Mr M from his 
contract. 
Between 2017 and 2018, Mr Ms symptoms were deteriorating. 
Mr M feels he is being penalised for something that cant be clearly defined or 
understood.
Mr M hasnt been able to return to work and his symptoms havent improved.
Ive considered Mr Ms points very carefully. My provisional decision sets out all the facts 
and the medical evidence I have considered. I note what Mr M says but his incapacity has to 
be evidenced through medical evidence. Mr M wasnt self-certifying but the GPs notes were 
based on Mr Ms reported symptoms rather than an objective assessment of Mr Ms 
capacity. When a medical expert lists a patients symptoms as a result of what the patient 
tells them, this is referred to as self-reported. 
I appreciate Mr M hasnt been able to return to work but I havent seen anything which 
disputes the independent assessment of Mr Ms functional capacity. And so I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman