DRN-2940202
The complaint
Mr S complains about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) and their decision to provide 
him with three loans between March 2019 and January 2020.
What happened
Mr S held a current account and savings account with RBS. In March 2019, RBS approved 
Mr S loan application, lending him £1250 with a monthly repayment of £65.04 over 24 
months. 
Mr S maintained these monthly repayments and in September 2019, he applied for second 
loan to refinance his debt. RBS approved this application, lending Mr S £8,500 with a 
monthly repayment of £199.89 over 60 months. As part of this second loan, Mr Ss 
remaining balance on his first loan was cleared. 
Mr S maintained these monthly repayments and in January 2020, he applied for a third loan 
to again refinance his outstanding debt. RBS again approved this application, lending Mr S 
£17,000 with a monthly repayment of £328.23 over 96 months. As part of this third loan, Mr 
Ss remaining balance of his second loan and his outstanding overdraft was cleared.
But shortly after this loan was approved, RBS wrote to Mr S explaining his current and 
savings account would be closed. And due to this, he admitted to his family that hed been 
suffering with a gambling addiction and this is why hed been applying for loans. Mr Ss 
mother complained to RBS on Mr S behalf about this. For ease of reference, Ive referred to 
both Mr S and his mother, who is acting as his representative, as Mr S throughout this 
decision.
Mr S was unhappy with RBS decision to approve the three loans. He thought it shouldve 
been clear to RBS that the loans were unaffordable and that he was suffering with a 
gambling addiction at the time. Mr S explained how the debt hed built up had impacted his 
mental and physical health and he thought RBS were responsible for this. So, Mr S wanted 
the interest applied to the loans to be refunded to him.
RBS responded and didnt uphold Mr S complaint. They recognised the impact Mr S debt 
had on him and apologised for any upset Mr S had been caused. But they didnt think their 
decision to approve the loans had been irresponsible. RBS explained theyd taken into 
consideration the information Mr S supplied in his online application, the way hed managed 
his previous loans, the reason for the loan and his credit file when determining whether the 
loans were affordable. And having done so, they didnt think there was any information 
suggesting the loans should be declined. 
They also recognised Mr S was suffering with a gambling addiction at the time but explained 
they hadnt been made aware of this so werent able to take that into account. So, they didnt 
think theyd done anything wrong and didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr S 
was unhappy about this, so he referred his complaint to us.
While Mr S complaint was with our service, it was confirmed that both his outstanding 
overdraft and loan with RBS had been settled in full to prevent any further harm to his mental 
health.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought the checks RBS 
completed before approving loan one were proportionate to the amount Mr S received and 
his income. So, she didnt think RBS had done anything wrong when approving this loan. But 
she didnt think RBS completed proportionate checks for loans two and three, considering 
the size of the loans and how closely together they were provided. 
But she explained for our service to agree the interest of these loans should be refunded, 
shed need to be satisfied that, if RBS had completed further checks, the information these 
checks provided wouldve more likely than not led RBS to declining the loans. And she didnt 
think this was case after considering Mr S credit file and his bank statements from that time. 
While she didnt dispute Mr S was suffering with a gambling addiction at the time, she didnt 
think this was clear from Mr S statements as there were virtually no gambling transactions 
present. And she also noted Mr S had been able to maintain payments to each loan before 
he complaint. So, she didnt think RBS needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree. He provided evidence to show he was registered with organisations set up 
to help those suffering with gambling addictions so, he was unable to set up gambling 
accounts. He said this is why no gambling transactions showed and instead there were 
transfers to others to place bets for him. He didnt think it was fair that RBS failed to notice 
this and consider this when lending to him. Mr S also didnt think it was fair for RBS to close 
his current and savings account so soon after approving his third loan. He didnt think this 
made sense if they were satisfied he was suitable for additional lending.
Our investigator explained she had only considered Mr S complaint about the lending of the 
loans and it was agreed that a separate complaint would be set up to investigate Mr S 
concerns about his account closures. And she also explained her view remained the same 
as, although she understood Mr S was suffering with a gambling addiction at the time, she 
didnt think RBS were, or couldve been, reasonably aware of this. Mr S didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mr S. I recognise Mr S has 
been suffering with a gambling addiction and he relied on the loans provided by RBS to 
supplement this. And I appreciate how worrying and upsetting it wouldve been for Mr S 
when he discovered his accounts were due to be closed and the impact this had on his 
mental and physical health. As Mr S used much of the loan amounts he was provided by 
RBS to maintain his addiction, and in the end became unable to afford the repayments, I can 
understand why Mr S holds RBS responsible for much of the upset and suffering hes been 
caused and feels they should compensate him for this.
But for me to say RBS should refund Mr S the interest attached to his loans, or compensate 
him for the upset hes been caused, I need to be satisfied HSBS failed to make proportionate 
checks before approving his loan applications or failed to assess the information these checks provided fairly. And if this is the case, I also need to be satisfied the new information 
proportionate checks wouldve provided would more likely than not have led RBS to 
declining the loans. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful to explain what Ive 
been unable to consider. Im aware Mr S is also unhappy about RBS decision to close his 
accounts. This complaint is being investigated by our service under a separate complaint 
reference, so I havent considered this as part of my decision.
There arent a set amount of checks a lender needs to complete before deciding to lend to a 
customer. But these checks must be proportionate to the loan a customer is being provided 
and must factor in information such as customer income to satisfy the lender the loan is 
affordable.
RBS have confirmed each loan Mr S took was applied for online. So, the loans were taken 
on an unadvised basis. And theyve explained they are unable to provide a copy of the credit 
report they wouldve seen when they approved each loan as this was done using an 
automated process. But theyve confirmed Mr S credit report was considered for each 
application, alongside his net monthly income, residential status, reason for the loan and for 
the final two loans, the maintenance of his previous loan accounts. And through this process, 
each loan was deemed to be affordable.
For loan one, I can see Mr S stated his net monthly income was £1,400 a month and he was 
living with his parents. Although RBS were unable to provide a copy of the credit report 
information they saw, Mr S has provided me with a copy of his credit file which Im satisfied 
provides me with the information RBS wouldve seen at the time. And this showed that Mr S 
had only one other open credit agreement, with a monthly payment of £71 that had been 
maintained well with no late or missed payments.
So, I dont think there was any information to suggest loan one was unaffordable to Mr S. 
And Im satisfied these checks were proportionate, considering the amount of the loan and 
the monthly repayment to Mr S monthly income.  Because of this, I dont think RBS need to 
do anything more for loan one.
Ive then turned to loan two. This loan was taken exactly six months after loan one. And the 
purpose of this loan was to consolidate Mr S existing debts which included the outstanding 
balance to loan one. I can see Mr S stated his net monthly income had increased to £1600 
at this point. And Ive seen RBS completed the same checks and followed the same process 
to approve the loan as they did for loan one. But I dont think these checks were 
proportionate on this occasion.
Mr S applied for a loan of £8,500 only six months after taking the first loan. I think this is a 
substantial increase and suggested Mr S was relying on credit at that time. Im also aware 
only three months before, Mr S successfully applied for an arranged overdraft facility of 
£5,000 which I think further supports this suggestion. So, I think RBS shouldve asked further 
questions to ensure this loan was affordable, such as requesting or purposefully analysing 
his recent bank statements. But RBS have confirmed they didnt do so on this occasion.
But as Ive explained, to say RBS need to refund the interest for this loan or compensate Mr 
S, I also need to be satisfied if they had asked further questions, their decision to lend 
wouldve been different. And I dont think it wouldve been. Ive seen Mr S bank statements 
before he applied for this loan. And Ive seen that although Mr S did utilise his overdraft 
facility, he came out of this in early September. Although Mr S was suffering with a gambling 
addiction at the time, I dont think this wouldve been identifiable as there was only one 
recognised gambling transaction per month showing on his statements. The statements did show several bank transfers to other accounts but customers are able to use their account 
as they wish so I wouldnt expect RBS to automatically assume these transactions were for 
gambling purposes unless Mr S made them aware they were. And Mr S didnt do so.
So, I think this suggested Mr S was able to manage his finances well. 
This wouldve been further supported by his credit file, as all of his outstanding credit 
accounts were being maintained well with no late or missed payments. And finally, Mr S 
confirmed the loan was to refinance his existing debt, meaning his monthly payment from 
loan one would stop. And his other account was due to settle in two months, saving a further 
£71. Because of this, considering Mr S net income alongside his residential status and 
existing financial commitments, I dont think there wouldve been enough information 
available to RBS from further checks that shouldve made them realise the loan was 
unaffordable. Because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more for loan two.
Finally, Ive then thought about loan three. This loan was taken just under four months after 
loan two. And the purpose of this loan was again to refinance Mr S existing debts. Ive seen 
Mr S stated his monthly income had again risen to £1,700 a month and RBS completed the 
same checks as they completed for loan two. RBS have said as the loan was for significantly 
more, this time £17,000, Mr S previous bank statements wouldve been considered before 
the loan was signed off. While I can see this loan received manual sign off from a member of 
staff, rather than through the automated process, Ive seen no evidence to show bank 
statements were definitely considered. Because of this, and the high value of the loan 
compared to Mr S income and the proximity of the application compared to loan two and Mr 
S overdraft facility, I dont think I can say the checks RBS completed were proportionate.
But again, I then need to consider whether further checks wouldve supplied RBS with 
information that shouldve changed their lending decision.
Ive seen Mr S bank statements before the loan was approved. And they show Mr S was 
using the majority of his arranged overdraft facility. So, I can appreciate why Mr S thinks this 
shouldve suggested to RBS that he was in financial difficulty. But I also need to consider the 
reason for Mr S wanting to take the loan. And RBS have confirmed the loan was again taken 
to refinance Mr S outstanding debts. Ive seen loan two was settled using loan three and Mr 
S overdraft was also cleared. So, I think the loan satisfied its intended purpose and clear Mr 
S debts at the time.
And I dont think Mr S being in his arranged overdraft means RBS should definitely have 
declined the loan. The overdraft Mr S used was an arranged facility, meaning RBS had 
agreed for Mr S to use this amount. And Ive seen no evidence to show Mr S exceeded this 
facility and entered into an unarranged overdraft. So, I dont think use of this facility 
shouldve led to RBS automatically declining the loan.
I also dont think RBS wouldve been, or shouldve been, aware of the gambling addiction Mr 
S was suffering with the time. As Ive already explained above, almost none of the 
transactions shown on Mr S statements are recorded as gambling transactions. While Im 
aware Mr S was transferring money into other accounts to gamble, due to him signing up to 
a gambling prevention website, I dont think RBS couldve been reasonably aware of this. 
And even if RBS did question the reason for transfers into other accounts, they wouldve 
been unable to compel the owners of those accounts to provide the reason for these 
transactions. As Mr S didnt declare his gambling addiction to RBS at the time of the 
application and was requesting the loan to help what he knew to be his financial situation, I 
also think, on the balance of probability, its unlikely Mr S wouldve told RBS these transfers 
were to gamble if hed been asked. And in any event, a customer is entitled to use their account however they see fit so I wouldnt have expected RBS to request this sort of 
information from Mr S.
So, I dont think RBS lending decision shouldve changed if theyd made further checks. I 
think the monthly repayment seemed affordable, compared to Mr S declared net monthly 
income, existing financial commitments and residential status. Because of this, I dont think 
RBS need to do anything more for loan three.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for and I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment. While I recognise that with hindsight, and a complete insight into Mr S 
situation at the time he applied for the loans, they would be deemed to be unaffordable. But I 
dont think RBS couldve been reasonably aware of this when they approved them. And I can 
only base my decision on what RBS wouldve known at the point of lending.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint about The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman