DRN-3477745
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as B has complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QEL) unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr and Mrs D, directors of B, have brought the complaint on Bs behalf through a 
representative. For ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of 
B. 
What happened
B held business interruption insurance through QEL. B claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. In 
particular, B thought its claim should be covered under the extension for premises closure or 
restrictions or the extension for denial of access.  
QEL turned down Bs claim. They didnt think the interruption to Bs business was due to a 
case of Covid-19 occurring at its premises or due to damage to property within a one mile 
radius which had prevented or hindered the use of or access to Bs premises. 
B complained to QEL. It said the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) calculator showed that 
there were a number of cases of Covid-19 within one mile of its premises indicating that it 
was most likely there had been a case of Covid-19 at its premises. 
When QEL refused to pay Bs claim, B brought its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
B asked for an ombudsmans decision. It thought the cases in the local area were sufficient 
to show Covid-19 occurred at its premises. It also said that the extension for denial of access 
couldnt be reasonably interpreted to require physical damage and referred to the case of 
Corbin & King Limited & Ors v AXA Insurance UK PLC [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) in support 
of why its claim should be paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Bs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if QEL have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Bs claim.
Premises Closure or Restrictions
The relevant part of this extension covers loss resulting from interruption or 
interference with Bs business in consequence of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the 
approval of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a 
Notifiable Human Disease occurring at the Premises 
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease under the definition in the policy. So for this 
extension to provide cover for Bs claim, the closure or restrictions placed on the premises 
would need to be as a result of a case of Covid-19 occurring at the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden 
of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy 
covers.
B hasnt referred to a specific occurrence of Covid-19 at its premises but said the number of 
cases in the local area and the nature of its business means its likely that Covid-19 
occurred at its premises. While Ive considered this, I think B has to demonstrate that there 
was most likely a case of Covid-19 at its business premises. I have to bear in mind that 
most people at that time didnt have Covid-19, so I dont think the general prevalence of 
Covid-19 in the local area is sufficient for me to fairly conclude that there was most likely a 
case of Covid-19 at Bs premises and therefore it was reasonable for QEL to find that this 
extension doesnt cover Bs claim.
Denial of Access
This extension covers loss resulting from interruption or interference with Bs business in 
consequence of:
Damage from the Insured Perils to property within a one-mile radius of the 
Premises which shall prevent or hinder the use of or access to the Insureds 
Premises whether or not there has been Damage to the Premises or Property 
of the Insured
For this to cover Bs claim there would need to be damage from an insured peril to 
property within a one-mile radius of Bs premises which prevented or hindered the use 
of or access to Bs premises. The first reference to damage in this extension isnt 
highlighted in bold therefore I have used what I consider to be the ordinary meaning of 
the word rather than the policy definition.
B believe that Covid-19 is an insured peril, but I dont intend to make a finding on that 
in this decision. Thats because even if Covid-19 was an insured peril I havent seen anything to persuade me that Covid-19 caused damage to property within a one-mile 
radius of Bs premises that hindered or prevented access to Bs premises. 
Ive considered Bs point that this extension doesnt logically require damage to have 
occurred, but I dont agree. This type of clause isnt unusual. I think the wording is clear 
that damage to property is required and it makes commercial and grammatical sense. 
B has also referred to the case of Corbin & King v AXA in support of its claim. 
However, the clause in that case didnt require damage to have occurred so was 
different to the clause within Bs policy. Therefore, the outcome of that case doesnt 
impact Bs claim and this extension doesnt cover its claim.
I recognise this isnt the answer B was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I cant fairly require QEL to pay Bs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman