DRN-4493810
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money (Madison), 
irresponsibly granted him a credit card account, and subsequently increased his credit limit, 
which he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr D took out a credit card with Madison in February 2021, with a credit limit of £1,200. The 
limit was increased to £2,000 in October 2021. The balance was cleared in September 2022 
and the account closed.
Mr D said he thought Madison hadnt carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
before granting the credit card and then increasing the credit limit, and that it has made his 
poor financial situation worse. He also said he was regularly using short term credit such as 
payday loans at the time. So he thinks that Madison should refund the interest and charges 
on the credit card along with statutory interest at 8%.
Mr D complained to Madison, but it said that it had carried out appropriate affordability 
checks, and told Mr D that it did not uphold his complaint. He then brought his complaint to 
this service. Our investigator looked into it, but Madison did not provide any submissions and 
he thought it should be upheld. Madison didnt agree and asked for it to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. It subsequently provided details of its affordability checks.
I issued my provisional decision in November 2023, in which I explained why, in the light of 
the new evidence, I disagreed with our investigator and proposed not to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. I said that I would look at any more comments and evidence provided by 1 
December 2023. However, neither party has responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website, and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks required of a lender, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things such as the type and amount 
of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and 
the consumers circumstances. So Ive considered whether Madison completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D would be able to make the repayments on 
the credit card account in a sustainable way.
I explained my reasoning in my provisional decision as follows:
Mr D sent in copies of his bank statements and his credit record. Madison sent in details of 
the checks it carried out and the information these were based on (including credit reports), 
for both the initial application and the credit limit increase, along with copies of Mr Ds credit 
agreement and his credit card statements.
Madison said that Mr D applied for his credit card online, and that the application included a 
number of different questions around income and expenditure and employment details. It 
further said that when an application is submitted, it is reviewed by its system and assessed 
against its scorecard. And it uses industry standard verification checks to validate the 
information provided on the application.
In this case, Madison said that Mr D didnt provide detailed expenditure figures, so these 
were modelled using Office for National Statistics average figures, along with the information 
from his credit file. It provided the figures it used, and said that as the application was a 
straight accept through its scorecard, it did not request bank statements from Mr D prior to 
authorising the lending.
I should say here that I dont have information showing whether the credit limit increase was 
requested by Mr D or offered by Madison. But this does not affect my decision so I will make 
no further comment on it.
Mr Ds income was shown as £1,582 in Madisons assessment at both the initial application 
and credit limit increase. I think this is what Mr D stated on the application. Looking at Mr Ds 
bank statements, I can see that his monthly salary when the credit card was granted was 
just under £1,570. When the credit limit was increased it was slightly higher at just under 
£1,600. So the information used in Madisons assessments was not materially different.
Looking at Mr Ds outgoings, in February 2021 Madison assessed his rent cost as just under 
£340, payments on his credit commitments as £112.80 and estimated essential living costs 
as around £590, leaving a disposable income of around £540.
Mr Ds bank statements dont seem to include all of his outgoings  it looks as though he had 
four current accounts open at the time, and many of the transactions seem to be transfers to 
or from other accounts. We asked Mr D what his rental costs were, and he told us that the 
rent on his home was £800 at the time and his proportion varied but was between 50% and 
65%. So this would mean he was paying between £400 and £520  a higher amount than 
estimated by Madison.
Mr Ds credit record shows four current accounts and two credit cards open at February 
2021. All the payments on these were up to date, and his credit card borrowing was £1,150. 
I can see that Mr D had defaulted on a loan in 2019 and a balance of £2,900 was 
outstanding. so it looks as though Madisons estimate of credit commitments included a 
contribution for that, and overall I think Madisons estimate is fair. I also think its estimate of 
living costs is reasonable.
Using the higher rental figure provided by Mr D would leave a disposable income of just 
under £350 each month. The required minimum payment on a balance of £1,200 wouldve 
been around £42 plus the interest charged in that month.
Ive kept in mind that the statements provided by Mr D show that the balance in his bank 
account was regularly very low, but its difficult to draw any conclusions from this as many of 
the transactions appear to be transfers to and from his other accounts, or discretionary 
spending.Taking all this into account, I consider that Madison carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before granting the credit card, and that it didnt act unfairly in granting it. I say this 
because the estimated figures used by Madison show that Mr D had sufficient disposable 
income to meet the monthly payments due on the card, and to do so sustainably. Its not 
clear how Madison estimated Mr Ds rental payments, but even taking into account the 
higher figures provided by Mr D, his disposable income is still sufficient.
I also dont think there was information on Mr Ds credit record that ought reasonably to have 
prompted further enquiries. I accept that there was a previous loan that had a default 
registered, but Madison has stated that it will accept adverse credit histories, and in any 
case payments on current commitments were up to date. There is no evidence that Mr D 
was using short term credit such as payday loans, and his overall borrowing was not 
especially high compared to his income.
Therefore, as I dont think Madison acted unfairly, I dont propose to uphold this element of 
Mr Ds complaint.
Turning to the credit limit increase in October 2021, as I noted above Mr Ds salary had 
increased slightly at this point. Madison assessed Mr Ds rent cost as just over £280, 
payments on his credit commitments as £281.50 and estimated essential living costs as 
around £590, leaving a disposable income of around £425.
It looks as though Mr D had taken out two other credit cards in the interim, hence the higher 
estimate for his credit commitments (which would also include the amount due on his 
Madison card of course).
Using the higher rental figure provided by Mr D, and taking account of his slightly higher 
salary, along with the credit commitments and living costs, would leave a disposable income 
of just under £210 each month. The required minimum payment on a balance of £2,000 
wouldve been around £70  an increase of about £28 from the initial credit limit - plus the 
interest charged in that month.
In this case I think that Mr Ds two additional credit cards, taken out in a short period of time, 
should reasonably have prompted further enquiries by Madison, as this could have indicated 
that he was becoming more reliant on credit. So Im not satisfied that Madisons checks at 
this point were reasonable and proportionate.
However, this does not necessarily mean that Madison acted unfairly in granting the credit 
limit increase, and from the evidence I have I dont think it did act unfairly in increasing the 
credit limit.
I say this because Mr Ds borrowing on his credit cards was around £3,900, so again not 
especially high relative to his salary. Ive no reason to think that Mr Ds essential living costs, 
or his payments on his other credit - were higher than calculated by Madison. Taking 
account of the higher rental figures provided by Mr D, his disposable income is still sufficient 
to meet the monthly payments due on the card, and to do so sustainably. And Mr D had met 
the payments due on the card since he opened the account. Again there is no evidence that 
Mr D was using short term credit such as payday loans.
As Ive concluded that Madison didnt act unfairly in granting the credit limit increase, Im not 
proposing to uphold this element of Mr Ds complaint.
In summary, although I think Madison should reasonably have carried out further checks 
before granting the credit limit increase, I dont think it acted unfairly in granting the credit 
card or in increasing the credit limit. So I dont propose to uphold Mr Ds complaint.As I noted above, neither party responded to my provisional decision. Therefore, as no new 
evidence has been provided, I have no reason to change my conclusions. So I do not uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman