DRN-2850686
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage with Nationwide Building Society. Theyre 
unhappy that Nationwide didnt shorten the mortgage term when they made two lump sum 
payments in 2009. 
What happened
By way of a provisional decision last month, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I 
intended to determine the complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words (rounding figures where applicable) 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H took the mortgage out in October 2002; the mortgage term was 23 years, 
giving a term end date of October 2025. In late 2009, they made two lump sum payments of 
£500 each. Nationwide accepts that Mr H called it in November 2009 expressing a 
preference for the lump sums to be used to reduce the term, but that wasnt carried out. In 
2017, Mr and Mrs H made two further lump sum payments of £1,000 each; these were used 
to reduce the remaining term.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs H contacted Nationwide to say that the term hadnt been reduced in 
2009 like theyd asked. Dissatisfied with the reply they received, Mr and Mrs H contacted us; 
we referred the matter back to Nationwide, whereby it was set up as a formal complaint.
Nationwide issued a final response on 21 April 2020. It upheld the complaint, and calculated 
how much the mortgage balance would have fallen between January 2010 and 
November 2017 if the term had been reduced at the end of 2009. That came to just over 
£2,600, and Nationwide offered to reduce Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage balance by half of this. It 
also sent them £100 compensation. 
Our investigator didnt think this was fair. She recommended Nationwide pay the full 100% of 
the balance reduction calculation. Nationwide agreed to do this, but Mr and Mrs H asked for 
the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They dont think the amount calculated is a fair 
reflection of the impact of the term not having been shortened in 2009; they also think the 
£100 Nationwide paid them in April 2020 to be insufficient compensation for their time and 
trouble.
The case has come to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive come to an entirely different conclusion from the investigator; I set out 
my provisional findings below so that both parties can comment before I finalise my decision.
This isnt a case where I have to decide fault; rather, its case where I have to decide fair 
redress. That means considering detriment and mitigation; both are relevant here. Detriment 
is the adverse impact of a mistake. Mitigation is the principle that the parties suffering from a 
mistake (in this case Mr and Mrs H) have a duty to minimise the adverse impact, once the 
mistake has, or could reasonably have, been revealed.
Ill start with detriment. If Nationwide had reduced the term at the end of 2009, 
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage balance would have been lower by November 2017, when the 
term was reduced to reflect the further lump sum payments. Equally though, Mr and Mrs H 
would have paid more each month in the intervening years.
We call a situation like this mortgage under-funding, and when it happens because of a 
business error, well usually tell the business to compensate the customer by crediting the 
mortgage account with the money that should have been paid in if the borrowers had been 
paying the right amount. Occasionally we might say the bank can deduct from the 
compensation the amount the customers have saved by not making the higher payments, 
but most times we dont. Thats because generally the customers didnt realise they were 
under-paying, and the money theyve saved has been absorbed into their day-to-day budget 
without them ever knowing they had it.
But we wont always tell a business to cover all of the period the mortgage was 
under-funded, or pay all of the balance reduction. If we think the borrower could or should 
reasonably have realised there was a problem, and alerted the bank sooner than they 
actually did, we may agree that the compensation can be restricted, either by time or 
apportionment, or both. Thats what I meant when I mentioned mitigation earlier, and I go 
there next.
Mr and Mrs H did have an opportunity to spot the banks error, quite early on, when they 
received the 2009 mortgage statement at the beginning of 2010. Contrary to what our 
investigator thought, it should have been relatively straightforward to glean from the 2009 
statement - and indeed each one that followed it - that Nationwide hadnt used the lump sum 
payments to shorten the mortgage term. I say that because in the section marked 
SUMMARY at the very top of the statement, it said:
Remaining mortgage term 15 yrs 10 mths
(Agreed repayment date October 2025)
Each annual statement sent thereafter contained the same information in the same format in 
the same location. Each statement showed a reduction of one in the number of years left, 
but the number of months (10) remained exactly the same, as did the repayment date 
(October 2025). In my view, receipt of the 2009 statement in January 2010 was 
Mr and Mrs Hs first (of many) opportunities to spot that something might be amiss, and to 
mitigate the effect of Nationwides omission.
Ive noted what Mr H has said about not being able to decipher from the statement that the 
term hadnt been reduced. Given how simply and straightforwardly the information is 
presented, I dont think thats the reason he and/or Mrs H didnt check the position with 
Nationwide. Rather more likely in my view is that, by Mr Hs own admission, neither he nor 
Mrs H paid much attention to their annual statements until relatively recently. Had Mr and Mrs H been in the habit of studying their statements, its reasonable to conclude 
that theyd have noticed that 2017 statement received in January 2018 showed that the term 
had been shortened by the second round of lump sum payments (the repayment date was 
now August 2025). I suspect they did not, because they still didnt raise the alarm until the 
second half of 2019. 
Mr H says he only found the time to look at the statements properly during a recent period of 
unemployment. But mortgage statements are issued for a reason; specifically to let 
borrowers know what is going on with their mortgage. Its also important to keep in mind that 
at the time of receiving the 2009 statement, Mr and Mrs H had only recently made a specific 
request of Nationwide to do something of considerable importance to them. In that context, 
they had a good reason to check the statement to make sure it had been done.
If Mr and Mrs H had done that, the adverse effect of Nationwides omission would have been 
mitigated almost entirely. It would have been nipped in the bud right at the outset, instead of 
building up to around £2,600 over the next eight years. Viewed in that context, for 
Nationwide to have offered to offset even just half of that amount is more than fair; its 
considerably over-generous. There is, therefore, no fair and reasonable basis for me to 
consider ordering Nationwide to pay Mr and Mrs H any more redress for the impact of its 
error in 2009. 
As far as compensation is concerned, Ive noted what Mr H has said about his professional 
charging rate, but thats not relevant here. This was his and Mrs Hs personal business and 
he wasnt acting in his professional capacity. We received the complaint form signed by both 
complainants in March 2020; we referred the complaint to Nationwide and it produced a final 
response with what I consider a fair settlement proposal less than a month later. Viewed in 
that context, £100 is fair compensation for Mr and Mrs Hs time, trouble and upset.
If, on further reflection, Mr and Mrs H decide they wish to accept the offer Nationwide made 
in its final response of 21 April 2020, they can let the investigator know. She can arrange for 
settlement to take place, and the dispute will end there. Alternatively, Mr and Mrs H can, if 
they wish, present materially new arguments as to why I should reconsider my provisional 
decision.
I gave the parties until today to respond to my provisional decision; weve heard from both. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive given a great deal of thought to Mr and Mrs Hs letter of 30 May 2021. But having done 
so, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional conclusions. 
Mr and Mrs H strongly contest the assessment that [they] should have been in a position to 
identify that the mortgage overpayments had not treated correctly and raised the issue 
earlier.  Im afraid I dont see why; nor do I agree that they needed to have committed the 
start and end dates of the mortgage to memory in order to notice that the term hadnt 
changed after the lump sum payments in 2009. They just needed to compare what the 2009 
statement said with what the 2008 statement (or the mortgage offer) said. And as I said in 
the provisional decision, Mr and Mrs H had a reason to look and make sure.
Mr and Mrs H have pointed to the other occasions they made lump sum payments, and the 
opportunities those gave Nationwide to spot that thing werent right. Of course they did, but the same applies equally to Mr and Mrs H. Also, contrary to what Mr and Mrs H says, at no 
time did I say or imply that they were better placed than Nationwide to identify that the term 
hadnt been shortened. 
Rather, the point about mitigation is that it requires a claimant to take steps to minimise its 
loss and to avoid taking unreasonable steps that increase its loss. An injured party cannot 
recover damages for any loss (whether caused by a breach of contract or breach of duty) 
which could have been avoided by taking reasonable steps. The claimant is said to have a 
"duty to mitigate". 
This isnt a duty enforceable by anyone, rather it is a recognition that if the claimant fails to 
do so its damages recovery will be affected by that failure. In my view, reading an annual 
mortgage statement (not just that from 2009 but the ones following later lump sum 
payments) is a reasonable step. 
Mr H says he occupied a senior position in his employment, and spent what little free time 
focussing on his family rather than scrutineering the mortgage statement. Lots of people lead 
busy lives; that doesnt take away the responsibility to manage their own affairs. Also, this is 
a joint mortgage, so if Mr H was too busy, it was open to Mrs H to deal with things instead. It 
may well have been Mr and Mrs Hs due diligence that eventually brought the issue to light; 
my view, which hasnt changed, is that it need not have taken ten years for that to happen.
Mr H has already said he and Mrs H wont be accepting Nationwides offer, and that hes 
researched their next steps. Hell therefore be aware that he and Mrs H dont have to accept 
my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor Nationwide will be bound by my final 
decision. 
Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, Mr and Mrs Hs right to 
take legal action against Nationwide over the subject matter of this complaint wont have 
been prejudiced by our consideration of it. But it does mark the end of our involvement in the 
dispute between Mr and Mrs H and Nationwide Building Society.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman