DRN-2896461
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) didnt agree to cover 
the costs of repair when he made a claim under his breakdown repair policy. 
Reference to Acromas also includes its agents. Mr S has a family membership with Acromas 
with three others named. He was also represented in his complaint. Therefore, reference to 
Mr S also includes the others named on the policy and his representative. This is for ease of 
reading. 
What happened
Mr Ss car was taken into a garage by a recovery company following a breakdown. He says
the garage didnt carry out a diagnostics test and told Acromas that the turbo had seized due
to a massive oil leak. Therefore, Acromas declined the claim as they said this was down to
the maintenance of the vehicle.
However, Mr S doesnt believe diagnostics were carried out or that there was an oil leak. He
says the turbo was just sticking. He says he didnt authorise the diagnostic test. For these
reasons, he refused to pay, and the garage refused to return the key. The police were
involved. Mr S got the spare key from home, but the immobiliser wouldnt recognise the key
because the garage had remapped the car. Hes also provided invoices to show the expense
this caused him.
He says that he was told by Acromas that the claims team would settle the claim, but now
they wont. Additionally, he says that he got the turbo replaced and was told that one of the
veins had twisted and this was why it was sticking. He says there were no prior issues with
the oil leak. Also, that he still has the turbo for inspection.
Mr S complained to Acromas. He spoke with them over the phone in August 2019 and they 
wrote to him in October 2019. They explained they were unable to get involved in the dispute
between Mr S and the garage. They said the claims department would pay towards the 
repair claim but the contract was between Mr S and the garage. They said they told Mr S he
could take his car to a different garage for diagnosis and if the garage speaks to one of their 
tech advisors then the claim may be considered.
Acromas also wrote to Mr S in January 2020 and explained they didnt uphold the complaint
because the terms and conditions of the cover hadnt been adhered to. However, they said
that if he took the removed parts to a local garage, he could contact them and theyd arrange
an independent inspector to inspect the parts. Mr S has told us that he contacted the local
garage and they told him they wouldnt hold the turbo for the purpose of it being inspected.
Mr S remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. The investigator felt Acromas had
acted fairly and reasonably. Acromas accepted the investigators view, but Mr S didnt agree.
Therefore, the case passed to me.
On 8 June 2021, I issued a provisional decision and explained I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint. I said: 
Garage
I appreciate Mr S feels strongly that the diagnostics werent carried out by the garage 
and hes unhappy with the situation which arose here. I can see from the information 
Ive been provided that this was an extremely distressing situation and Mr S has 
provided invoices to show the costs incurred.
In the policy booklet, Acromas explained that any repairer appointed, whether direct 
by the policy holder or on their behalf, would carry out repair work to the policy 
holders instruction and the contract for repair would be between the policy holder 
and the relevant repairer.
Acromas also explained that any exploratory dismantling charges would only be paid 
for as part of a paid claim. Additionally, I can see from the claim notes that Acromas 
told the garage they needed to get authorisation from Mr S before carrying out the 
diagnostics.
Having carefully considered this, I cant say Acromas have done anything wrong here 
or that theyre responsible for the actions of the garage. This is because of the terms 
of the policy but also because they told the garage to get authorisation prior to 
diagnostics being carried out. Therefore, it was reasonable that Acromas said they 
couldnt get involved with the dispute.
Repair Claim
I have reviewed the policy booklet and can see that Acromas set out how to make a 
claim. It states that if the vehicle couldnt be repaired at the side of the road then it 
would be taken to a garage. At which point, the necessary repairs must be agreed 
between the policy holder and the repairer and then authorised by Acromass 
breakdown repair cover claim handler.
Ive seen from the claim notes that the garage spoke to Acromas and said they 
carried out a diagnostic test and that the engine had a bad oil leak. The garage said it 
wasnt sudden, but the engine oil level was at a minimum and the turbo had suffered 
oil starvation causing the bearings to seize.
As a result of the garages findings, Acromas decided not to cover the claim based 
on the finding that the breakdown had been caused by inadequate servicing, 
maintenance or vehicle modification. Having reviewed the policy booklet, Im satisfied 
this decision was in line with the policy conditions. This is because ensuring oil levels 
are sufficient is part of maintaining a vehicle. Mr S has provided some further 
photographs to show the oil levels. But this doesnt tell me the oil levels had been 
properly maintained at the time the vehicle broke down. So on the evidence before 
me I cant say that Acromas acted unfairly here.
I do appreciate Mr S strongly feels that the garage was wrong, and they didnt carry 
out the diagnostics. Hes also told us that he has successfully raised a chargeback in 
relation to the diagnostic costs and that it wasnt challenged. Ive also considered 
what he has said about the condition of the turbo. But these factors alone arent 
sufficient evidence to demonstrate that Acromas shouldnt have accepted what they 
had been told about the condition of the turbo by the first garage.
Additionally, I can see from the claim notes that when Mr S raised his concerns about 
the garages findings, Acromas agreed he could take it to another garage for a 
second opinion. In October 2019, Acromas also explained they would consider the claim if the second garage spoke to one of their technical advisors. As previously 
mentioned, the policy booklet states that prior to repair work, Acromas would need to 
authorise repairs. However, I cant see the second garage did contact Acromas prior 
to making the repairs.
Mr S has provided an invoice to show the repair work carried out replacing the turbo.
Having considered the facts, Im not persuaded Acromas have done anything wrong 
here. I appreciate Mr S didnt agree with what the first garage had said about the car. 
Therefore, it was reasonable for Acromas to say he could take it to a second garage. 
However, Mr S didnt adhere to the terms and conditions of the policy because he 
didnt get Acromass authorisation before the repairs were made. Therefore, it was 
reasonable that they declined the claim.
I also note Mr S says that Acromas said they would cover the claim. Ive had a look 
at the letter from October 2019 and I can appreciate what hes saying here. Acromas 
said their claims department would pay towards the repair of his claim. However, at 
the time of saying this they were explaining why they couldnt get involved with the 
dispute with the garage. A later paragraph also discusses taking the car to a second 
garage so the claim could be considered. Therefore, Im not persuaded this was a 
promise to cover the repair claim.
Inspect Turbo
Ive reviewed the letter sent to Mr S in January 2020. Acromas said that if he took the
removed parts to a local garage and contacted their breakdown repair claims 
department, they would arrange for an independent inspector to inspect the parts. 
They offered this as a gesture of goodwill. They also confirmed that they wouldnt be 
able to send an inspector to Mr Ss home address.
I note that Mr S says he offered three times to get the inspector to come to him as 
the local garage didnt want to get involved. Acromas say they would only send an 
inspector to a neutral location. They also say there is no evidence that Mr S 
contacted them in relation to the offer after it was made in January 2020. Theyve let 
us know that this offer is no longer open. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr 
S.
However, Im not persuaded Acromas have done anything wrong here. Ultimately, 
they gave Mr S the opportunity to get a second opinion, but authorisation was not 
sought prior to the repairs. The offer to inspect the turbo was beyond their obligations 
under the terms of the policy. I dont think its unreasonable that this has now been 
withdrawn as I havent been provided with evidence that Mr S contacted Acromas 
about this. I understand Mr S still has the old turbo, but I wont be asking Acromas to 
do anything further in this respect.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond to my provisional decision before making a 
final decision. Acromas confirmed they had nothing further to add. 
However, Mr S responded to say he disagreed with my findings. Hes said that the vehicle 
has a full service record and so doesnt see how he hasnt met the terms of the policy. He 
says the engine was still full of oil as shown to the policy that attended and at no point did the garage carry out diagnostics. He says that the turbo is still available for inspection and 
feels the goodwill gesture proves that Acromas doubted the garage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached in my provisional 
decision. 
I do appreciate Mr S strongly disagrees and Ive thought carefully about what hes said. I 
understand he feels his evidence hasnt been properly considered including the service 
history of the car.
In my provisional decision, I set out the relevant policy terms and why I felt Acromas had 
acted fairly. When Mr S raised concerns about the first garages findings and the diagnostic 
testing, I would expect to see Acromas take this on board. Im content they did this when 
they said he could take it to a second garage. But as explained above, Mr S needed to get 
authorisation before the repairs were undertaken.  
I understand the turbo is still available and recognise Mr S feels Acromass goodwill gesture 
to have it inspected recognises they doubted the garage. Ive already set out my findings 
about Acromass offer. But I would say that their offer presented an opportunity to gather 
suitable evidence to reconsider the claim in light of Mr Ss concerns. As theyd already said 
he could take it to another garage, this was beyond what I would expect under the terms of 
the policy. 
For all the reasons set out here and in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded Acromas 
have done anything wrong here. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman