DRN-2592465
The complaint
Mr D and Ms E have complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision not to cover a 
claim made by their neighbour for damage to their garden under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr D reported damage to their insurer, AXA. He said a contractor they 
instructed to put up a fence had damaged a neighbours garden wall, shrubbery and trees 
between the two back gardens. Mr D said the damage was unintentional. Their policy 
provides cover in the event of accidental damage 
Mr D said the contractor refused to engage with the neighbour, and so in March 2020 they 
received a detailed letter of claim for the neighbours losses from their solicitor.
AXA considered the details of the claim and said that the damage wasnt caused 
accidentally. It said the contractor couldnt have built the fence without dismantling the 
neighbours property as they shared the same space. 
Mr D and Ms E didnt think AXAs decision was fair. And they were unhappy that AXA 
seemed to accept the claim at the outset, subject to them not engaging in negotiations with 
the neighbour or their representatives. But AXA said its decision was correct as the damage 
couldnt have been accidental. And it couldnt accept or reject the claim until it received 
details of the claim and investigated the matter, which it did. 
Mr D and Ms E remained unhappy and as they asked us to look at their complaint. They said 
they had to pay for independent legal advice which cost them thousands of pounds. But they 
said they were provided with a robust defence. They said they feel let down by AXA for not 
properly considering their claim and providing legal assistance. 
Our investigator initially thought their complaint should be upheld. She thought the evidence 
wasnt strong enough to show that Mr D and Ms E had instructed the contractor to dismantle 
the neighbours property in order to put up the fence. And so she thought Mr D and Ms E 
didnt deliberately cause the damage. 
The investigator explained to Mr D and Ms E that if they were unhappy about their claim for 
legal fees not being considered, they will need to raise that as a new complaint. 
AXA didnt agree. It said that by employing the contractor, Mr D and Ms E are responsible for 
his actions by law. The contactor deliberately took the action which led to the removal of the 
neighbours property. And so AXA said the claim isnt covered as the damage wasnt 
accidental. 
Our investigator no longer recommended the complaint should be upheld. On further 
consideration, she couldnt find that the actions of the contractor, instructed by Mr D and Ms 
E, were accidental due to the works involved in the removal of a wall, shrubbery and trees. 
She maintained that there was no evidence to show what the instructions were, but as Mr D 
and Ms E employed the contractor, they are ultimately responsible for any damage he 
caused. 
Mr D and Ms E didnt agree. They said the contractor maintained that his actions were 
unintentional and they believe the definition of accidental damage in the policy could be 
ambiguous. 
Mr D and Ms E would like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D and Ms Es neighbours solicitor provided a detailed report from a chartered surveyor to 
support their letter of claim for losses. There doesnt appear to be a dispute that the 
contractor dismantled a low level stone wall, shrubbery and trees from the neighbours 
property. 
The issue for me to decide is whether AXAs decision to decline the claim was fair and 
reasonable and in line with the policy.
Ive considered what Mr D and Ms Es policy with AXA says about the level of cover it will 
provide in these circumstances. It says:
Your insurer will pay up to the limit shown in the policy summary (including costs 
and expenses agreed by your insurer in writing) for any one claim or series of claims 
arising from any one event, source or original cause that you or your family become 
legally liable to pay as compensation (including claimants costs and expenses) 
occurring during the period of insurance which causes accidental:
 Death, bodily injury or illness of any person who isn't an employee of you or your 
family
 Damage to material property not belonging to, or in the custody or control of, you or 
your family
Arising from:
 your ownership (but not occupation) of the buildings including its land
 defective work carried out by you or your family or on your behalf to any private 
residence within the United Kingdom, the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands which 
was previously owned and disposed of by you or your family before the occurrence of 
bodily injury or damage in connection with such private residence
AXA also provides a definition of accidental damage as: 
Physical damage that happened suddenly from an external and identifiable means, 
that wasnt expected or deliberate.
I think AXAs policy wording is clear as to the conditions of cover in this case and the 
definition of accidental damage. 
Given the extent of the damage as described, I dont think AXAs decision to decline cover 
was unreasonable. I dont think the damage could have happened suddenly, or wasnt 
expected, even if the contractor didnt act on Mr D and Ms Es instructions. Mr D and Ms E 
say they gave verbal instructions to the contractor for the works they wanted him to carry out, which he didnt follow. In any event, I dont think the removal of the items - which would 
have taken some time  could have happened accidentally. 
I dont think AXA misled Mr D and Ms E into believing the claim was covered at the outset. In 
an email dated 19 September 2019 it wrote; 
Until I have more information as to how the damage occurred I cannot confirm we 
are able to cover this claim.
I understand Mr D and Ms E are very disappointed with AXAs decision. But I think its 
decision to decline the claim was reached reasonably and in line with the policy. So Im not 
asking AXA to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms E to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman