DRN-1943337
The complaint
Mr K complains that Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd (IBUK) introduced two-factor security for 
his trading account. He considers it had no legal basis on which to do so and its introduction 
has caused him inconvenience and put him at risk.
What happened
In 2019 IBUK introduced the new security system for logging into its accounts. It says Mr K 
was sent several emails explaining what was happening and asking him to enrol in the 
system. 
Mr K didnt complete the enrolment process as he felt it was unnecessary and that IBUK had 
no grounds on which to make the change. As a result, his account was put into a closing 
only state, meaning that no new orders could be placed, but that closures and withdrawals 
could be made. Shortly afterwards Mr K adopted the new procedure.
Mr K complained to IBUK, but it didnt consider the complaint should be withheld. It 
explained that it was committed to protecting customer accounts and that while it was not an 
absolute requirement that two-factor security be introduced, UK and EU law and directives 
promoted its use. 
IBUK said that it had contacted Mr K on several occasions to explain the new process and it 
was only in light of his refusal to enrol that it had taken the step of placing his account in the 
closing only state. It pointed to the customer agreement Mr K had agreed to when hed 
opened his account in 2006 to support its view that it had discretion to restrict the use of its 
platform for reasons relating to security measures.
Mr K referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as IBUK. She said, in brief:
IBUKs decision to introduce two-factor security was reasonable given current money 
laundering regulations.
This service doesnt have the power to change how a business chooses to operate.
The customer agreement allowed IBUK to restrict access to protect clients and itself.
IBUK had contacted Mr K several times to explain the situation and the need to enrol 
with the new procedure. 
Ultimately, the investigator didnt feel that IBUK had acted unfairly or incorrectly. 
Mr K didnt accept the investigators view. He said that hed received 15 years of poor 
service from IBUK, including recent failures to access his account and he only remained with 
the business as it provided a service particularly suited to his international circumstances. 
He remained of the view that there was no legal or contractual basis upon which IBUK was 
entitled to introduce the new security process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ombudsman service isnt the industry regulator and its not our role to set the rules for 
financial businesses. Thats the role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority. 
Our role is to consider individual disputes and to reach an outcome that is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of each case. In doing so, I must have regard for the law 
and relevant industry regulations, but Im not bound by them. Ill also take into account 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
I can appreciate that the change IBUK made to its service in 2019 may not have suited 
Mr Ks specific circumstances. But I dont think IBUK can be considered to have acted 
unreasonably or incorrectly in introducing the two-factor security. IBUK, as with all financial 
businesses, has responsibilities placed upon it by the various laws and regulations under 
which its required to work. And one area that has become increasingly important and high 
profile in the years since Mr K opened his account with IBUK in 2006 is security  particularly 
given that IBUK provides an on-line service. 
The type of system that IBUK introduced in 2019 is entirely in keeping with industry practice 
and standards and a functionality thats common to many types of financial account today. In 
my view it was a prudent and reasonable decision for IBUK to upgrade its system in this 
way. And Im satisfied that IBUK communicated the change in a clear and effective manner. I 
cant see that there is any way in which IBUK could reasonably be expected to provide any 
sort of exemption for Mr K, regardless of his circumstances. 
In respect of the action taken to restrict his account, I think this too was reasonable in the 
circumstances and in line with the terms of the customer agreement and the steps I would 
expect any business to take when faced with a customer choosing not to adopt new security 
requirements. I note that Mr K was unable to make a wire transfer during this period, but this 
was solely because of his decision to temporarily not accept the new system. Once he did 
so, his instructions were able to be actioned.
In summary, Im of the view that IBUK acted fairly and reasonably, both in introducing two-
factor security and in the way it dealt with the dispute.
As an aside, I note Mr K has raised other general concerns about IBUKs service. These are 
not the subject of this decision and if Mr K wishes to pursue them, he would first need to set 
them out to IBUK so that it has an opportunity to respond, before we would be able to 
consider them any further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman