DRN-3325516
The complaint
Ms D and Mr L complain about their declined mortgage application through National
Westminster Bank Plc. The reason behind the refusal was their source of deposit, which
they say NatWest should have asked them about sooner.
What happened
Mr L approached NatWest to apply for a mortgage. He says initial conversations took place
with a branch staff member around mid-January 2020. Mr L didnt meet affordability on his
own so Ms D was added to the application. They passed initial affordability checks on a joint
basis.
Whilst Ms D and Mr L were applying for the mortgage in joint names, Mr L was going to live
in the security property on his own. Ms D had her own property that she would continue to
reside in. NatWest says it was initially told the deposit was being gifted by Ms D. NatWest
deemed this to be in line with its lending criteria and so the application could proceed to the
next stage.
An appointment with a mortgage advisor was booked for 27 February 2020 to complete a full
application. The branch staff member called the applicants the day before to chase some
outstanding paperwork and to clarify the source of the deposit. NatWest says it became
apparent at this point that the deposit was coming from a personal loan which goes against
its lending policy. So, the application didnt proceed.
The applicants complained to NatWest. They say they were misled into believing they were
dealing with a mortgage expert from the outset and shouldve been asked much sooner
where the deposit was coming from.
The applicants have told our service that the deposit was to be funded from an equity
release loan against Ms Ds property. Ms D says she had already applied to her bank for
these funds as she was planning to carry out some home renovations and would have spare
funds to use towards the deposit.
The applicants say NatWest gave them the impression the mortgage was as good as
guaranteed. As a result, they got their hopes up, made adjustments to their living
arrangements and fully committed their time and effort to prepare for the advice meeting.
They say they also incurred direct legal costs.
The applicants have further explained the additional impact on Mr L as a vulnerable person
who suffers with his mental wellbeing. Mr Ls intention to purchase a property was driven by
his desire to aid his independence and future security. They say NatWest raised their
expectations. Mr L moved out of his accommodation which was deemed to be unsafe and
was supposed to move in temporarily with Ms D. The inability to progress with his purchase
made this a more permanent arrangement which was not their intention. The declined
application led to a heightened sense of disappointment due to everything Mr L had riding on
the purchase of his own home.
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. It said the true source of the deposit came to light prior
to application and offer stage, and lending was refused in line with its policy. NatWest didnt
agree it had done anything wrong.
Unhappy with NatWests response, the applicants brought their complaint to our service. As
part of their complaint they also said that NatWest gave them wrong information about the
stamp duty land tax (SDLT) payable on the purchase and they raised some concerns about
NatWests complaints handling.
Our investigator looked into things and didnt initially uphold the complaint, but later changed
her opinion. Whilst she thought the mortgage application hadnt been unfairly declined, she
thought NatWest should have asked about the source of the deposit sooner. She thought
NatWests failure led the applicants to suffer unnecessary distress and inconvenience and
so she awarded £100 compensation.
Our investigator also issued further findings on the SDLT and complaints handling matters
but didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong in those respects. The applicants
accepted our investigators finding here. They also agreed with her finding in relation to the
declined application but didnt think the amount awarded fairly compensated them for the
distress and inconvenience caused. NatWest also disagreed with our investigators findings
on this point. As an agreement wasnt reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision focusing on the matter still in dispute. That being the declined 
application and the reason behind it. An extract of my provisional findings is below.
Both parties disagree on what was discussed in relation to the deposit source and Ive 
been provided with conflicting information on what the actual source of the deposit was.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as some of it is here, I reach my decision
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in
light of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
NatWest cant provide evidence of the information gathered during the initial fact
find/affordability assessment which goes against its own record keeping requirements as set
out in its policy. So, I have no documentary evidence to confirm what was discussed during
the initial branch meetings. NatWest also says branch calls are not recorded.
The applicants have been clear and consistent with what theyve told me, and Ive taken that
into account when thinking about whats likely to have happened.
Its common practice for initial mortgage application enquiries to be dealt with by general
bank staff. Theyll take some details and check the customer(s) meet affordability before
arranging a full application appointment with a qualified mortgage advisor. This appears to
be the case here.
I dont disbelieve the applicants when they say they thought they were dealing with a
mortgage expert from the outset but think its unlikely NatWest intentionally misled them into
thinking that. I say this because NatWest did explain the next stage of the process was to
refer the enquiry to a mortgage advisor which was arranged for 27 February 2020.
It wasnt until around this time that the applicants were told that their source of deposit didnt
meet NatWests lending criteria. Its not uncommon for general branch staff to have different
levels of mortgage experience and knowledge - including knowing the different aspects of
the lending policy. So, in normal circumstances I might say its not unreasonable for lending
policy matters to only officially be confirmed by a qualified mortgage advisor. But in thiscase, it appears the branch advisor had some knowledge of the policy. She was able to
confirm what deposit sources were acceptable or not.
NatWest has provided a copy of its lending policy, so Im able to see whats likely to be an
acceptable source of deposit or not. The policy says unsecured personal loans are not
acceptable as a source of deposit. But equity released from another property belonging to
the applicant(s) is permitted subject to certain criteria. So, the distinction between the two
makes a substantial difference here.
NatWest says it was led to believe the deposit was being gifted. Its policy says that gifts
from third parties are an acceptable source of customer deposit, but only where there is no
repayment required. But Ms D was not a third party, she was an applicant. Its not possible
for someone to gift to themselves as a joint applicant, So, its unclear why NatWest recorded
the deposit source as a gift or agreed to proceed on those terms without asking more
questions.
Further to this NatWest had a duty to communicate in a way thats clear, fair and not 
misleading. As part of that, it should understand that consumers are not experts and need
guidance along the way. Just because NatWest asked the question about the deposit, and
they get an answer from the applicants, thats not necessary enough in the circumstances.
There may be occasions, like this one, where NatWest needed to probe or ensure the
question was articulated in the right way  to understand the exact source of the deposit.
Its not clear why the source of deposit was later simply recorded as a personal loan when it
was in fact an equity release mortgage. But that just reconfirms my point that a detailed
enough conversation about the deposit did not take place. Had NatWest asked the right
questions and probed further, it would have come to light sooner that the deposit was being
funded by an equity release mortgage. This would have likely met lending criteria and the
application could proceed.
When taking everything into account, and in the absence of any evidence to suggest
otherwise, Im not satisfied NatWest has treated the applicants fairly. They were wrongly
refused to proceed with their application and not communicated with in the right way.
Putting things right
Ms D and Mr L have explained in detail how theyve been impacted as a result of NatWests
actions.
Its important to note that whilst its likely NatWest should have let this application go ahead,
there is no guarantee lending would be accepted as the final underwriting decision would be
made based on various other factors. In normal circumstances Id suggest NatWest allow
the applicants to reapply if they wanted to. But the applicants in this case, have explained
that their circumstances and plans have changed so theyre no longer in a position to
purchase a property.
Ive taken all of this into account, along with all the other information the applicants have
provided about how theyve been impacted as a result of NatWests actions to decide a fair
and reasonable level of compensation.
In any situation, buying a first home is always going to be an important millstone and a big
deal for someone. NatWest raised the applicants expectations. That level of expectation
may differ depending on the person and their circumstances. In Mr Ls case buying his own
home would make a significant difference in this situation for the reasons explained. The
disappointment of being told he was unable to proceed with his application and fulfil his goalof owning his own property, would be more for him than perhaps others due to his particular
personal circumstances and vulnerabilities. And that needs to be taken into account when
deciding the right level of compensation.
The applicants have said that theyve incurred direct legal costs as a result of NatWests
actions. Whilst I appreciate Ms D and Mr Ls frustration, I cant hold NatWest responsible for
any financial loss caused. Ill explain why.
Until a lender issues a formal offer, its under no obligation to provide the mortgage. Without
reaching offer stage, the applicants chose to move forward with conveyancing incurring
around £132 in fees. Thats a choice they made without any guarantee their mortgage would
be approved. So, I cant hold NatWest responsible for the financial loss caused.
The applicants have put forward personal reasons why theyve been severally impacted as a
result of not being able to obtain this mortgage for example the alterations made to their
living arrangements in anticipation. But again, these actions were self-driven and not
reasonably foreseeable by NatWest.
As mentioned, I dont think NatWest got everything right and I do think it should pay the
applicants compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. When taking everything
into account, I think £500 is fair in the circumstances, considering the unnecessary time and
effort spent preparing for the mortgage interview and the way Mr L has, in particular, been
personally impacted in the circumstances. 
NatWest hasnt responded to the provisional decision. Ms D and Mr L responded to say 
they accept the provision decision and had had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my 
decision. I note that neither party has made any further arguments, or provided any further 
evidence, since I issued my provisional decision. Ive carefully considered again what I 
said. 
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Ms D and Mr L £500 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman