DRN-4193861
The complaint
Mr P complains that My Finance Club Limited (MFC) gave him loans without carrying out 
the correct affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr P was advanced five loans and Ive outlined a summary of his borrowing below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment date contracted 
term (days)
1 £250.00 01/02/2021 26/02/2021 30
2 £400.00 27/02/2021 06/03/2021 32
3 £100.00 11/03/2021 11/03/2021 28
4 £200.00 19/03/2021 31/03/2021 28
5 £100.00 01/04/2021 30/04/2021 29
MFC says all of Mr Ps loans were settled early expect for loan 5 which was settled in line 
with the credit agreement. 
Following Mr Ps complaint MFC wrote to him to explain why it wasnt going to uphold the 
complaint because it had had carried out proportionate checks. Unhappy with this response. 
Mr P referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
In the adjudicators latest assessment, he partly upheld the complaint about loan 5 only. He 
concluded further checks needed to have been carried out by MFC, and had better checks 
been conducted it wouldve likely discovered Mr P was spending a significant sum each 
month gambling.  However, the adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint about loans 1  4 
and referred him back to his original assessment as to why he wasnt upholding these loans.  
MFC agreed with the adjudicators assessment to uphold loan 5 only, and it calculated using 
the formula given to it by the adjudicator that Mr P was owed £27.15.
Mr P didnt agree with the outcome, saying that he also thought loans 1  4 were 
irresponsibly lent. The loans were taken back-to-back and his financial position was the 
same for each application. As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MFC had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. MFCs checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ps income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MFC should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P. 
MFC was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint.
Loans 1  4 
Before these loans were granted MFC made enquires with Mr P about his income. For loan 
1 he told MFC he earned £1,943 per month and then for loans 2  4 Mr P declared an 
income of £1,795. MFC says Mr Ps income was verified because for loans 1  3 it asked for 
a copy of his payslip. MFC has supplied copies of the payslips it was given, and having 
looked at these, the amounts declared by Mr P were accurate. 
Mr P was also asked to provide details of his monthly outgoings across a number of different 
categories included housing, utilities, food, transport, credit and other. For loan 1, Mr P 
declared monthly outgoings of £1,100 and for loans 2  4 and so his monthly outgoings 
came to £1,078. Based on the information it had to hand these loans looked affordable as 
Mr P had sufficient disposable income to afford his repayments. 
Before these loans were advanced MFC also carried out a credit search and it provided the 
results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although 
MFC carried out credit searches there wasnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone 
one to a specific standard. But what MFC couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then 
not react to the to the information it received.  
The credit check results were fairly similar for all loans and wouldnt have been a concern for 
MFC. It knew Mr P had current accounts, a telecommunications account and a credit card. 
All of these accounts were within the credit or overdraft limits and there wasnt any adverse payment information recorded. The results wouldnt have prompted MFC to have carried out 
further checks, and they didnt indicate that Mr P has having financial difficulties. 
Ive thought about what Mr P says about the quick update in borrowing, and I can see that 
loans were approved shortly after a previous loan had been repaid, and in some situations 
that could be an indicator that there are money management issues. However, I have also 
considered that the loan amounts fluctuated, and Mr P was repaying his loans early  
indeed, loan 3 was repaid so quickly it was almost withdrawn and Mr P was only charged 80 
pence interest. 
In saying that, loan 2 was taken the same day after loan 1 had been repaid and I do think 
that had that pattern continued then MFC wouldve needed to consider what a proportionate 
check needed to entail. But for the first four loans in a lending chain given the information 
MFC collected, I dont think it needed to do any more. 
Overall, given these were the first loans it was reasonable for MFC to have relied on the 
information that Mr P provided as well as the information it collected about his income and 
from the credit search. The checks MFC carried out were proportionate and showed Mr P 
could afford the repayments.  There also wasnt anything else to suggest that the loans 
would either be unaffordable for him or unsustainable. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ps complaint about the approval of loans 1  4. 
Loan 5
The adjudicator upheld this loan and directed MFC to pay redress as outlined in their 
assessment. MFC has accepted this loan ought not to have been advanced and so this loan 
is no longer in dispute, and I therefore dont need to make a formal finding. But, I have, for 
completeness outlined below what MFC needs to do and what it has agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr P. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MFC should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not provided loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are 
a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr P may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MFCs liability in this case for what Im satisfied 
it has done wrong and should put right.As MFC has agreed, it shouldnt have provided Mr P with loan 5. 
A. MFC should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards interest, 
fees and charges on loan 5.
B. MFC should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr P which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. MFC should pay Mr P the total of A plus B.
D. MFC should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Ps credit file in 
relation to loan 5.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MFC to deduct tax from this interest. MFC should give 
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am upholding Mr Ps complaint about loan five only.   
My Finance Club Limited should put things right for Mr P as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman