DRN-1655811
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) have unfairly closed 
his credit card account.
What happened
Mr W held a credit card account with Barclays. He received a text message on 
23 September 2019 telling him that his account was to be closed. However, he ignored the 
message as he thought it might have been a scam.
Mr W eventually contacted Barclays on 8 October 2019, where they advised him that his 
account had since been closed. Barclays said that his account had been dormant since 3 
July 2017, so they sent a letter on 18 June 2019 saying that his account would be closed in 
60 days unless he got in contact with them. Mr W complained, as he said he never received 
this letter, and he wants Barclays to reinstate his credit card account.
Barclays maintained that they had made no errors, but offered £50 as a gesture of goodwill, 
which Mr W rejected. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought it was likely that the letter informing 
Mr W of the impending account closure had been sent, and that Barclays had acted fairly 
and in line with their terms and conditions. Mr W disagreed, and maintains that he did not 
receive the letter, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws account state:
Closing your account
This agreement has no fixed term. This means it will continue until you or we decide to 
close your account. You can close the account by calling or writing to us, and we can 
close the account by writing to you. Unless we are closing your account for one of the 
reasons below, well give you at least two months notice.
So Barclays are entitled to close a customers account so long as they give at least two 
months notice. In this instance, Barclays say they wrote to Mr W on 18 June 2019 letting 
him know that his credit limit had been lowered due to inactivity, and that the account would 
be closed unless he took action. 
Mr W says he did not receive this letter. But Barclays have provided evidence of their system 
screenshots to show that it was sent on 18 June 2019 to the address they held on file for him, which appears not to have changed. I havent been informed of any problems with the 
postal system in the area at the relevant time. And I have to take into account that the vast 
majority of correctly addressed mail is safely received by the recipient. So, on balance, I 
consider its more likely than not that the account closure letter was received at Mr Ws 
address. 
Given that Barclays did not hear anything from Mr W within the 60-day period, I am satisfied 
they have closed his account fairly and in line with their terms and conditions. And I note that 
Mr W was also sent a text message informing him of the account closure. I appreciate he 
may have been wary of it being a scam, but he could have called Barclays at that point to 
check it was a genuine message or not, if he had any suspicions. 
Its also important to note that even if Mr W had got in contact with Barclays within the 60-
day period, there is no guarantee that they would have agreed to keep his account open in 
any event  as such is their prerogative in these circumstances. 
Barclays offered Mr W £50 as a gesture of goodwill, which they say remains open for 
acceptance. I appreciate that this may not replace the peace of mind of knowing he had his 
credit card to fall back on should he need to. But I cant fairly ask Barclays to reinstate his 
account given that they have taken the decision to close it in line with the account terms and 
conditions. So if Mr W now wishes to accept the £50, he should get in contact with Barclays 
to arrange for its payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman