DRN-4344598
The complaint
Miss B is complaining that Revolut Ltd havent refunded the money she lost in a scam.
What happened
In January 2023 Miss B was contacted by a scammer. The scammer told Miss B that he 
worked for Revolut, her account with Revolut and her linked bank account had been 
compromised, and to expect a call from a fraud adviser from her bank. She then received 
another call from someone who told her he was an adviser from her bank, and he would help 
her to set up a new account to transfer her money to, to keep it safe. He told Miss B to move 
all her money from her bank account to her Revolut account, and then on to the new safe 
account which he said had been set up in her name. 
Miss B moved her money from her bank account into her Revolut account. Prompted by the 
scammer, she then attempted to transfer £100 to her new account with Revolut, with her 
own name as the beneficiary. She selected the reason for the transfer as something else.
This payment triggered Revolut to display a warning. The warning said that the beneficiary 
details Miss B had entered - her own name - didnt match the beneficiary name on the 
account. But the scammer told Miss B this was because she couldnt have two Revolut 
accounts at the same time. Miss B proceeded, and was shown another warning asking if she 
knew the payee  and if she was unsure, not to make the payment as she may not be able 
to get her money back.
Miss B again chose to proceed with the payment, but the payment was held, and an agent 
from Revolut contacted Miss B directly over the online chat function in Revoluts app. 
The agent told Miss B the beneficiary name she had entered didnt match their records. They 
said that if shed been told the payment was being made to a newly created safe account in 
her name, to stop any communication as it was likely to be a scam  and they strongly 
recommended she didnt go ahead with the payment. They asked Miss B if she still wanted 
to go ahead. Miss B said she hadnt experienced any of this and wanted Revolut to approve 
the transaction.
The agent went on to explain how a safe account scam was typically carried out, and asked 
Miss B if that or something similar was the reason for the payment. Miss B said she had not 
experienced this.
The agent went on to ask Miss B a list of questions about the payment, including whether 
shed been told that she needed to move her money to a safe account as her account was at 
risk or compromised. Miss B replied no.
They asked Miss B to confirm that she acknowledged the warning and was aware that once 
the funds left her account they might not able to recover the loss. Miss B replied that she 
understood the warning.
The agent told Miss B she could go ahead with the payment if she wished. But it appears the 
payment was cancelled so Miss B attempted to make it again. Once again this prompted an 
intervention by Revolut through the online chat. 
Miss B explained that shed already been through all the questions and wanted the payment 
to go through so she could carry on with her afternoon. The agent asked her to confirm that 
the payment was for the same reason as the first payment shed attempted and Miss B 
replied that it was. Revolut then allowed the payment to go through.
Shortly after this, Miss B made a second payment of £24,900 to the same account using the 
same beneficiary details. This payment went through without any further intervention from 
Revolut. Miss B then went on to make two further payments to an account with a different 
business.
The scammer told Miss B to expect another call from her bank, but when she didnt receive 
another call, she realised shed been scammed. Later that afternoon, she contacted Revolut 
through their online chat to report the scam. 
On receiving the report of the scam Revolut attempted to recover the payments of £100 and 
£24,900 from the receiving account, but unfortunately the funds had already been removed, 
and they were only able to recover £5.85. The two payments Miss B paid to a different 
business were recovered and have now been refunded to her.
Miss B complained to Revolut about what had happened and asked them to consider 
refunding the payments. She also said she would have appreciated a more personal 
approach to communication other than the chat function in the app, which she had found 
confusing on occasion. Revolut didnt agree to refund the payments, and Miss B brought her 
complaint to us. 
Our investigator thought Revolut had done enough to intervene to warn Miss B about the 
scam, and she didnt think Revolut ought to have done any more to prevent Miss Bs loss.  
She explained that Revolut had accepted that some of the communication in the online chat 
relating to the dates of previous conversations was confusing and theyd now offered £50 in 
compensation for this, which she thought was fair.
Miss B replied to the investigator to say she accepted the £50 Revolut had offered, but shed 
like an Ombudsman to review her complaint about the scam refund and make a decision. 
She had some further points to add, which Ive summarised below:
She questioned why there was no further intervention for the payment of £24,900 
because it was, in her opinion, unusual and suspicious  and due to the high value of 
this payment she thought a further intervention by Revolut would have had a different 
impact on her. She went on to say that if Revolut had delayed the payment, even by an 
hour, this may have led her to change her mind about making it.
At the time of Revoluts intervention she was mentally overwhelmed and disorientated 
due to the manipulation by the scammer - and she was being coached by the scammer 
at the time of the intervention. The scammer persuaded her that her phone had been 
hacked which led her to disregard the messages from Revolut. She also said that she 
hadnt received any recent information about this sort of scam from Revolut as part of 
their general communications to customers, which would have alerted her to it being a 
scam before she was involved in it.
Because the account the scammer asked her to make the payments to was also held 
with Revolut she thinks they could have done more to recover her money.Miss Bs complaint has now been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to learn about what happened to Miss B. Theres no dispute that shes been the 
victim of a scam, and I can understand why she would think she should receive a refund of 
the money she lost. But I dont think that I can fairly say that Revolut should refund the 
money she lost. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Miss B authorised the payments. And Revolut do have a duty to act on 
her instructions. But in some circumstances, Revolut, as a regulated electronic money 
institute (EMI), should take a closer look at the circumstances of the payments  for 
example, if they ought to be alert to a fraud risk, because the transaction is unusual, or looks 
out of character or suspicious. And if so, Revolut should intervene, for example, by 
contacting the customer directly, before releasing the payments. Id expect any intervention 
to be proportionate to the circumstances of the payment.
As Ive set out, Revolut did intervene here when Miss B attempted to make the payment of 
£100. Revoluts intervention was thorough and detailed, and I think it would have been 
enough to identify the scam if Miss B had answered their questions accurately. But despite 
Revoluts specific warnings about the safe account scam Miss B was experiencing, 
including instructions to end communication with the other party if shed been told to transfer 
her money to a safe account, Miss B said that she wasnt experiencing this and chose to 
proceed with the payment. 
Ive thought carefully about what Miss Bs said about Revolut potentially intervening again on 
the payment of £24,900. I've considered this argument but, regardless of whether they 
should have intervened again, I don't think this affected Miss Bs loss. I say this because 
Revolut had already had a detailed conversation with Miss B where shed repeatedly 
assured them that shed not experienced anything theyd warned her about and wanted to 
go ahead with making the payment. Even if Revolut had intervened before Miss B made the 
payment for £24,900, I dont think repeating the warnings theyd already given her would 
have changed Miss Bs mind about making the payment. 
The other action Revolut could have taken here would have been to refuse to comply with 
Miss Bs instructions to make the payments. But Miss B had responded repeatedly to 
confirm that the reason she was making the payments wasnt any of the reasons set out by 
Revolut that could have indicated a scam. So, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that 
Revolut should have refused to make the payments.
Miss Bs mentioned that she thinks Revolut should have shared general information about 
this sort of scam with consumers. I can see Revolut have provided us with details of some 
general information they shared about this sort of scam in 2021. I dont think they ought to 
have done any more to provide general information, or even if they had, it would have made 
a difference to what happened here  given that Miss B was asked directly about the sort of 
scam she was experiencing during her online discussion with Revolut, but still went ahead 
with the payments.
There are industry standards around attempting recovery of funds where a scam is reported.Revolut should have attempted to recover Miss Bs payments immediately on being told of 
the scam. I can see that in this case the payments of £100 and £24,900 had already left the 
account at the time Miss B had finished reporting the scam and Revolut were able to begin 
recovery action. Once they had been informed they did act promptly and so were able to 
recover the payments that were made to the account with the other business. So, I dont 
think Revolut ought to have done any more here.
I do appreciate Miss B was going through a difficult time when the scam took place. I 
understand that the scam was very convincing and Ive no doubt Miss B felt overwhelmed 
and confused. So, I know this outcome will be very disappointing. However, for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think Revolut should have done more to prevent Miss Bs loss. So, it 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask them to refund the payments Miss B made.
Revoluts terms and conditions are clear in that their main form of communication will be via 
the app, even in cases of fraud. So, I dont think they should have communicated with Miss 
B in a different way. Im satisfied that Revoluts offer of £50 for the confusing date mentioned 
in the chat is fair and reasonable, taking into account the impact this had on Miss B. Revolut 
should now pay this to Miss B, if they havent done so already.
My final decision
Revolut Ltd have already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my final decision is that Revolut Ltd should pay £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 December 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman