DRN-4364642
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Foundation for Credit Counselling trading as Stepchange failed to 
make the impact of a Debt Management Plan (DMP) on future mortgage applications clear. 
What happened
In 2017 Mrs S received debt advice from Stepchange. Mrs S has explained Stepchange 
recommended a DMP for her unsecured debt. In Stepchanges recommendation, it gave Mrs 
S information about her the DMP could impact her credit file. But Mrs S says there was no 
warning about how the DMP could affect her ability to secure a mortgage in the long term. 
Mrs S made payments to clear the DMP debts and has explained that shes recently spoken 
with a mortgage advisor. Mrs S has told us the mortgage advisor explained that because 
shes been party to a DMP in the past shes unlikely to be able to secure a high street 
mortgage product in the future. As a result, the mortgage advisor said Mrs S would need to 
apply to specialist lenders at a higher rate of interest. Mrs S says this will lead to significantly 
higher mortgage costs over the full term. 
Mrs S complained to Stepchange and it sent her a final response on 8 June 2023. 
Stepchange said each entry included in the DMP would remain on Mrs S credit file for six 
years. Stepchange said the information it had given Mrs S when she took proceeded with 
the DMP explained how the DMP could affect her credit. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs S complaint. They thought Stepchange had 
dealt with Mrs S case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mrs S asked to appeal and explained she wasnt complaining about the temporary impact to 
her credit file. Mrs S said shes complaining that having had a DMP means that when shes 
completing a mortgage application shell have to confirm this, whether or not its still 
recorded on her credit file. And Mrs S says that the mortgage advisor she spoke with 
explained that she would be unable to secure a mainstream mortgage in the future. As Mrs 
S asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has confirmed that her primary complaint is that Stepchange failed to make the long 
term impact of obtaining a DMP clear when she completed the application process. In 
particular, Mrs S has explained that Stepchange didnt notify her that even after traces of the 
DMP had been removed from her credit file after six years, it could still affect the sort of 
mortgage she may be able to obtain in the future.
Ive looked at the information Stepchange included when the DMP advise was given. I can 
see that Stepchange did provide some guidance on how a DMP can impact a credit file and 
the ability to secure new credit whilst its reported. But the information doesnt talk about 
whether mortgage lenders will be willing to consider an application once the DMP has 
ended. I understand Mrs S has recently been told by a mortgage advisor that having a DMP 
in the past, even if no longer recorded on her credit file, will make high street mortgage 
products unavailable. 
I take Mrs S point and accept that the DMP may limit her mortgage options in the future. But 
I have to balance that against the fact Stepchange has no direct knowledge of mortgage 
lenders criteria generally or how an application will be assessed. And whilst I note what Mrs 
S has told us about the mortgage advice shes received, I havent seen anything that shows 
all mortgage lenders (mainstream or otherwise) have the same criteria in terms of historic or 
closed DMPs. 
I also think its fair to add that other levels of adverse credit like County Court Judgements 
(CCJs) are likely to have an impact on the ability to secure mainstream mortgages in the 
long term. And, across the industry, a CCJ is generally considered to be more serious than a 
DMP in terms of how lenders view applications. Here, Stepchange provided debt advice then 
contacted Mrs S creditors to agree an affordable DMP in order to avoid more serious 
options like CCJs. And, from what Ive seen, the DMP did what Stepchange said. 
In Mrs S complaint form shes told us she wouldve considered other options, like borrowing 
from family or friends to repay her debts, if the DMP had been correctly explained. But I 
wouldnt expect Stepchange to advise someone to borrow money from third parties to repay 
unsecured debts in their name. Im satisfied that Stepchanges agreement to provide debt 
advice and work with Mrs S creditors to set up a DMP was reasonable. 
Ive considered the information Stepchange gave Mrs S concerning the impact of the DMP 
on her credit file and Im satisfied it was accurate. I appreciate Stepchange may not have 
given a detailed information about how a DMP would impact Mrs S ability to secure a 
mortgage in the long term. But Im satisfied that information isnt something Stepchange 
would have. And my view is Stepchanges advice to proceed with the DMP was reasonable 
in Mrs S circumstances. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but, for the reasons Ive given above, I havent been persuaded 
to uphold her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs S complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman