DRN-1687293
 
The complaint
Mr U complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-
Benz Finance, hasnt waived the last monthly payment due under a hire purchase 
agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator - so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr U had signed the hire purchase agreement in April 2017 and agreed to make 24 
monthly payments of £595.79 for a new car to be supplied to him;
he was in discussions about extending the term of the agreement in March 2019 but 
the monthly payment was too high for him so he was told that he should contact the 
dealer about returning the car;
he says that the dealer told him that he could return the car, that thered be nothing 
further to pay so long as everything was OK with the car and that it would settle all 
financial matters with Mercedes-Benz Finance;
Mr U returned the car to the dealer in March 2019  a month before his hire purchase 
agreement ended  and he clearly considered that there would be nothing further for 
him to pay;
Mercedes-Benz Finance charged him for the final payment of £595.79 that was due 
under the agreement but he complained to it about that because hed relied on what 
hed been told by the dealer and returned the car before the agreement ended;
I dont consider it to be likely that Mr U would have returned the car a month before 
the agreement ended unless hed understood that he wouldnt have to make any 
more payments for the car and Ive seen no other reason to explain why he returned 
the car early; and
I understand why Mercedes-Benz Finance considers that Mr U should be required to 
make the final payment under his agreement but I dont consider that hes ignored a 
legally binding contract or that this gives customers free rein to end an agreement 
early as its claimed  I consider that Mr U has relied on what he understood hed 
been told by the dealer and Ive seen nothing to show that either Mercedes-Benz 
Finance or the dealer reminded him during the discussions about ending the 
agreement that he would still have to the final payment due under it.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for Mercedes-Benz Finance 
to waive the charge of £595.79 from Mr Us account and to ensure that no adverse 
information about that charge is recorded on his credit file.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Us complaint and I order Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to:
1. Waive the charge of £595.79 from Mr Us account.
2. Ensure that no adverse information about that charge is recorded on Mr Us credit 
file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman