DRN-4082365
The complaint
Mr H complains about information given to him by Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers 
Limited (Gallagher) relating to a renewal quote for his buildings and contents insurance. He 
also complains about a set up fee they wanted to charge.  
What happened
Mr H received a renewal invite from his broker, Gallagher, saying his policy would renew 
automatically in just over two weeks for the price of £765.12. Mr H says he was concerned 
as his previous years policy was £316.71  but despite this, the renewal invite said 
Gallagher had found him a great price on a new policy. Mr H says he was able to find 
a cheaper policy so he complained about the wording used by Gallagher as he felt the 
information was misleading and about a £50 set up fee Gallagher were claiming.   
Gallagher responded and explained they search their panel of insurers for the lowest 
premium based on a customers current cover level. They said they dont have any control 
over quotations or terms being offered by insurers on their panel. They explained the quote 
which Mr H was offered was the cheapest they were able to find which matched Mr Hs 
requirements for cover and they understand not all of the insurers on their panel were willing 
to offer cover. They felt theyd informed Mr H of his renewal price in sufficient time to enable 
him to make an informed decision on whether to agree to take out the policy.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H. He thought Gallagher hadnt acted 
unreasonably. Mr H disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr H will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
I understand Mr H feels Gallagher, as a broker, failed to make reasonable efforts to find a 
policy which best suited his needs. He says they claimed theyd found a policy for a great 
price but werent able to explain why their best priced quote was over double the previous 
years policy despite there being no change in risk. Mr H also says Gallagher claimed this 
was the cheapest policy, yet he was able to find a policy which met his cover requirements 
and was priced at less than 40% of the quote he received. 
I think its important here to make clear Im looking at Gallaghers actions as a broker. Its for 
an insurer to consider the risks associated with providing cover and to price a policy. In this 
case, Gallaghers role is to approach their panel of insurers to get quotes based on Mr Hs 
requirements for insurance cover. Gallagher can only therefore be expected to obtain quotes 
from the insurers on their panel. I dont think its reasonable for a broker  who has an 
arrangement with specific insurers  to carry out a wider search and look at obtaining a 
quote from every insurer. I accept this could well lead to instances where a customer is able 
to search more widely and find a cheaper policy to that being presented by a broker. That 
doesnt mean a broker has acted unfairly, but rather, its down to a broker perhaps being 
more limited in their ability to present quotes from all insurers in the market. 
Given the above, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances for brokers to present 
any quote in sufficient time for a customer to carry out their own search and make an 
informed decision on whether the policy being offered is best value for them. And Im 
satisfied thats the case here. The quote was presented to Mr H at least a couple of weeks 
before it was due to automatically renew and gave Mr H an opportunity to make his own 
enquiries. I think its also important to add the renewal invite does remind Mr H he might be 
able to get insurance cover at a better price if he shops around.   
I note Mr H is particularly concerned about Gallaghers claim that the quote is a great price  
when it was more than double what he paid the previous year. Ive looked at the statement in 
the renewal letter and this says We can confirm we have found you a great price on a new 
policy Gallagher say they use this as generic wording in their renewal letters and I can 
see the same wording was included in Mr Hs previous years renewal invite. Ive looked into 
this further and I cant see any evidence which suggests this wasnt the cheapest quote 
obtained by Gallagher. I think its important to take into account, the quote was for cover with 
a different insurer to the previous year  and Gallagher have provided information which 
shows why the previous years insurer wasnt able to provide a quote. So, I cant say 
Gallagher have misled Mr H about this being the cheapest quote. I acknowledge Mr H is also 
concerned about this wording given that he was able to find a policy for £262.75. Ive 
explained above why Gallagher wouldve been more limited in their search and why they 
perhaps wont have had the same freedom Mr H wouldve had when searching the market. 
So, I cant say the wording is misleading even though Mr H was able to find a cheaper price.
I understand Mr H is concerned about Gallaghers set-up fee of £50  he feels its unclear 
what this is for, particularly as his insurance has been arranged through Gallagher for 
several years and there hasnt been any change in his details. I can see, in the renewal 
invite sent to Mr H, this contains information about how Gallagher are paid for their services. 
This says Gallagher will charge a fee for their services and a table shows their fee for 
arranging a new property insurance policy is £50. I acknowledge Mr H didnt pay this as he 
decided not to take up Gallaghers renewal but I think the information about why this fee is 
charged is made clear in the renewal information. 
I do acknowledge why Mr H feels the renewal quote wasnt a great price for him, particularly 
in light of the cheaper price he was able to find. But, Ive explained above why its 
reasonable for this wording to only apply to the results of the searches Gallagher are able to 
make. I accept there are likely to be cheaper policies available through other insurers not on 
Gallaghers panel, but I dont believe theyve attempted to mislead Mr H  particularly as 
they explain the benefits of shopping around. I wish to reassure Mr H Ive read and 
considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of 
evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need 
to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection 
of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Paviter DhaddyOmbudsman