DRN-4465868
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W have complained about how UIA (Insurance) Limited (UIA) priced their 
home insurance policy over several years.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W were insured by UIA for many years. The insurer changed and when the 
new insurer provided a quote, it was for a lower premium than Mr W and Mrs W had been 
paying UIA. The quote also said Mr W and Mrs Ws home had five bedrooms, which was 
wrong. So, they complained to UIA. They said the number of bedrooms was information UIA 
had provided to the new insurer and UIA had been overcharging them based on this 
incorrect information.
When UIA replied, it said different insurers had their own methods for calculating risk and 
premiums. It said UIAs pricing indicators for the policy were the postcode and the sum 
insured, but not the property type. It said it hadnt overcharged for the policy based on the 
property type.
So, Mr W and Mrs W complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He said the evidence provided by UIA showed it didnt use the property type or 
number of bedrooms to calculate the policy premium. He said there wasnt anything to show 
Mr W and Mrs W had been overcharged based on these factors.
As Mr W and Mrs W didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive looked at the evidence provided to this service by UIA. This showed what information 
UIA used to calculate the premium. This didnt include the number of bedrooms. It told this 
service that its main rating factors were the sum insured and the postcode, which is what it 
previously told Mr W and Mrs W. It also said it didnt know the number of bedrooms at the 
property.
Mr W and Mrs W provided this service with a renewal letter UIA sent in 2014 that said: UIA 
underwrites home insurance on both a sums insured and bedroom rated basis, each of 
which have varying cover levels and premiums. I asked UIA to explain what this meant. It 
replied and said it was describing the different types of policy offered, some of which were 
based on sums insured and some of which were based on a bedroom rating. It confirmed 
again that Mr W and Mrs Ws policy wasnt bedroom rated. UIA also said that it didnt know 
the number of bedrooms and didnt provide this information to the new insurer. 
UIA has shown this service how it calculated the premium. This didnt include the number of 
bedrooms. Reading the 2014 renewal wording, Im not persuaded this showed Mr W and 
Mrs Ws premium was based on a bedroom rating. I think it was describing the types of 
policies it offered more widely. I havent seen anything that showed me the premium was 
calculated using the number of bedrooms or that this led to UIA overcharging for the policy. 
As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require UIA to do anything further.
Im aware Mr W and Mrs W have also said, as existing policyholders, UIA should have 
offered them the same rates as new customers. This is a different issue to the complaint Im 
considering. They would need to raise it with UIA so it can consider it. Im unable to 
comment on this any further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman