DRN-2558977
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont refund disputed withdrawals made from his 
account. 
What happened
On 7 February 2020, Mr S called Lloyds to request a new debit card and PIN number. 
He told Lloyds his debit card had become damaged and that hed forgotten his PIN. Lloyds 
arranged to send out replacements.
Mr S was sent a new PIN on 10 February 2020 and a new card on 12 February 2020. Both 
were sent to the address held on Lloyds system. This address is also the same address we 
hold for Mr S.
Between 15 February 2020 and 20 February 2020, seven cash machine withdrawals were 
made from Mr Ss account using the new card and PIN. All seven withdrawals were for £200 
each and took place over a course of six days. One £200 withdrawal was made per day, 
except on 17 February 2020, where two £200 withdrawals were made in one day. 
Two different cash machines were used for the withdrawals  both of which were not far 
from Mr Ss home. No other transactions took place on the account between 
15 February 2020 and 20 February 2020. 
Mr S says he didnt receive his new card or PIN so couldnt have made these withdrawals 
himself. Mr S also explained that hes had problems receiving post from Royal Mail since 
November 2018. He told us hes had statements go missing and had post arrive at his 
address that looked like it had been resealed. Mr S provided us with a document containing 
a response to a query he says he logged with Royal Mail in November 2018, but the actual 
query that was logged hasnt been provided to us. 
Mr S explained he only noticed the withdrawals from his account when he logged onto his 
online banking on 20 February 2020. Mr S said he hadnt accessed his online banking prior 
to that. The information from Lloyds confirms Mr S last logged onto his online banking on 
14 February 2020  this was a day before the disputed withdrawals started to occur. Mr S 
said he didnt tell Lloyds about the card and PIN not having turned up as he assumed there 
may have been a postal delay and that they would arrive soon. 
Mr S told us he didnt have any other accounts and during the time he was waiting for the 
new card and PIN, he had £200 in cash which he was using to purchase everyday 
essentials. 
At the time Mr S reported the withdrawals, Lloyds credited the disputed funds back into his 
account, pending further investigation. But Lloyds decided there wasnt enough evidence to 
suggest fraudulent activity had taken place. 
On 21 February 2020, Lloyds called Mr S to explain it would be re-debiting the amount from 
his account as Mr S hadnt provided them with a crime reference number. Mr S said he didnt 
know he needed to provide them with a crime reference number and that he would get one 
and call Lloyds back. Mr S contacted the Police, got a crime reference number and provided 
it to Lloyds. Mr S did this under the impression that Lloyds investigation was ongoing and 
that the disputed funds would remain in his account, when Lloyds had already reached the 
position it was not prepared to take responsibility for the loss. On the same day, Lloyds sent 
Mr S a letter providing him with 60 days notice of its intention to close his account. 
On 24 February 2020, Mr S withdrew £1,950 from his account leaving a balance of £47.52. 
On 26 February 2020, Lloyds re-debited Mr Ss account and this led to Mr Ss account being 
overdrawn  Mr S did not have an overdraft facility. When the account became overdrawn, 
Mr S was sent a text message to inform him of this. Mr S also received a text to tell him that 
his account is due to close. Mr S called Lloyds and was told that his account was overdrawn 
as the disputed withdrawals had been re-debited from his account. 
When Mr S raised his complaint with Lloyds, the bank agreed Mr S had been provided with 
incorrect information about how his fraud claim would be dealt with. Lloyds felt Mr Ss 
expectations around what the next steps would be once he had reported the matter to the 
Police could have been better managed. Due to this, Lloyds offered Mr S £100 
compensation for the customer service he received. 
Lloyds also said it should have given Mr S 10 working days notice before re-debiting the 
funds that it had temporarily arranged to credit Mr Ss account with. So it agreed to amend 
the date from which Mr Ss account was reported as being overdrawn to credit references 
agencies. 
Lloyds told Mr S it had taken the decision to close his account due to potential risk that might 
be posed to the bank. In its final response letter, the bank explained that Lloyds Banking 
Group had previously withdrawn all of Mr Ss banking facilities in January 2019. At that time, 
it said Mr S wouldnt be offered any account with the group and if Mr S were to open one, it 
would be closed as soon as the bank became aware.
When Lloyds completed their review of Mr Ss complaint, it attempted to contact Mr S to 
deliver the final response, however it was unable to reach him. Lloyds emailed Mr S to ask 
him to confirm his address so that it can post it to him as there was a note on Mr Ss records 
to say he isn't currently at the address on file. Lloyds also left Mr S a voicemail.
Mr S called Lloyds back but was unable to complete security as he said he didnt remember 
any details. He asked Lloyds to respond in writing, however Lloyds said it had a note on file 
to say he wasnt currently at his address and asked whether he had a temporary address. 
He said there wasnt another address. Lloyds offered to send the letter to a branch, which he 
could collect with ID, however Mr S asked Lloyds to send it to the address on file and he 
would collect it from there and hung up. The final response letter was sent to that address. 
Mr S didnt agree with the banks outcome, so he asked us to investigate. When he provided 
his complaint papers, he submitted a copy of the final response letter with annotations, so 
I am comfortable that Mr S has seen and digested what the letter said. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint and thought the bank had acted fairly. 
In summary, he felt unable to conclude that the withdrawals had been made fraudulently and 
thought they were most likely authorised by Mr S.Mr S disagreed and said:
-He had been having problems with receiving post since November 2018. He said in 
the past he had cards, letter, pins and statements go missing. He believes this shows 
that his post could have been intercepted. 
-Mr S also felt the investigator had sided with the bank and had no proof that hed 
made the withdrawals. 
As Mr S didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Generally, Lloyds can hold Mr S liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised the withdrawals himself. The 
relevant regulations to this effect are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ss replacement card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is 
not, on its own, enough to enable Lloyds to hold him liable. So, I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr S consented to the 
withdrawals being made.
Ive considered the options for whats most likely to have happened. These are that the 
withdrawals could have been made by an unknown third party, by someone known to Mr K, 
or by Mr K himself. From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to 
conclude that Mr S authorised the transactions. Ill explain why.
Mr S says he didnt receive his debit card and PIN and suggests that the card and the PIN 
have been intercepted by an unknown third party. Mr S has his own letterbox but explains 
hes experienced problems with missing post since November 2018. Whilst Mr S provided 
the bank a response from Royal Mail to a query logged in November 2018, there isnt 
enough information for me to confirm that this query belonged to him or that there have been 
ongoing postal problems linked to Mr Ss address for around 15 months before the disputed 
withdrawals happened. The response is addressed to someone with a different name and a 
copy of the actual query registered with Royal Mail hasnt been provided. Mr S has 
confirmed that hes not known by any other name. 
I have also thought about whether better evidence of Mr Ss postal problems would make a 
difference here. But I dont think this information would be enough to persuade me that its 
likely that an unknown third party intercepted the delivery of his debit card and PIN in this 
case. If, as Mr S says, hed been experiencing problems with missing post for some time, Id 
have expected him to have made Lloyds aware of this when he ordered the replacement 
card and PIN so it could have arranged an alternative way for them to be delivered to him.In addition to this, the information Lloyds has provided shows that the debit card and PIN 
were sent separately and two days apart. If, as Mr S says, someone did intercept these in 
transit, they wouldve needed to do so on two separate occasions as it seems unlikely they 
would have arrived on the same day. Ive not seen any evidence of any postal delays local to 
Mr Ss address around that time. Im not persuaded that an opportunistic fraudster would 
have been able to gain access to Mr Ss post on two separate occasions, or that they would 
have known that Mr Ss post was due to contain a replacement card and PIN. 
Im also mindful that the use of the card doesnt suggest it was in the hands of an 
opportunistic thief. Mr Ss account balance at the time was £1,905.32. Lloyds information 
shows Mr Ss debit card was used over a period of six days. £200 was withdrawn on each 
day, except on 17 February 2020, where two withdrawals were made  one at 05:05:39, 
followed by another at 20:05:22. Had an unknown third party taken Mr Ss debit card and 
PIN, its more likely than not they wouldve attempted to withdraw as much as possible and 
maximise use of the available funds as quickly as they could.
There were also no balance enquiries before making any of the withdrawals. I find it unusual 
that an opportunistic third party that had gained access to both the card and PIN would 
proceed to withdraw funds without knowing the available balance. Once the card was 
cancelled, there were no further attempts to use it or to withdraw funds even though funds 
remained. That suggests that the person with the card was aware it had been blocked. 
I have also considered whether Mr Ss card and PIN may have been accessed by someone 
close to him. But Mr S has told us he lived alone. Mr S has told us that his mother, father 
and sister had a key to access to home as they would keep an eye on the property if he was 
away. Mr S has also said that they were aware that he was due to receive a new card and 
PIN. But Mr S has not suggested that he was away during the time he was expecting to 
receive the card and PIN. So I am not persuaded that it is more likely than not that one of the 
Mr Ss relatives intercepted his card and PIN.
Im also mindful that Mr Ss bank statements show that he used his card most days. Hed 
last used it just three days prior to contacting Lloyds to request replacements. Weve asked 
Mr S about his wider circumstances, especially as he told the bank he was no longer living at 
his address. But Mr S has not made us aware of any reason why he may struggle to 
remember his PIN. In addition, the banks technical records do not show any transactions 
were attempted with an incorrect PIN number before Mr S contacted the bank to request a 
new PIN. 
Mr S has said there is no proof that he made these transactions himself so its not fair to hold 
him responsible for them. But Mr S doesnt have to make the withdrawals personally to be 
held responsible for them under the relevant rules. He can still be held liable for them if the 
available information suggests its more likely than not the transactions happened because 
he allowed them to be made. Having considered the possible options for how these 
transactions could have happened, I dont think I can be as sure as I would need to be to say 
that Mr S wasnt involved. 
As I consider, on balance, that Mr S, or someone with his knowledge or authority carried out 
the withdrawals, it follows that I think Lloyds is entitled to hold him liable for them. 
Customer service
Ive carefully considered everything Mr S has told us about the customer service he 
received. Mr S complained that Lloyds led him to believe that if he provided it with a crime reference 
number, the funds would be credited back into his account. Lloyds accepted that Mr S had 
been provided with misleading information during this call, and his expectations hadnt been 
correctly managed. On that basis Lloyds offered Mr S £100 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused.
Lloyds also acknowledged that Mr S should have been given 10 working days notice before 
it re-debited the funds from his account. It amended the report made to Mr Ss credit file to 
ensure that Mr Ss credit file reports accurately. 
I think the actions taken by Lloyds are fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Account closure 
Mr S is also concerned that Lloyds decided to close his account. But the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ss account outline that the bank is entitled to close the account at any time 
on giving two months notice; and in some circumstances, it could do so without notice. 
So, whilst I understand Mr Ss frustration, I cant say Lloyds did anything wrong when it gave 
him 60 days notice of its intention to close his account.
Lloyds has further explained that Mr S had already being told in January 2019 that any 
accounts opened by him would be closed immediately. So, I think Lloyds was fair to Mr S by 
giving him prior notice of its intention to close his account, given the wider circumstances 
and previous breakdown of the banking relationship. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I think Lloyds has already made a fair offer of 
compensation. So my final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must pay Mr S £100 if it hasnt 
done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman