DRN-2957061
The complaint
Miss H complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with her transfer request.
What happened
Miss H says she wrote a number of letters to Barclays asking it to transfer £8,000 to an 
account she held with a different bank. She says Barclays says it didnt receive some of the 
letters and wouldnt transfer the money. She also says Barclays hasnt confirmed that it has 
cancelled her request and says the language in its letters was unclear. Miss H says Barclays 
ought to be able to transfer money in this way as its done in the past and says her 
telephone may be tapped, so is uncomfortable using telephone banking.
Barclays says it didnt receive some of Miss Hs letters and says it isnt responsible for the 
safe delivery of mail. It says it followed its security policy by wishing to speak to Miss H 
before transferring a large amount of money and says it has a duty to protect its customers 
money. Barclays says it did confirm the transfer would not be carried out.
Miss H brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclays has a duty to protect customers money and is entitled to have security 
policies. The investigator thought Barclays had told Miss S the transfer was in effect 
cancelled and didnt think Barclays responsible for the lost letters or that we could tell it to 
change its procedures about these matters.
Miss H doesnt accept that view and maintains that she had enough identity evidence for 
Barclays to process the transfer and questions why it couldnt check her identity with the 
other bank,
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss H will be disappointed by my decision and I also appreciate how strongly 
she feels about this complaint having read her letters to us.
I make clear to Miss H that we are not Barclays regulator and so its not our role to tell it 
what its security and fraud process should be. I am sure Miss H appreciates that fraud is a 
major problem for banks and building societies and they must have measures in place to 
protect their and their customers money. I appreciate that on occasions legitimate 
customers are caused inconvenience by going through additional security steps. But I dont 
think Barclays has acted unfairly here by telling Miss H it wished to speak to her before 
authorising the transfer. And whilst I appreciate Miss H says her telephone may be tapped, I 
am sure by authorising her payment by telephone, that is unlikely to affect her account 
security, even if her telephone was tapped.
Im satisfied that Barclays has confirmed to Miss H in its final response letter that the transfer 
hasnt be authorised and so I think she has been told that the transfer will not go through. 
And for the reasons I have explained think its up to Barclays to decide what authority it 
needs from its customers about such matters and I wouldnt expect it to have spoken to Miss 
Hs other bank. 
I appreciate Miss H wrote a number of letters to Barclays and Im sure she was concerned 
not to receive a response and to later discover the letters hadnt arrived at Barclays. I dont 
know what happened, but I hope Miss H appreciates I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible 
for the loss of the letters as its not responsible for the safe delivery of the mail.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays has dealt fairly with this complaint and so I cant ask it to do 
anything further in the circumstances of it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman