DRN-3932310
The complaint
Mr K complains about Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) poor service, 
following his claim under his home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr Ks boiler broke down and he contacted RSA to make a claim. During the claims 
assessment, Mr K was asked to confirm the age of the boiler but was unable to do so as he 
was unaware of his boilers age. RSA told Mr K that because he was unaware of the boilers 
age, he would be charged a call out fee, for an engineer to attend.
RSA further explained that if the boiler was found to be under 15 years of age, then the 
funds would be refunded to him. And if the boiler was over 15 years further charges would 
be levied. RSA explained that this was due to the policy that Mr K held with them. 
Mr K confirmed to RSA that he had a young family at home, with no heating or hot water. 
RSA explained that it would find an engineer and call him back once one was found. 
Mr K said that a few hours later, he received a call from RSA, who informed him that it had 
located an engineer and the earliest time that the engineer could attend was the next day. 
Mr K was unhappy with this as he believed that RSA were not categorising his claim as an 
emergency. So, he raised a complaint and declined the use of RSAs engineer. 
Mr K said that he found an independent engineer who attended and ultimately replaced his 
boiler. He also felt that RSA had not called him back with an update sooner, had failed to 
provide him with a clear cost upfront, that the advisor wasnt sympathetic to his situation and 
the engineer appointment offered wasnt within a reasonable timeframe. 
Mr K wanted RSA to reimburse him, the costs of the independent engineer of £85, as well as 
compensation for the poor service he said he received. 
In its final response, RSA explained that Mr K was unsure of his boilers age, and this 
wouldve had an effect on his claim. It explained that the claim wouldnt be rejected but costs 
would have to be reserved, to cover the engineers call out charges. It said that it was unable 
to provide a cost as this was dependent on the engineer who was allocated the job. Further, 
it wasnt able to provide an engineer imminently (as Mr K wanted) but did so within 24 hours, 
as per the policy terms and conditions.
It also said that if Mr K were able to provide evidence that his boiler was under 15 years old, 
then it would look to consider the costs he incurred, with the intention of reimbursement. 
Ultimately, it declined his complaint.  
Mr K was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that he 
didnt find that RSA had handled his claim poorly. He said that RSA gave Mr K the correct 
information as per the policy terms and conditions. He said that the timeframe that Mr K was 
given by RSA wasnt unreasonable. So, he concluded that RSA handled Mr Ks claim at a 
satisfactory level. 
RSA accepted the view Mr K did not. Mr K said that the view didnt take into consideration 
about his young family or that it was the middle of winter, and he was without heating and 
hot water. He said that what wouldve happened had he not had the financial means to pay 
for the call out? That the timescales that RSA used, for what should be classed as an 
emergency were unacceptable. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr K, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Mr K held a home emergency policy with RSA. His boiler broke down and he made a claim. 
Mr K complaint is that RSA shouldve been more clearer regarding costs, RSA failed to 
consider his personal circumstances and there was no definition of emergency within the 
policy terms and conditions, which meant that RSA could do what it wanted regarding the 
timescales of sending out an engineer, which was unacceptable to Mr K. 
Mr K would like his costs reimbursed, as he paid for an independent engineer to carry out 
repairs on his boiler, which totalled £85. He would also like compensation for the poor 
service. I have had a look at the points that Mr K has raised to see if RSA was fair and 
reasonable in its handling of his claim. In addition, I have considered the comments by RSA 
as well as the policy terms and conditions. 
I am satisfied that Mr K had issues with his boiler, I am also satisfied that RSA accepted his 
claim. Mr K said that the agent who initially took details from him and carried out the 
assessment of his claim wasnt sympathetic to his personal circumstances. Ive had a listen 
to a copy of the call recording, which lasted around 18 minutes. 
I note that the agent considered the fact that Mr K had a young family. I say this as during 
the call (after Mr K had disclosed that he had a young family and was without heating and 
hot water) the agent took steps to locate a suitable engineer. Unfortunately, she was unable 
to find an engineer and informed Mr K that she would continue to source an engineer and 
that he would receive a call back once one was located. 
Further, the call handler provided the correct information regarding what was covered and 
what wasnt covered under the policy. She told Mr K that boilers over the age of 15 years 
wouldnt be covered under the policy. 
Having reviewed the policy terms and conditions, it clearly states this to be the case: 
Section 7  Primary Heating System What is Excluded? 1. Boilers that are over 15 years old 
or over 238,000 btu net input (70 Kilowatt).  This was then further confirmed in RSAs, final 
response, were it said that even if the boiler had been over 15 years of age (As Mr K was 
unaware of its actual age), it still wouldve come out and aided Mr K. Consequently, I cant 
agree that RSA were unreasonable or unfair in applying the policy terms and conditions to Mr Ks claim, as we would expect it to do. Nor can I say that it wasnt empathetic to Mr Ks 
needs. 
I note that in the policy terms and conditions, Mr K couldve purchased or hired temporary 
heaters and RSA wouldve contributed towards this purchase, but Mr K chose not to do so.
I have next considered the timescales and whether there is any definition of emergency 
within the policy terms and conditions. Mr K said that a delay of around 9 hours before he 
was called was unacceptable. He said that the call out couldve taken up to 32 hours before 
RSA sent an engineer. 
I accept that there is no actual definition of emergency within the policy terms and 
conditions. But the terms and conditions do clearly state that once a claim has been 
accepted, RSA has 24 hours to locate and send an engineer to carry out a temporary repair: 
If your claim is accepted, we ask that you allow for the contractor to attend your home 
within 24 hours of the claim being reported to us. So, Ive had a look at the brief timeline of 
events. 
Mr K contacted RSA to make the claim and on the same day the claim was accepted. Later 
in the afternoon, RSA contacted Mr K again and confirmed that it had now located a suitable 
engineer who would attend the next day, on an all-day appointment basis. I have listened to 
the call between RSA and Mr K, in which the agent tells Mr K about the engineers 
availability. I note that it was in this call, that Mr K refused the services of the engineer and 
raised a complaint. 
The policy doesnt provide for specific appointment times. But given that RSA has said that it 
works on the basis of the engineers availability, and that the engineers often provide all-day 
slots, to ensure that they can attend as many call outs as possible, I cant agree that a next 
day appointment, was unreasonable. And Im satisfied that RSA followed the policy terms.
Ive next considered whether RSA ought to reimburse Mr Ks costs of his independent 
engineer. The policy specifically excludes cover for boilers over 15 years of age. Mr K said 
that he was unaware of the boilers age. But despite this, RSA said that if Mr K was able to 
show that the boiler was under 15 years old, then it would consider reimbursing those costs, 
on production of the invoice and proof of the boilers age. 
Mr K has not provided the required proof, so Im satisfied that RSA was fair and reasonable 
to offer to reimburse his costs that he incurred once the proof had been obtained. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr K will be, Im 
satisfied that RSA handled his claim fairly. I think it was reasonable in its offer to reimburse 
Mr Ks costs on production of the invoice and proof of the boilers age. Accordingly, I cant 
fairly ask RSA to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman