DRN-2740009
The complaint
Mr W complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) treated him unfairly when he withdrew and 
returned cash to his account.
  
What happened
Mr W arranged to withdraw around £20,000 and collect it from a branch of HSBC. When he 
went to the branch, it took over an hour for the cash to be provided. Mr W says this delay 
caused him to lose out on buying a car. And when he went to the branch the next day to 
return and deposit the cash, there was a delay in HSBC accepting it into his account.
HSBC accepted it should have been clearer with Mr W about how long it would take to count 
and check the withdrawal. It offered £25 compensation. But it said there was no error when 
he returned the next day as it had to follow anti-money laundering procedures.
Mr W referred his complaint to this service. HSBC increased its offer to £75. The investigator 
thought that was fair. Mr W disagreed. He thought HSBC should explain why there was a 
delay completing the withdrawal.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws complaint has focused on the withdrawal delay, rather than the return and deposit, 
so Ill do the same.
I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr W called HSBC and agreed to collect the money from a branch later that day. 
HSBC says the arrangements it made didnt leave the branch with enough time to 
prepare for the withdrawal. This is consistent with Mr Ws recollection that the branch 
staff werent aware of the withdrawal when he arrived.
HSBC told Mr W to expect a wait of five to ten minutes in branch  but it took over an 
hour. He says he missed out on the opportunity to buy a car during that time.
Mr W would like to know why there was a delay. He doesnt understand why it took 
over an hour to count and check the withdrawal. But I dont think its necessary to 
understand the cause of the delay to resolve this complaint fairly.
HSBC accepts its made an error and thats caused Mr W trouble and upset. It gave 
him the impression he could withdraw his money in a matter of minutes and it turned 
out to be over an hour. HSBC says it should have been clearer with Mr W about the 
timescales involved when withdrawing cash from the branch. I agree.
I know Mr W thinks the branch ought to have been quicker, regardless of the time it 
was given to prepare. But even if thats so, the impact on him would still have been 
an unexpected wait of around an hour and losing out on the chance to buy a car.
Im satisfied £75 is reasonable compensation for this impact in the circumstances.
Although it would have been inconvenient for Mr W, given the amount of cash 
involved, I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to ask him some questions 
about the money and its origin when he asked to deposit it. I understand this was 
soon resolved when he explained hed taken it out the day before but hadnt used it 
as hed expected to.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require HSBC to pay £75 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman