DRN-4059623
The complaint
Mr R has a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with James Hay Administration Company 
Ltd trading as James Hay Partnership.  Mr R invested in an arrangement HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) has since challenged. Mr Rs complaint is that James Hay should not 
have allowed that investment in its SIPPs.
What happened
In 2013 Mr R applied for a SIPP with James Hay.  He applied to transfer an existing pension 
to James Hay with a value of around £50,000 and he arranged for a further lump sum 
payment to be made to his new SIPP when he applied for it.  
Shortly before this Mr R bought shares in a company which was part of an investment 
arrangement I will refer to as the Scheme.  He bought shares at £1 each.  This was funded 
largely by a limited recourse loan which was part of the Scheme.    
Shortly after the SIPP was opened Mr R arranged for James Hay to buy the shares from him 
using the funds in his SIPP.  James Hay paid £1 per share meaning over £50,000 was paid 
out of the SIPP to Mr R.
Mr R is an independent financial adviser (IFA), and he named his own firm as his financial 
adviser on the SIPP application form. Soon after this Mr Rs firm became an appointed 
representative of a firm I will refer to as Mr Rs new principal firm.  Before this Mr Rs firm 
had been an appointed representative of a different principal which I will refer to as the old 
principal firm.) 
Soon after Mr Rs SIPP was set up and the transfer value received from his old pension an 
IFA at the firm that was about to become Mr Rs new principal firm applied to James Hay, on 
behalf of Mr R, to buy his shares in the Scheme.
Before agreeing to buy the shares James Hay required a Unquoted Shares Questionnaire 
and a Statement of Self-Certified Sophisticated Investors to be completed and signed by 
Mr R.
On the Questionnaire Mr R was, amongst other things, asked how he had found out about 
the opportunity to buy the shares.  Mr R answered, My IFA.
On the Sophisticated Investor Self-Certification document Mr R added the following:
I have been an IFA for the last [number of years given] and fully understand the 
unquoted shares being purchased.
This represents less than 6% of my overall wealth. 
James Hay bought the shares on behalf of the SIPP at £1 per share meaning over £50,000 
was paid out of the pension to Mr R.  At the time Mr R was less than 55 years old.
This arrangement was later challenged by HMRC as an unauthorised payment out of the 
SIPP and, as I understand it, Mr R has been in negotiation with HMRC about the amount 
due and arrangements for payment.
Mr R complained to James Hay that it had bought the shares without first carrying out 
adequate due diligence checks.  It did not uphold his complaint.  Mr R then referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Rs complaint.  She thought the complaint should not 
be upheld.  She made several points including:
Mr R is an IFA.  His firm is listed as the adviser on the SIPP application.  He signed a 
document to say he understood and was comfortable with the risks involved.
Mr Rs own professional qualifications meant he would have had a good 
understanding of pension legislation and the circumstances that would make a 
payment unauthorised and the tax implications of such payments.  
Mr R sold the shares to his SIPP for £1 each releasing his pension funds to him and 
therefore withdrawing more than 25% of his fund without incurring an immediate tax 
liability.  Mr R should have been aware that such a transaction might be challenged 
by HMRC.
In all the circumstances it would not be fair to ask James Hay to pay compensation to 
Mr R.
Mr R does not agree with the investigator.  He has made several points including:
Regardless of his professional background it was reasonable for him to assume 
James Hay had carried out adequate due diligence and that it was paying a fair and 
reasonable price for the shares.
He was prepared to accept the risks of investing in unquoted shares understanding 
that they can go up or down in value and could result in a total loss for investment 
reasons.  This is a different matter to James Hay carrying out adequate due 
diligence.
He was advised to buy the shares by his IFA (at what was to become but was not 
yet) his new principal firm.  He paid the adviser for the advice.  And at that time 
Mr Rs firm was still an appointed representative of the old principal firm where he 
was not permitted to advise on unlisted shares, and he did not do so.  If he had been 
knowledgeable and experienced in these matters, he would not have paid his IFA 
£2,000 for his advice.
He had not heard of the Scheme before it was recommended to him by his IFA. 
He should not be held accountable for James Hays lack of due diligence on the 
Scheme before it bought the shares.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions and I have considered all 
that has been said and provided. I will not however respond to all the points that have been 
made, rather I will concentrate on what I consider to be the central issue in this case.
The Scheme in this case was an unusual arrangement.  It involved buying shares largely 
with a limited recourse loan and then selling those shares to the SIPP so that funds were 
paid out of the pension scheme to the investor.  This is, as I have said, an unusual 
arrangement and on closer inspection HMRC was not happy with it.  It said the payment was 
an unauthorised payment and imposed a surcharge and interest.
There are numerous examples of investment schemes that are set up to make use of tax 
concessions which push, with varying amounts of aggression, at the boundaries of the 
purpose of the concession. Sometimes people invest in those schemes without 
understanding there is a risk that HMRC might challenge the scheme.  Sometimes people 
invest in those schemes understanding and accepting the risk HMRC might challenge the 
scheme.  And over recent years, as seen for example with film partnerships, HMRC has 
been more and more active in challenging the schemes it thinks are tax avoidance schemes.
If an investor chooses to invest in a scheme understanding and accepting the risk HMRC 
might challenge their scheme and might impose tax consequences upon them, is it fair and 
reasonable for such an investor to complain later if HMRC does challenge and does impose 
those consequences?  That is, in effect, the issue here because, like the investigator, I 
consider that Mr R, because of his professional knowledge and experience, will have 
realised the Scheme was unusual and was at risk of challenge from HMRC.  Mr R may not 
have invested in unlisted shares before, or advised others to do so, but he was an IFA able 
to advise on pensions and so will have had a good understanding of relevant taxation 
issues, and of the possibility of HMRC questioning a scheme involving unusual features 
such as the Scheme in this case. 
Mr R will have done a number of things when he was weighing up the risks involved.  And 
that will have, or should have, included his own assessment (made in conjunction with his 
IFA) of the Scheme as a whole  not just the share price  set against his professional 
understanding of pension, investment, and taxation matters.  I accept that Mr R may also 
have taken into account the fact that James Hay was prepared to allow members of its 
SIPPs to invest in the Scheme (and previous versions of it).  But does that mean that the risk 
Mr R knew, or should have known, he was taking should fairly and reasonably transfer to 
James Hay?  In my view it does not. 
James Hay was not Mr Rs adviser.  It did not advise him that taking those risks was suitable 
for him. Mr R made that decision for himself, in conjunction with his IFA.  But in my view, in 
determining his complaint against James Hay only, that was a decision Mr R was qualified 
and experienced to reasonably make and it is fair and reasonable that he bears the 
consequences of that decision. 
 
In my view, in the unusual circumstances of Mr Rs case, even if James Hay did not carry 
out adequate due diligence on the Scheme (and I make no finding on that point), it is not fair 
and reasonable to require it to pay compensation to Mr R.  And so, in the particular 
circumstances of his case, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint against James Hay Administration Company Ltd.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman