DRN-2335307
The complaint
Mrs D complains about Gladstone Brookes Limited and the fee they are charging for a 
successful payment protection insurance (PPI) refund she received.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs D asked Gladstone to investigate claims for potential mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) with lender S. Gladstone submitted a Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR) and lender S responded providing details of several accounts that 
contained PPI.
On 16 July, Mrs D signed a Letter of Authority (LOA), authorising Gladstone to submit 
claims to lender S on her behalf for these accounts. One of these accounts related to a store 
card Mrs D held with retailer P. Gladstone submitted this claim on Mrs Ds behalf later that 
month.
In February 2020, lender S upheld this claim and awarded Mrs D a net PPI refund of 
£517.85. Gladstone attempted to invoice Mrs D for the success fee they felt they were 
entitled to from this amount. But Mrs D didnt think Gladstone were fair when doing so, so 
she raised a complaint.
Mrs D didnt think shed authorised Gladstone to pursue a claim against retailer P. And she 
didnt think Gladstone made her reasonably aware they were doing so. She referred to 
Gladstones request for another LOA in February 2020 and she felt this supported her view 
that they shouldnt have made a claim on her behalf. So, she wanted them to waive the 
success fee she was being charged.
Gladstone didnt agree. They explained they did have the necessary authority as the claim 
was made to lender S, who financed the store card with retailer P. And they thought theyd 
Mrs D aware on several occasions that a claim had been made. So, they thought theyd 
acted fairly when charging Mrs D a success fee in line with their terms and conditions. Mrs D 
wasnt happy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She acknowledged why Mrs 
D may have been confused as it wasnt retailer P responding to the claim, but lender S. But, 
crucially, she thought Gladstone had authority to submit claims to lender S. And she thought 
Mrs D had been made aware on phone calls that a claim relating to her store card with 
retailer P was being progressed. So, she thought Gladstone had acted fairly when charging 
their success fee after the claim was successful. And because of this, she didnt think they 
needed to do anything more.
Mrs D didnt agree. She maintained her belief that Gladstone didnt have authority to pursue 
the claim and referred to their request for a new LOA. So, she maintained that the success 
fee shouldnt be payable. As Mrs D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the inconvenience this complaint has caused Mrs D. I recognise 
Mrs D has felt confused at which claims Gladstone were submitting on her behalf. And 
because of this, I can understand why she was concerned when realising she was being 
charged a success fee for the claim against retailer P. But more me to agree Gladstone have 
done something wrong, Id need to see that they had held no authority to pursue the claim. 
Or if they did, that the work they completed had no impact on the claim being successful. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen Mrs D signed a LOA in June 2019 which authorised Gladstone to submit a DSAR 
to lender S. Gladstone did so, and this DSAR returned a number of accounts Mrs D held 
which contained PPI. One of these was Mrs Ds account with retailer P. Following this, Mrs D 
signed a new LOA in July, which authorised Gladstone to submit claims to lender S on her 
behalf.
From what Ive seen, I think the confusion has arose from lender S investigating PPI claims 
generated from store card accounts held with retailer P. I can understand why Mrs D would 
assume that a claim against this store card would need its own LOA. But that isnt the case. 
The finance of this store card was provided by lender S, meaning they were the company 
that would need to respond. And as Mrs D signed a LOA authorising Gladstone to submit 
claims against lender S, I think they had the relevant authority to do so.
Ive also seen that Gladstone wrote to Mrs D on 20 August 2019 explaining the claim relating 
to retailer P had been submitted and acknowledged. Ive also listened to calls Mrs D held in 
July and September 2019 with Gladstone, where she was made aware of Gladstones 
involvement in the claim submitted to lender S about the store card for retailer P. On both 
calls, Mrs D acknowledges Gladstones involvement and raised no concerns about 
Gladstones intentions to proceed. Had Mrs D not wanted Gladstone to continue, I wouldve 
expected her to have raised concerns after this point. But I cant see that she did until the 
claim was successful, and a success fee was charged.
That being said, I understand why Mrs D thinks Gladstones request for a new LOA in 
February suggests that they didnt hold the relevant authority. But, lenders such as lender S 
require new LOAs every six months from companies such as Gladstone. And when 
Gladstone attempted to chase lender S for an update on Mrs Ds claim, this was more than 
six months since Mrs Ds first LOA. But crucially, this doesnt mean Gladstones overall 
authority over the claim ended. 
The requirement for a new LOA every six months is a process set by the lenders 
themselves. It doesnt affect the agreement Mrs D entered into when she signed the LOA 
with Gladstone in July 2019. When Mrs D signed this LOA, she entered into a contractually 
binding agreement with Gladstone and agreed to the terms and conditions of that 
agreement. And the terms and conditions explain that should any cases be upheld, the 
charges of 20%+VAT will be payable. 
Ive seen that Gladstone submitted the claim to lender S in July 2019. And Ive seen that 
lender S provided Gladstone with a copy of their final response upholding the claim in 
February 2020. This satisfies me that the successful claim arose from the claim Gladstone 
submitted. And that lender S recognised Gladstone as Mrs Ds representative for the claim. Because of this, I think Gladstone have acted fairly and in line with their terms and 
conditions when invoicing Mrs D for their success fee. So, I dont think they need to do 
anything further.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs D was hoping for. But I hope it provides some clarity 
on the work Gladstone were authorised to undertakes and removes any concern she has 
surrounding the validity of the invoice she received.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint about Gladstone Brookes 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman