DRN-2116623
The complaint
Ms M complained about an instalment loan she took out with Myjar Limited and said this was 
unaffordable for her. 
What happened
Ms M took out a Myjar loan for £275 in August 2019 which she was due to repay in three 
instalments  the highest monthly repayment was around £140. 
Ms M complained that the loan was unaffordable for her from the start and says Myjar 
wouldve realised this if it had checked properly before providing the loan to her. 
The loan hasnt yet been paid.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Ms M and Myjar told us about this loan. Our 
adjudicator didnt think that it wouldve been proportionate for Myjar to have asked Ms M for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. Or that there was 
anything in the information Ms M provided, or the information Myjar shouldve been aware of, 
which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Ms M was saying.  
So our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. Shes mainly 
unhappy that another similar complaint has been upheld and she has sent us bank 
statements in support of this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Myjar provided Ms M with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use so it needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Ms M could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Ms Ms income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint. 
Before lending to Ms M, Myjar asked her for information about her financial situation, such 
as her monthly income and outgoings. It also asked about any other loans she had to pay 
and carried out credit checks. 
Myjar says it agreed to Ms Ms application after carrying out all the proper checks. And it 
relied on information Ms M provided about her monthly income and expenditure as well as 
information obtained from a credit reference agency. Myjar said that the information it 
recorded for Ms M showed that the loan was affordable for her. 
This was Ms Ms first loan with Myjar. It wasnt an especially big loan compared to her take 
home pay and she planned to repay it quite quickly. So I think Myjar could reasonably rely 
on information Ms M provided. 
I think, looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan term, and taking into 
account the information it seems Ms M told Myjar about her monthly income and what she 
was paying out, this repayment amount looked comfortably affordable for Ms M. 
And I havent seen anything in the information that Myjar gathered about Ms M that makes 
me think it shouldve realised that Ms M was going to find it difficult to afford to pay this loan 
in a sustainable way. 
Im sorry that Ms M has found it hard making the loan repayments. I accept that in reality 
Ms Ms actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the information she 
provided, or the other information Myjar obtained. 
But Myjar was entitled to decide Ms Ms lending application based on the information it had 
available at the time. I dont think it was unreasonable for Myjar to lend without making any 
more detailed enquiries into her circumstances as there wasnt anything obvious, in the 
information it had, to suggest Ms M wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way.
So I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Myjar to ask Ms M to prove what she 
was declaring or check other information sources to verify what she had told them (or 
omitted to say) about her financial circumstances. This means I wouldnt expect Myjar to 
have asked to see her bank statements for instance. And so Myjar wouldnt have known 
about the information these show unless Ms M mentioned this during the application 
process. 
I havent seen anything to make me think that Ms M mentioned her concerns about being 
able to afford this extra borrowing on top of everything else she had to pay when she applied 
to Myjar for this loan. 
For these reasons, I wouldnt reasonably expect Myjar to have had any reason to believe 
that Ms M had money problems and the loan wasnt affordable for her. So I dont think it did 
anything wrong when it provided loan 1 to Ms M.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Ms M has said, 
including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. I appreciate she feels 
strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. 
But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision. 
I can see that one of her concerns now is the amount she still has to pay to clear the balance 
she owes. 
I remind Myjar (or any third party) that it should discuss payment options with Ms M and treat 
her fairly and sympathetically. If Ms M needs further time to pay what she owes Myjar and/or she would like help to sort out 
an agreed payment plan or advice on how to manage her finances theres more information 
about how to get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide her with useful contact 
details if she gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman