DRN-3639410
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) refused to raise an indemnity 
claim under the Direct Debit Guarantee.
What happened
Mr B says that his energy supplier stopped trading after having taken several incorrect 
payments via direct debit. It says Halifax refused to honour the Direct Debit Guarantee as it 
said it was a disagreement between him and the company. Mr B says that the over-
payments have now been refunded, but that Halifax should not have declined his claim as 
the over-payments were not related to a contractual dispute.
Halifax explained that the Direct Debit Guarantee exists to protect customers if a payment is 
taken on the wrong date or for the wrong amount and cant be used to address contractual 
disputes. So it said that it was unable to raise an indemnity claim and clarified that the last 
payment was taken in October 2020 before a new energy supplier started taking payments.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
the information suggested there was a dispute between Mr B and the energy supplier, and 
the Guarantee couldnt be used for that purpose.
Mr B responded to say, in summary, that:
Halifax indirectly discriminated against him as it said it would have sought more 
information to inform its decision had he been willing to be contacted by phone;
He could not see where, in the Guarantee, there is an exemption for when there are 
disputes between a customer and the company;
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B set up the direct debit with the energy company on 14 February 2020 and monthly 
payments of £49.87 were taken until he cancelled it on 15 October 2020. He complained to 
Halifax in March 2022 and wanted the payments refunded under the Direct Debit Guarantee.
Mr B said the property for which the payments were being made was vacant and the direct 
debits should have been around £8. He says he had difficulty getting a response from the 
energy supplier as it had ceased trading, but a legal letter to the owners resulted in a refund.
Ive considered Halifaxs decision to decline Mr Bs claim and the Direct Debit Guarantee. It 
says it protects the consumer if there is an error in the payment of your Direct Debit, for 
instance if a payment is taken on the incorrect date, or the wrong amount is collected. It 
cannot be used to address contractual disputes between you and the billing organisation.
I accept Mr B says this should apply, because the wrong amount was collected, but based 
on the information Ive seen, this was due to a contractual dispute. To clarify, the energy 
company didnt tell Mr B it would collect one amount and collected a higher amount. Rather, 
Mr B did not agree with the companys calculation of the direct debit and, therefore, the 
dispute was contractual in nature.
So, I dont find Halifax was wrong to decline Mr Bs claim on that basis.
With regard to Mr Bs allegation that he was indirectly discriminated against because of his 
request not to be contacted by phone, I dont consider this is something this service can 
consider. As the investigator has said, complaint handling is not a regulated activity, but I 
acknowledge Mr B has requested further confirmation on this.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook defines a complaint as, any oral or 
written expression of dissatisfactionabout the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial 
servicewhich alleges that the complainant has sufferedfinancial loss, material distress or 
material inconvenience.
As a complaint about complaint handling is not a complaint about a financial service, it falls 
outside this services jurisdiction. The relevant case law is R (Mazarona Properties Ltd) v 
Financial Ombudsman Service [2017].
I accept that Mr B says this has caused him stress and worry, but I cant conclude Halifax 
has done anything wrong by declining Mr Bs claim under the Direct Debit Guarantee.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman