DRN-3617088
The complaint
Mr P complains Revolut Ltd unfairly rejected chargeback requests he made, breached his 
personal data, and stopped him accessing funds in his account.
What happened
The background facts which led to Mr Ps complaint are known to both parties and I find no 
need to repeat them in full here. But broadly, Mr P says Revolut:
Failed to raise a chargeback for a rental payment he made to an accommodation 
provider. He says the accommodation didnt meet the description of the property he 
paid for and had various problems, including patches of mold.
Failed to raise a chargeback for a subscription service he couldnt cancel. He says 
the merchant couldnt be contacted.
Blocked his account during the Christmas period, which left him in a very difficult 
situation, where he had to gamble using benefit payments to meet his living costs. He 
also says Revolut failed to allow him to make an external transfer when they agreed 
they would.
Breached his data by replacing his account profile picture with another Revolut 
customer and they didnt reinstate his picture.
Our investigator issued two views on Mr Ps complaint. They upheld his complaint in part. 
They found:
Mr P told Revolut he didnt recognise the payment he made to the accommodation 
provider, but eventually he raised a chargeback claim which showed he knew what 
the payment was for and that he was staying at the accommodation. So, it appears 
Mr P misled Revolut when he first contacted them about the payment.
Revolut werent obliged to raise chargebacks because Mr P wanted them to. They 
needed to ensure the circumstances of each request represented a valid dispute 
under the rules of the chargeback scheme.
Revolut correctly interpreted the chargeback rules when they declined Mr Ps 
chargeback requests. He hadnt cancelled his stay at the accommodation, which was 
required under the relevant chargeback rule. Neither had he cancelled his 
subscription with the merchant which was also required.
Revolut were acting in line with their legal and regulatory responsibilities when they 
blocked his account. They were carrying out a review and they didnt have to disclose 
their reasons to him  but their reasons were legitimate. 
At one point, Mr P was told incorrectly that he should be able to make an external 
transfer when the block was in place. But this didnt mean Revolut should have 
allowed him to make the payment. Neither did Mr P asking to terminate his account 
under the account terms and conditions mean Revolut had to release his money 
before they completed their review.
Revolut explained Mr Ps profile photo was replaced due to a bug which affected a 
number of customers. His account had not been hacked and what happened wasnt 
enough reason to award him compensation.
Revolut gave Mr P contradictory information at times. They said they couldnt offer 
temporary credits when they could, and they had said their chargeback team didnt 
have an email address when they did. £100 was reasonable compensation to make 
up for the frustration Mr P was caused.
Revolut agreed to our investigators recommendation to pay £100. But Mr P believes he 
should receive a larger sum to put matters right. He asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman, so his complaint has been given to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint in part, but I am not going to direct Revolut to pay 
him any more than the £100 our investigator recommended. Ill explain why.
Revoluts block on the account
Revolut have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account 
is opened.
Revolut will review accounts to comply with their responsibilities. And, its common industry 
practice for firms to restrict access to funds without notice to conduct a review - doing so 
helps prevent potential financial loss or other harm that could result if they didnt restrict 
access or if they gave prior warning of what they intended to do. Revolut wouldnt know 
whether to allow Mr P access to the funds until they concluded their review.
Im satisfied Revolut acted in line with their legal and regulatory responsibilities when they 
prevented Mr P accessing the funds in his account. And, I dont find Mr P wanting to 
terminate the account meant Revolut had to release the funds before they completed their 
review. I find their legal and regulatory obligations overriding in these circumstances.
 
Mr P says he was led to believe his account would be unblocked before Christmas. He was 
incorrectly told he should be able to make an external transfer by a Revolut employee during 
a phone call. This was a human error because the block meant he couldnt make transfers, 
which became clear when he again attempted to make another transfer during the call. A 
follow up call was arranged, but he wasnt told the follow up call would definitely result in him 
being able to make an external payment  although its clear Mr P wanted it confirmed this 
way. Instead, he was told the purpose of the follow up call would be to attempt to make an 
external payment. 
So Revolut made an error, but I dont find Mr P being given incorrect information meant they 
had to allow him to make an external payment during the follow up call. Instead I find 
Revolut were able to withhold the funds at that time. Mr P was also told that they hoped the 
review would be completed by a specific date in December, which didnt happen. But I dont 
find this obligated them to release funds to Mr P on that date. I have considered Revoluts 
reasons for not releasing the funds until they did, and I find they are reasonable. 
Mr P started a court claim to get his funds back and says Revolut should foot his legal costs 
and court fees. But I dont find Revolut acted unfairly by blocking his account or that they 
caused undue delay, so I am not holding them responsible for the costs he incurred by 
choosing to commence legal proceedings.
 
Our service is free for complainants to refer complaints to us, and we have not charged Mr P 
for using our service. But our service is entirely separate to the courts, and its for the court 
to decide Mr Ps liability for legal costs that may be part of Revoluts defence or counter 
claim to his claim at court.
The removal of Mr Ps profile picture
Mr P says he should be compensated because another customers profile picture appeared 
on his account, replacing his default picture. It appears the other customers picture was 
removed after Mr P logged out of his account and then logged back on. Certainly, the person 
whose picture it was had their data compromised  but this is not a reason to compensate 
Mr P.
Revolut provided a plausible explanation about what happened, and Im satisfied his account 
wasnt hacked or that his data was stolen. Mr P says Revolut breached his data and 
information rights and I have considered what he has said and the copy of the letter he 
provided from the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). But whether or not Revolut 
breached his personal data by removing and then not reinstating his profile photo, doesnt 
necessarily mean I should award him compensation. While he was annoyed by the error 
which occurred, Revolut quickly assured him the error resulted from a bug and his account 
hadnt been hacked. While Mr P will disagree, I am not persuaded that what happened 
impacted him to the extent that he should reasonably be awarded compensation.
 
Chargebacks
Im satisfied Revolut properly considered Mr Ps request to raise a chargeback for the 
payment he made to stay at the accommodation provider. He said the room he was provided 
didnt meet the description of the property advertisement and it had a variety of issues, and 
the replacement room he was given also had issues. But the chargeback scheme has limited 
scope and isnt there to cover every scenario about poor-quality service provided by a 
merchant. Instead, the circumstances of a dispute must fit the parameters of a valid 
chargeback claim under the relevant card scheme rules.
Mr P referred to section 75 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 in his messages to Revolut. I 
believe Mr P meant to refer to section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, which gives 
consumers a legal right to claim against a credit provider for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services subject to certain requirements. But 
Mr P didnt pay for the accommodation with credit provided by Revolut, so s75 doesnt apply. 
So, Revolut werent obliged to raise a chargeback simply because Mr P wanted them to. 
And, where its clear the circumstances of a dispute dont represent a valid chargeback 
under the rules, its reasonable for them not to present the claim.
Mr P stayed at the accommodation for the full rental period. So, there was no unused portion 
of his stay which followed a cancellation, which is what was required for there to be a valid 
claim under the card scheme rules. Im satisfied Revoluts decision not to submit the claim 
was right and they arent liable for the losses the merchant may have caused Mr P.
Mr P told Revolut the accommodation provider agreed to refund him, but I havent seen 
evidence to show they agreed to refund him for a portion of the rental period to which the payment relates. Instead, the screenshot he submitted of a message from the 
accommodation provider appears to relate to a further rental period. The message indicated 
the accommodation provider hadnt received a full payment for a booking, so the booking 
had been cancelled and Mr P needed to vacate the property that day. It said he would 
receive a partial refund, but I dont find this relates to the payment he wanted charged back.
 
I also find Revolut acted fairly by not submitting Mr Ps chargeback claim for a subscription 
payment. I agree they were right to conclude that Mr P needed to cancel the subscription 
with the merchant. I am not persuaded Mr P wasnt able to contact the merchant given the 
information available online which shows the steps a customer needs to take to try to cancel 
a subscription.
Customer service issues
At one point, Revolut told Mr P that they had no ability to provide temporary credit for the 
chargeback request he made. They also said there was no email address for their 
chargeback team. But this information wasnt accurate, and I understand Mr Ps frustration 
when he received conflicting information. However, Revolut didnt need to give him a 
temporary credit, particularly as he didnt have a valid chargeback claim.
Putting things right
Mr P has referred to redress he received on different complaints he brought to our service. 
But I have decided what I find is fair and reasonable based on the individual circumstances 
of this complaint. I have not based it on the findings of investigators who considered different 
complaints with different factual circumstances.
 
I agree some aspects of the service Mr P received from Revolut ought to have been better, 
such as making sure the information they provided him with was accurate. But I dont find 
the information he submitted demonstrates he should receive more than £100.
 
I find much of the distress Mr P experienced was not the result of errors Revolut made. As I 
have said, I find Revolut did not err when blocking his account or that they had to release his 
funds earlier than they did. And, I find they had good reason to decline the two chargeback 
requests in question. 
I have also borne in mind that a significant element of Mr Ps communication with Revolut 
was his insistence that they provide temporary credits for payments he was disputing, which 
Revolut had the discretion not to provide. He also initially misled Revolut about the payment 
for the accommodation when he raised it as an unknown transaction. So, on, balance, I 
dont find awarding greater compensation would be proportionate in these circumstances.
Subject to Mr P accepting this decision, I direct Revolut to pay him £100 within 28 days of 
his acceptance.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Revolut Ltd must pay him £100 compensation 
according to my direction above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Liam KingOmbudsman