DRN-3956441
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that a portfolio of buy-to-let (BTL) properties mortgaged to Bank of Scotland 
plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (and referred to here as BM) is still in his name, and 
being reported on his credit file where payments are being made late.
To settle the complaint, Mr P wants his name removed from all the properties. Mr P also 
wants BM to acknowledge that it is not him making late payments and to amend his credit 
file accordingly.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to almost a thousand pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr P being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what 
happened quite brief.
In 2006 Mr P took out multiple BTL mortgages with BM (some of which are in joint names). It 
appears that Mr P and the joint owner formed a limited company (APL), with their property 
portfolio being held as an asset of the company.
The crux of the complaint is that Mr P is unhappy that the properties mortgaged to BM are 
still held in his name. 
Mr P says that in 2011 he and the other joint owner (in their capacity as directors of APL) 
entered into a share sale agreement and deed of trust with a company I will call FHL. Ive 
read the terms of the agreement, from which I note that (amongst other things) the following 
terms were agreed:
Mr P undertook to sign any documentation provided by FHL to ensure transfer of the 
interests of APL in the mortgaged properties to FHL;
FHL agreed to arrange at its own expense to complete the registration of any transfer of 
title of each of the properties;
FHL agreed to inform Mr P in writing if the lender of any indebtedness relating to the 
properties in respect of which [Mr P is] liable (whether as principal or guarantor) informs 
[APL or FHL] of any event of default in respect of indebtedness;
FHL agreed to make reasonable efforts to refinance any indebtedness relating to 
properties in Mr Ps name, and to complete such refinancing within six years of the date 
of completion (subject to certain conditions which arent relevant to the complaint); 
FHL agreed to meet with Mr P to discuss such refinancing every two years, at Mr Ps 
request;
FHL and Mr P agreed to use their best endeavours to ensure that monies made 
available for mortgage payments were transferred promptly between the parties to 
ensure payment to the relevant mortgage account.
BM was not a party to this agreement and has confirmed it had no knowledge of it until 
recently.
In March 2014 Mr P was declared bankrupt.
In 2021 Mr P complained to BM that he was still on the mortgage accounts and that arrears 
were being reported on his credit file. In its final response letter BM confirmed that the 
Insolvency Service had confirmed that it still retained an interest in the properties. BM said 
Mr P was still the registered owner of the properties at the Land Registry.
Unhappy with BMs response, Mr P brought his complaint to our service. He says that, after 
his bankruptcy, the Official Receiver (OR) took control of all his assets, but the properties 
that are in his name and subject to a deed of trust are still in his name and he is still classed 
as the owner at the Land Registry. Mr P says that the OR has said that the deed of trust is 
valid, but the OR has no interest in these properties and so can do nothing to resolve the 
issue. However, FHL (the party who purchased his shares in APL) has not been maintaining 
the mortgage repayments, which has had a major impact on his credit profile.
In response to the complaint, BM confirmed that in August 2021, after the Insolvency Service 
confirmed that Mr Ps bankruptcy was discharged in March 2015, his credit file was updated 
to show the mortgage accounts as partially settled, with the balances set to zero.  BM said it 
would note on its records not to contact Mr P, but would retain his correspondence details in 
order to issue any regulatory letters, for example if the properties were taken into 
possession.
However, Mr P wants his name taken off all the properties. Mr P says he cant afford a 
solicitor and so would like our service to help him with this.
An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think BM had done anything wrong. 
She explained to Mr P that the issue appeared to be with FHL not adhering to the terms of 
the agreement entered into in 2011, rather than any error on the part of BM. The investigator 
said that FHL would need to arrange for the properties to be transferred out of Mr Ps name.
Mr P said that this wasnt the point of his complaint. He said that there was still one 
mortgage being reported on his credit file.  Mr P also said that BM had admitted it had made 
mistakes on his credit file as BM knew when hed been discharged from his bankruptcy and 
so should not have reported the incorrect information. The investigator clarified that she had addressed the complaint set out in Mr Ps complaint form, which is that he wanted to be 
removed from the titles to the properties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Mr P; Im not upholding his 
complaint. I give my reasons below.
First, BM was not notified by the OR or by Mr P that his bankruptcy had been discharged in 
2015. The contact notes show that until August 2021 the OR was still claiming an interest in 
the properties, and its correspondence made no mention of any discharge from bankruptcy. 
Its not BMs responsibility to research whether Mr P had been discharged from bankruptcy. 
It was up to the OR or Mr P to let BM know. I am satisfied that BM wasnt told Mr P had been 
discharged from bankruptcy until 4 August 2021.
The complaint Mr P asked us to look at was his dissatisfaction that he remained on the title 
of the properties mortgaged to BM. Because he cant afford a solicitor, Mr P wanted our 
service to help him sort this out. But we dont act for consumers  we are independent of 
both consumers and the businesses they are complaining about.
I dont have any power to order BM to remove Mr P from the mortgage accounts. I also dont 
have any power to order the Land Registry to remove Mr P from the titles to the properties. 
The Land Registry isnt a member of our service, and removal of one party from the title to a 
property is a legal matter which Mr P will need to resolve outside of our service.
It seems to me that the actual problem is that FHL (apparently) failed to abide by the terms 
of the agreement entered into with Mr P in 2011, where FHL had agreed, at its own expense, 
to arrange for the transfers of the properties to it, and the refinancing of the mortgages on 
those properties. Thats not something I can consider, because FHL isnt subject to the rules 
of our service. 
If Mr P considers that FHL is in breach of contract, and Mr P cant persuade FHL to abide by 
the terms of the agreement, then I would suggest he takes legal advice about what he can 
do to remedy this. Im afraid its not something the Financial Ombudsman Service can help 
him with. BM wasnt a party to the agreement, and is not bound by it, so theres no basis on 
which I can find BM should have taken any steps to remove Mr P from the mortgage 
accounts arising from the contract between Mr P and FHL.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr P wanted, but there is no basis on which I can fairly order 
BM to agree to remove Mr P from the mortgage accounts. I also have no power to order the 
Land Registry to remove Mr P from the legal title to the properties.
BM says it has amended Mr Ps credit files to show the mortgages as partially settled as at 
the date of the discharge of his bankruptcy. Mr P has now raised a new issue  which is that 
there is still one mortgage showing on his credit file. Because this is a new complaint, Mr P 
will need to raise this first with BM so that the bank has an opportunity to respond to it. If 
Mr P is unhappy with BMs response, he will be able to bring a complaint to us about this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman