DRN-3444112
The complaint
Mr R complains through his representative that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 
Money lent him money on high cost loans that he was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr R with the following loans:
Date
Loan 1 7/1/2016 £1,500 £118 24 months Settled 
22/8/2017
Loan 2 5/9/2017 £2,000 £158 24 months Settled 
5/10/2017
Loan 3 31/10/2017 £2,450 £245 24 months Settled 
27/4/2018
Loan 4 30/10/2018 £1,000 £78 24 months Debt sold on
Mr R contends through his representative that unaffordable short term lending caused a debt 
spiral, leading to repeat borrowing and a worsening of his financial situation. His debt 
problems were accentuated and made worse to such a degree that he was put in the 
position of having to obtain further high-interest credit from other providers to service the 
loan repayments - which eventually forced him to the point that he had to seek debt advice 
to manage his debts. He has now entered into an IVA (individual voluntary arrangement) to 
service his debts. Mr R has supplied his bank statements from around the time of all four 
loans.
118 118 Money said that its procedures ensured, in line with FCA (Financial Conduct 
Authority) rules, that Mr R as an applicant was creditworthy and could afford the loan he had 
applied for. It has supplied copies of the credit checks it did for all four loans and the 
application data in respect of the forms completed by Mr R. It used standard industry 
verification checks to confirm Mr Rs status and income. It assessed the loans as being 
affordable.
Our adjudicator said that, for loans 1 and 2, the repayments for Mr Rs existing commitments 
plus his new loan repayment represented a significant proportion of his declared monthly 
income. So there was a significant risk that Mr R wouldnt have been able to meet his 
existing commitments without having to borrow again. For loans 3 and 4 she said 118 118 
Money should have carried out a thorough assessment of Mr Rs financial circumstances. 
She thought Mr Rs lending history suggested a pattern of dependency on this type of 
borrowing and that 118 118 Money ought to have realised it was unlikely he wouldve been 
able to sustainably repay the loans. 
118 118 Money asked that the decision regarding loan 1 be referred to an Ombudsman for 
final review. The reason is because there were three loans that all had less than three 
payments remaining and therefore, it would be unfair to include these payments into Mr Rs 
ongoing commitments as they would not be ongoing. In addition, the first loan was for 
consolidation and as such, was enough to settle all of the loans outstanding.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr R would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr R would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Rs ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that 118 118 Money had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr R undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr R. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
118 118 Money has asked for an Ombudsmans decision regarding loan 1 only. This means 
that it accepts the adjudicators view concerning loans 2,3 and 4. So I wont maker any 
further comment about those loans, but will make directions accordingly.
loan 1
This loan was said to be for debt consolidation. And I note that Mr R paid off loans which 
according to the credit report had outstanding balances of respectively £221, £479 and £90 
(the balances were slightly more at the time of repayment). However those loans only had 
£1 payments allocated to them in the credit report. So effectively they were not included in 
the credit commitments. Mr R had three other loans with a combined repayment of £376. 
Whilst he may have been able to pay those off within two or three months, 118 118 Money 
could have ensured they were fully paid off out of the loan monies before issuing the balance 
of the loan monies to him. Its clear from his bank statements that he was continuing to take 
out loans, had done so for the three months preceding loan 1 and the month after it.
Mr Rs income was said to be £1,100 but it would appear from his statements that this 
fluctuated below that by £100 or £200 and would have been the maximum figure for around 
this time. More concerning is that his application gave a figure of £50 for monthly 
expenditure apart from credit commitments. This was clearly a gross underestimate  the 
bank statements show he was just about earning enough not to go into overdraft but that 
doesnt take account of monies he received from loans. He had travel expenses, tv and 
gaming subscriptions and took out large sums in cash (e.g. in December 2015, £240) and 
Ive noted a payment in of £240 from a betting company.
Ive noted that 118 118 Money wouldnt have seen this information as it didnt see Mr Rs 
bank statements. But my view is that it should have been alerted to carry out a more 
thorough assessment of Mr Rs income and outgoings. This was in light of the fact that he 
had taken out several high cost loans in the months before the application and in light of his 
very low declared expenses. If it had carried out such an assessment I think it would have 
noted a pattern of reliance on payday and high cost loans. This reliance continued and led 
Mr R into taking out the further loans with 118 118 Money and other companies.
So I dont think that 118 118 Money made a fair lending decision. 
Putting things right
Mr  R has had the capital sum in respect of each of the loans and its fair for these sums to 
be repaid, I should warn Mr R and his representatives that the supervisor of his IVA has 
asked that, under the terms of the IVA, any redress be paid to that company rather than 
directly to Mr R. In respect of the four loans. 118 118 Money should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loans 1,2,3 and 4..
Treat any payments made by Mr R as payments respectively towards the capital 
amounts of £1,500, £2,000, £2450 and £1,000.
If Mr R has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8%* simple 
interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.If reworking Mr Rs loan accounts results in there being an outstanding capital balance 
118 118 Money should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr R.
Remove any adverse information, if appropriate, about loans 1,2,3 and 4 from Mr Rs 
credit file.
As 118 118 Money sold the outstanding debt on loan 4 to a third-party it should do what 
it can to buy it back - if it cant then it cant deduct any outstanding balance from the 
redress and it needs to work with the third-party to bring about the steps above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money to 
take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken 
off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman