DRN-3857748
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance, wont refund to him the money that he paid for some holiday club membership 
points. Hes being represented in his complaint by a legal adviser.
What happened
Mr S and his wife signed a purchase agreement in June 2009 to buy some holiday club 
membership points. The purchase price was £6,900 and Mr S also entered into a credit card 
agreement with Barclays Partner Finance for credit that he used to pay for the membership. 
The credit agreement said that the purchase wouldnt be charged to his account for six 
months. Barclays Partner Finance says that the credit was repaid in December 2009.
Mr S wrote to Barclays Partner Finance in December 2020 and said that it appeared that the 
credit intermediary wasnt permitted or authorised to arrange loans and he asked it to explain 
its position. He also asked it to provide evidence of what checks were undertaken 
concerning his loan and its suitability for him.
Barclays Partner Finance didnt provide a substantive response to Mr S so he complained to 
this service. His representative wrote to this service in August 2021 and said, in summary 
and amongst other things, that Barclays Partner Finance hadnt been able to provide 
evidence that the holiday company had the requisite licence need to arrange the loan, the 
membership was misrepresented to Mr S, there was an unfair relationship between Mr S 
and Barclays Partner Finance, there was no evidence that a credit check was conducted 
before the loan was granted and the high interest rate was an indication of an unfair 
relationship.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He said that 
allegations of misrepresentation and an unfair relationship under sections 75 and 140A of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 are legal claims and dont constitute complaints that this 
service can consider until the claims have been put to the business responsible for 
answering them and a subsequent complaint has then been made about its response to the 
claims. He said that neither of those steps was taken by Mr S or his representative so the 
only aspects of this complaint that he could consider were about the authorisation of the 
credit broker and the credit checks carried out at the time of sale. 
He said that that the holiday company held a licence granted by the Office of Fair Trading at 
the time of sale so the credit agreement was arranged by an authorised broker. He also said 
that he hadnt seen anything persuasive to suggest that the lending was unaffordable for 
Mr S.
Mr Ss representative, on his behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It has responded in detail and says, in summary and amongst other things, 
that:
Mr Ss December 2020 letter doesnt make direct reference to sections 75 or 140A 
but the issues raised query the relationship between Barclays Partner Finance and 
the holiday company in order to identify whether the loan constituted an unfair 
relationship and was therefore unlawful and it cant be denied that Mr S intended to 
raise issues pertaining to sections 75 and 140A;
the ombudsman service isnt required to follow the relevant law, guidance and 
practice but to reach an evaluative assessment of the merits of Barclays Partner 
Finances decision; 
even if the holiday company had a consumer credit authorisation, it was exercised to 
induce Mr S and his wife into an agreement through misrepresentation by 
intentionally giving them the impression that the agreement would provide them with 
a product which was grossly exaggerated in quality above what they actually 
received; and
finance companies shouldnt be allowed to absolve themselves of liability for their 
agents pursuant to section 75.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S first raised his concerns about the authorisation of the credit intermediary and the credit 
checks that were conducted with Barclays Partner Finance in December 2020. I consider 
that Mr S was asking Barclays Partner Finance to explain its position about the authorisation 
of the credit intermediary and the credit checks that it conducted. I dont consider that his 
letter would properly be considered to be a complaint and there was no reference in that 
letter to the holiday club membership points, any mis-selling or any claim under the 
Consumer Credit Act.
Barclays Partner Finance didnt provide a substantive response to that letter but I consider it 
to be clear that the only issues that Mr S had raised were that it appeared that the credit 
intermediary recorded on his credit card agreement wasnt permitted or authorised to 
arrange the credit and about the credit checks that it had conducted.
The holiday company was shown on the credit agreement as being the retailer and Ive seen 
no evidence to show that it didnt also act as the credit intermediary  so I consider it to be 
more likely than not that the holiday company arranged the credit. This services records 
show that the holiday company was covered under our consumer credit jurisdiction in June 
2009. It wouldnt have been covered under that jurisdiction if it hadnt been granted a 
consumer credit licence by the Office of Fair Trading. I dont consider that its unreasonable 
for me to conclude, in the absence of any persuasive evidence to suggest otherwise, that its 
more likely than not that the holiday company held the required consumer credit licence at 
the time that the credit was made available to Mr S and that the credit agreement is likely to 
be enforceable.
Mr S asked Barclays Partner Finance to provide evidence of what checks were undertaken 
concerning his loan and its suitability for him. It didnt provide that evidence to him. The 
credit was made available to Mr S in June 2009 and Barclays Partner Finance has provided 
evidence to show that the credit was repaid in December 2009, less than six months later. 
Ive not been provided with any evidence to show that the credit wasnt affordable for Mr S at 
the time that it was made available to him. Ive also seen no evidence to show that Mr S 
asked Barclays Partner Finance for any information about its credit checks before December 
2020, about eleven years after the credit was repaid. I consider that it would be reasonable 
to expect him to have raised any concerns about the credit checks or the affordability of the 
credit before then.I dont consider that Mr S asked Barclays Partner Finance to consider claims under sections 
75 or 140A or that Barclays Partner Finance has had a proper chance to investigate the 
claims that were made in his representatives complaint letter to this service in August 2021. 
In these circumstances, I consider that Mr Ss claims, including the claims in his 
representatives letter to this service about a lengthy and pressurised sales presentation, the 
membership being misrepresented to Mr S and his wife, the unfair relationship between Mr S 
and Barclays Partner Finance and the high interest rate that was payable, should first be 
properly made to Barclays Partner Finance. If Mr S isnt satisfied with its response to those 
claims (or if Barclays Partner Finance doesnt respond to the claims within eight weeks) he 
may then be able to make a separate complaint to this service about its response to those 
claims. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the holiday company didnt 
have the required licence to arrange the credit for Mr S or that the credit wasnt affordable for 
him at the time that it was made available to him. I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
in these circumstances for me to require Barclays Partner Finance to refund to Mr S any of 
the money that hes paid under the credit agreement, to pay him any compensation or to 
take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman