DRN-3838397
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined 
their claim for damage to their property, which they believe should be covered under their 
home insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr and Mrs N contacted LV to say they had rainwater coming through the 
flat felt roof on the extension of their property following a storm. They shared some 
photographs of the roof and said the roof had been there since they moved into the property 
in 2007. LV thought the roof showed signs of wear and tear and said the damage wouldnt 
be covered under the terms and conditions of their policy. Mr N then said the damage had 
been caused when hed put his foot through the roof and asked whether hed be covered 
under the accidental damage section of their policy. So, LV sent a surveyor to assess the 
damage.
The surveyor said the flat roof was at the end of its natural life cycle. They said there were 
visible cracks in the roof which would have allowed water to penetrate and weaken the roofs 
structure. LV declined the claim saying the felt roof was suffering from severe wear and tear 
damage. It said that if Mr N had put his foot through the roof, it wouldnt have caused any 
damage had the roof not already have been suffering from wear and tear. LV noted that it 
had given Mr and Mrs N conflicting information about whether the claim had been upheld or 
not and offered them £75 by way of an apology for that poor service. Mr and Mrs N remained 
unhappy so approached this service.
Our investigator thought LV had acted fairly. He was satisfied there were storm conditions on 
the date the damage was said to have happened, and he was satisfied the damage was 
consistent with damage caused by storm conditions. But he didnt think the storm was the 
main cause of the damage as he thought it was more likely caused by wear and tear. And 
while Mr and Mrs N had accidental damage cover, he didnt think the damage had been 
caused by a sudden event, but instead had occurred gradually. Our investigator thought LV 
had progressed the claim without any unreasonable delays and said the £75 it had paid for 
the miscommunication was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs N didnt agree with the investigators view and the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision. They said theyd paid for additional accidental cover on their 
policy and they didnt think there were any reasonable grounds for LV to decline their claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs N contacted LV they first said the damage to the roof had been caused by 
storm conditions about two weeks beforehand. As our investigator explained, when we look 
at storm damage cases we ask three main questions:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If the answer to all of these questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of above questions is no the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
Mr and Mrs Ns policy doesnt define what it means by storm conditions. But having looked 
at the weather reports at the time the damage was said to have happened, I can see the 
maximum wind gust was 49mph, with accompanying heavy rain. And Im satisfied this 
constitutes storm conditions. So, I can answer yes to issue one.
I can also answer yes to issue two. Strong winds of this nature and heavy rainfall can 
damage property by lifting felt and allowing water to penetrate, so Im satisfied the damage 
claimed in this instance is consistent with damage typically caused by a storm. 
I now need to consider whether the storm was the main cause of the damage in this 
instance. LV noted cracking in the felt when Mr and Mrs N first sent photographs. And when 
they called LV, Mr and Mrs N also said they could see lots of cracks and noted that the felt 
was completely off on one side. The surveyor appointed by LV said there were visible cracks 
around the area where the hole had developed. They said the roof had reached the end of 
its natural life and, over time, the cracks would have allowed water to penetrate through the 
felt and made the area soft and pliable as the structure starts to weaken. The surveyor didnt 
think there was any evidence of damage caused by storm or any other insurable peril. 
Ive reviewed the evidence from the surveyor and Im satisfied their inspection was 
adequate. Theyve taken a number of photographs of the relevant areas of the roof and of 
the internal spaces damaged by rainwater - and I think these help to support their findings. 
For example, the photographs support their view that the flat felt roof is aged and visibly 
deteriorating. I also note the roof was there when Mr and Mrs N moved into the property in 
2007, so it was at least 14 years old at the time of the incident. Flat felt rooves like this are 
known to deteriorate over time and I note LV have said the lifespan is usually between 8 and 
15 years. To my mind, the photographs clearly show the poor condition of the roof felt. And 
so, taken together, I think it was fair for LV to say the damage was more likely to have been 
caused by wear and tear, rather than by storm conditions. It seems to me that the damage to 
the roof was already present when the bad weather began and the strong winds and heavy 
rainfall simply highlighted the damage that was already there.
Mr and Mrs Ns policy doesnt cover anything which happens gradually including 
deterioration or wear and tear, settlement or shrinkage. And, with all of this in mind, Im 
unable to answer yes to storm issue three. So, I think it was reasonable for LV to decline 
Mr and Mrs Ns claim for storm damage. But I also need to consider whether it was fair for 
LV to decline their claim for accidental damage.
Additional accidental damage cover
Mr and Mrs N believe LV should accept their claim under the additional accidental damage 
section of their policy. Mr N says he went onto the extension roof to clear up the puddles and 
to put new felt across the edge. And hed put this foot through the felt and made a hole. LV 
said Mr N hadnt mentioned his foot going through the roof until it had declined his claim for 
storm damage. LV thought this was significant damage that Mr N should have mentioned 
earlier in the conversation, and I too find it surprising he didnt mention this when he first 
spoke to LV. Nevertheless, LV considered Mr and Mrs Ns claim under the accidental damage section of their policy. But its view was that the damage wouldnt have happened 
had there been no wear and tear, so the claim was caught by the same exclusion as applied 
to the storm damage. 
Mr and Mrs Ns policy defines accidental damage as damage caused suddenly by external 
means which is not expected and not deliberate. Their policy also says the additional 
accidental damage cover excludes any loss or damage shown as not insured elsewhere in 
the policy. This means that any exclusion found in other sections of their policy will also 
apply to the additional accidental damage section. So, the general exclusion of anything 
which happens gradually, including deterioration or wear and tear, is also excluded under 
the accidental damage section. 
Mr and Mrs N say their policy doesnt say their roof has to be in perfect condition. And while 
thats true, it does exclude anything that happens gradually, so I think its fair for LV to 
consider whether thats a factor in any claim thats made. And, in this case, it concluded it 
was a significant factor, as Ive outlined above. On balance, Im more persuaded by the 
surveyors report that the roof had deteriorated and had reached the end of its natural life 
cycle. And so, I think it was fair for LV to say the damage Mr N says he caused when he 
went onto the roof wouldnt have happened but for the wear and tear. In essence, the wear 
and tear had already weakened the roof to such an extent that Mr N was able to put his foot 
through the roof when he shouldnt otherwise have been able to.
Other issues
LV has accepted it confused matters by giving Mr and Mrs N some wrong information about 
whether their claim had been upheld or not and what repairs had been authorised. Its 
apologised for that poor service and paid £75. I can understand how that confusion would 
have added to an already stressful situation for Mr and Mrs N but I think LVs apology and 
£75 provides a reasonable resolution to that particular issue. 
Mr and Mrs N also complained that the delay by LV in making a decision on their claim 
caused more damage to their property and they ended up paying more for the repairs than 
they should have done. I can see there was a delay in getting the surveyor to attend their 
property. But that was due to the unavailability of a surveyor over the Christmas period, so I 
dont think that was an unreasonable delay. LV then declined the claim a few days after it 
received the surveyors report. LV made their decision about 5 weeks after the claim was 
made and, in the circumstances, I dont think that was an unreasonable length of time. 
Summary
I recognise Mr and Mrs Ns strength of feeling but, in light of the above, I dont think I can 
fairly or reasonably ask LV to do anything differently. 
My final decision
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited has offered to pay Mr and Mrs N £75 to settle 
the complaint and I think that amount is fair in all the circumstances. It should pay that 
amount to Mr and Mrs D if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman