DRN-3881958
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy about the fee she was charged by Santander UK Plc when she transferred
money to her current account.
What happened
In September 2021, Mrs C says she went into a Santander branch and called Santander to
enquire about transferring 76,000 Euros from a bank account abroad (B) to her current
account with Santander. Mrs C says she was told by Santander that there would only be a
£10 processing fee and nothing more. However, when the transfer was made, Mrs C says
she was in fact charged around 620 Euros as a fee.
Mrs C also says she wasnt given any terms and conditions to read regarding the transfer
and was repeatedly told shed only be charged a £10 fee. Mrs C believes another bank was
involved in this transaction and says that she ought to have been informed of this by
Santander. To resolve things, Mrs C has asked Santander to acknowledge they didnt give
her important and relevant information. Mrs C has also asked for compensation as a result of
paying the 620 Euro fee.
Santander pointed to their terms and conditions of Mrs Cs current account which explained
she would be liable for any correspondent bank charges incurred in relation to the collection
of a cheque. And that any correspondent bank charges would be deducted from the
proceeds of the cheque. Overall, Santander didnt think they had acted unfairly and said they
wouldnt refund the fee that they believed was charged by B. Mrs C says she spoke to B and
they said they didnt charge her the 620 Euro fee.
Our Investigator looked into Mrs Cs concerns and she didnt think it was Santander who was
responsible for charging the fee of 620 Euros. She thought Santanders terms and conditions
made clear that they wouldnt be held liable for any correspondent charges. And that it
wasnt Santanders responsibility to advise on what the charge may be as they wouldnt have
this information. So, our Investigator didnt think Santander acted unfairly.
Mrs C disagreed. She said it was unreasonable to expect customers to refer to terms and
conditions on an account they opened many years ago, especially as Mrs C was reassured
by Santander several times that shed only be charged £10 for the transaction. Mrs C also
says she didnt think it was genuine of Santander to say that they wouldnt be aware of what
additional charges a correspondent bank may charge and that it was Santanders
responsibility to inform customers that a correspondent bank may be involved in such a
transaction. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision setting out the below:
It may help to  briefly  explain the process for clearing the cheque. Foreign cheques cant
be put through the UK clearing system and have to be dealt with in one of two ways  known
as negotiation and collection. Santander told us that Mrs Cs cheque was paid in on a
collection basis. What this means is Santander would have sent the cheque they received
from Mrs C to B. And once B received the cheque, they would have either had to pay it or
return the cheque as unpaid. If the cheque was paid, like it was in Mrs Cs case, B are
responsible for sending the cheque amount to Santander. Once Santander received the
amount from B, they would have then credited this to Mrs Cs account  this is so theres no
risk that the funds will later be withdrawn if the cheque isnt paid.
I initially asked Santander if there was another bank, other than them or B, involved in this
transaction such as a correspondent bank or clearing bank. Santander confirmed there
wasnt and explained they sent the cheque directly to B. But they said that the fee was
charged by B.
However, upon further investigation, new information came to light. Santander provided
evidence to show there was another bank involved, (C). Santander provided me with a
copy of the letter they sent instructing B to pay the cheque. And on this letter, it asks B to
follow the reimbursement instructions  below this line was Cs details. Santander also
provided a copy of the cheque Mrs C gave to them and confirmed it was drawn in Euros.
Santander said C is a Euro correspondent bank with whom they hold a foreign currency
account. And Santander also provided a section of their terms and conditions which outlines
there may be correspondent banks used in the routing of an international payment and that
they apply their own charges; which Santander arent responsible for. With all this evidence
in mind, on balance, I think C were acting on behalf of Santander as a correspondent bank.
Mrs C said during the month of September, she contacted Santander and also went into a
Santander branch several times to ask for information on paying a foreign cheque into her
Santander account. And she said she was told on multiple occasions shed only be charged
a fee of £10 - which seems in line with Santanders terms and conditions and also in line with
what Santander have been telling our service. Santander havent been able to provide
evidence of calls with Mrs C before she paid in the cheque. But even without this, I find Mrs
Cs version of events consistent and credible about her asking Santander for information on
paying a foreign cheque.
Mrs C went out of her way to ask Santander for information about making the payment from
her account abroad, but theres no evidence to suggest Santander made Mrs C aware of the
possible involvement of a correspondent bank. And I think had Mrs C been made aware of
the possibility that a correspondent bank would be involved when paying in the cheque and
that she may have incurred further charges as a result, Mrs C may have chosen to transfer
the funds in a different way that may have been cheaper.
Nonetheless, while I appreciate Santanders terms and conditions explain there may be a
third-party correspondent bank used in the routing of an international payment, and that they
apply their own charges, I think Santander should have made Mrs C aware of the possible
involvement of a correspondent bank and fees they may charge when she asked them for
information on paying in a foreign cheque  just like they made her aware of their £10 fee.
Because they didnt do this, I currently think its fair for Santander to reimburse Mrs C the
620 Euro fee plus 8% simple interest in recognition of Mrs C being out of pocket. I think it
would also be fair for Santander to pay this in line with the exchange rate that was applicable
at the time the cheque amount was paid to Mrs C in October 2021.
Mrs C responded to my provisional decision and in summary, agreed with my findings. 
Santander responded and said they wouldnt have prior knowledge of any charges or fees 
which would be deducted in clearance of cheques and that these depend on the bank, 
currency and value of the cheque. Santander also said the responsibility would be on the 
issuing bank of the cheque to inform their customer of the charges involved in the clearance 
of the cheque and that Santander make customers aware they charge a £10 fee. Santander 
said they contacted the branch that processed the cheque just to check they followed the 
correct process and were going to provide me with their response. I gave Santander until 29 December 2022 to provide me with the branchs response, but I 
didnt receive this. Nonetheless, I dont think it makes a difference to my decision and Ill go 
on to explain why.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander have reiterated that they wouldnt be aware of exactly what fees a correspondent 
bank may charge, which I dont find to be unreasonable. However, Santander have also said 
they think it was the issuing bank, B, who were responsible for charging the 620 Euro fee 
Mrs C complains of. But I dont agree. For the same reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision, I think, on balance, the other bank involved in this transaction, C, were acting on 
behalf of Santander as a correspondent bank and I think C charged the fee. 
Santanders terms and conditions explain there may be a third-party correspondent bank 
used in the routing of an international payment and that the correspondent bank apply their 
own charges. So when Mrs C asked Santander for information on paying a foreign cheque 
into her account, and Santander told her they only charged a £10 fee (which isnt in dispute 
here), I think Santander ought to have also made her aware of what their terms and 
conditions say  which is that there may a third party correspondent bank involved who 
apply their own charges. 
As Ive mentioned, I dont think its unreasonable that Santander wouldnt have known 
exactly how much the correspondent bank charged, but I think they ought to have made Mrs 
C aware of the possible involvement of one and that they may apply their own charges, 
given shed asked for information on paying in a foreign cheque and what charges applied. 
Based on all the information I have, I dont think Mrs C was made aware of this by Santander 
when she contacted them via phone and also when she went into the branch to ask for 
information on paying in a foreign cheque. So, I think Santander should put things right for 
Mrs C by refunding her the 620 Euro fee plus 8% simple interest in recognition of Mrs C 
being out of pocket. And I think its fair for Santander to pay this in line with the exchange 
rate that was applicable at the time the cheque amount was paid to Mrs C in October 2021.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and I require Santander UK Plc to:
Pay Mrs C 620 Euros (considering the exchange rate at the time in October 2021).
Pay 8% simple interest on the above amount from the date the cheque amount was 
transferred to Mrs Cs Santander account to the date of payment.*
*If Santander UK Plc consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold
income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs C how much theyve taken off. They
should also provide Mrs C with a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so she can
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman