DRN-3262680
The complaint
Ms T complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt fairly refunded the premiums she paid 
for an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
On 27 February 2020, Ms T took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy to cover 
trips taken within Europe of up to 50 days. The policy was provided by Great Lakes and 
cover started on 21 March 2020 and ran until 20 March 2021. 
Ms T paid a total of £42.19 excluding Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the standard level of 
annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered her for a number of declared 
medical conditions. She paid £17.90 excluding IPT for excess waiver. In total Ms T paid 
£72.11 for her insurance cover, which included IPT.
Because of the global pandemic, Ms T said she wasnt able to travel as shed intended. And 
on 8 February 2021, she contacted Great Lakes to request a policy cancellation and 
premium refund. 
Great Lakes informed Ms T that she wasnt entitled to a full premium refund as she hadnt 
cancelled her policy within 14 days of taking it out. Instead, it offered her a discount towards 
the cost of a new travel policy. Ms T wasnt happy about this and complained to Great 
Lakes. But it didnt uphold her complaint. It didnt think it had made an error and reaffirmed 
the offer it had already made.
Being dissatisfied with Great Lakes response to her complaint, Ms T referred it to our 
service where an investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator empathised with Ms T 
and acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. They set out 
the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of 
this case. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to 
the risk it covered during that time. 
Our investigator explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 21 March 2020 and 
the policy covered various risks during that time. And they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint as they were persuaded that Great Lakes offer was fair and reasonable. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Ms T didnt and 
requested an ombudsmans assessment. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a fair 
and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
Cover under Ms Ts policy commenced on 21 March 2020, which is confirmed by the 
insurance documentation she received. Im satisfied Ms T was reasonably made aware of 
the terms that applied to her policy, which are typical of the cancellation terms found in most 
travel insurance policies.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You  have  the right to cancel  your policy  within  14 days  of the date of issue  or receipt  
of your documents,  whichever  is later.  We will only refund  to you any premium  you 
have  paid,  less any fees and charges  if you have  not travelled,  or have  made,  or 
intend  to make  a claim.
If the notice  of cancellation  is received  outside  the 14-day  cooling-off  period  no 
premium  will be refunded,  however  discretion  may be exercised  in exceptional  
circumstances  such  as bereavement  or a change  to the policy  resulting  in us 
declining  to cover  your medical  conditions.
The policy wasnt cancelled within the cooling off period and so there is no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. As Ive 
outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have to pay any 
refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Ms Ts cooling-off period ended on 12 March 2020 as this was 14 days after the 
policy documentation was issued by Great Lakes. But Ms T didnt contact Great Lakes to 
request cancellation of her policy until 8 February 2021. This was substantially outside the 
cooling off period. 
Based on the industry guidelines and the terms of the policy Ms T purchased, Im satisfied 
she isnt entitled to a refund of her policy premiums. I say this because its a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. 
Having said that, I do understand that the pandemic may have prevented Ms T from 
travelling as shed have liked or intended and that this was beyond her control. Her policy 
refers to a refund being discretionary outside the cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances identified in the policy are 
specific to the individual policyholder, such as bereavement or changes to their health. They 
dont extend to cancellation because of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from 
industry rules and the terms and conditions of Ms Ts contract because of the exceptional 
and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
While Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both 
parties to the insurance contract, it didnt make it impossible for Ms T s contract with Great 
Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy started on 21 March 2020.
Ms T was insured from 21 March 2020 for travelling on any number of trips within Europe of 
up to 50 days duration which she may have taken until the policy expired. Shes said she 
didnt have the opportunity of travelling due to the pandemic. But, because of the way annual 
multi-trip insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of knowing how many such trips a 
policyholder has taken since their policy was incepted.The price set by Great Lakes covered Ms T for cancellation of any holidays which they may 
have had booked and were due to take from 21 March 2020 until 20 March 2021. So, she 
would have been covered if she had had to cancel any number of holidays because of any 
listed events insured under the policy including, for example, her falling ill with a declared 
pre-existing medical condition. 
So, Great Lakes covered the risk of Ms T making a successful cancellation claim for any 
number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number of holidays, from 21 
March 2020 until 20 March 2021. And its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the 
insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what Ms Ts cancellation rights were, it 
isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain the premiums relating to the risk it covered.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Ms T contacted Great Lakes on 8 
February 2021 to cancel her policy and request a premium refund. By this time, there was 
only 41 days left to run on the policy before it expired. 
After Ms T cancelled her insurance policy, Great Lakes wasnt bearing any risk under the 
insurance policy. So it no longer carried any risk of a successful claim being made. And our 
service thinks its right for Great Lakes to offer a refund to a policyholder in such 
circumstances that recognises the period of unused cover. 
Great Lakes has provided evidence showing that if it gave Ms T a pro rata refund of the 
premium paid that reflected the length of time shed been on cover this would come to just 
over £8. Ive checked to calculation Great Lakes provided our service and Im satisfied that 
figure is correct. 
Great Lakes has told our service that, because the refund amount is less than £10, its 
chosen to offer Ms T a 20% discount voucher towards the cost of a future travel policy to 
resolve this complaint. Its stated that this offer is valid for use within 36 months. Our service 
would view this as a fair resolution to this complaint because the validity period provides a 
reasonable period within which a consumer can use it towards future travel insurance 
policies they may wish to take out.
I understand that Ms T feels she should receive a refund of the premium she paid because 
she hasnt been able to use their policy. But Ive already explained why I dont think Great 
Lakes needs to refund the premium paid in full. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I dont think its unreasonable or unfair for 
Great Lakes to offer Ms T a 20% discount voucher given the small refund amount. And, like 
our investigator, Im satisfied that the terms of the voucher offered by Great Lakes arent 
unreasonably restrictive. 
As Im satisfied that Great Lakes offer to resolve Ms Ts complaint is fair and reasonable Im 
not going to uphold this complaint or direct Great Lakes to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman