DRN-2455971
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund some 
gambling transactions he says were made fraudulently on his account.
What happened
Mr K has told us that his debit card was used to make a series of unauthorised payments to 
two different gambling companies between February and June 2020. The disputed 
payments totalled nearly £2,000. 
NatWest wouldnt refund Mr K. So, he brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but felt that, on balance, Mr K had more 
likely than not either authorised these payments himself or consented to someone else 
making them. So, he didnt think NatWest needed to do anything further.
Mr K wasnt happy with our investigators recommended outcome and requested an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K will be disappointed to hear that, like our investigator, I wont be upholding his 
complaint. I appreciate how strongly both Mr K and his representative feel about this. But Ill 
explain why Ive reached the decision I have below.
The relevant law applicable to this complaint is the Payment Services Regulations 2017.In 
summary, those regulations provide that a customer will be responsible for any payments 
from their account when the transactions have been authorised by them. In this case that 
means the customer put their card details into the gambling websites and consented to the 
transactions being made.
Where theres a dispute about whether a customer has authorised the transactions or not, Id 
expect the bank to provide evidence about why theyre holding their customer liable. Natwest 
has done that here. And I need to weigh up the information its given me and decide whether 
I think NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in holding Mr K responsible for the disputed 
transactions. 
I have to make my decision based on what I think is more likely than not to have happened. 
That means I wont generally be 100% certain that something happened in the way Ive 
described, just that I think that it is more likely than not to have happened like that. So, Im 
sorry if Mr K still disagrees with me, but I have to make a judgement call on the facts of his 
case.
Having carefully reviewed all the information available to me, I have found that the 
transactions were more likely than not authorised by Mr K. And thats broadly for the same 
reasons that the investigator gave in his opinion. These include that:
Natwest checked with one of the gambling companies which confirmed the personal 
information they held for Mr K matched that which both our service and NatWest 
held for him. Its very unlikely that a third party would have set up an account with 
exactly the same contact details as Mr K. That would mean theyd have needed to 
have access to his email to provide any authorisations to the gambling company. 
And there would also be no benefit to a fraudster in doing this, given theyd be 
unable to access any winnings from Mr Ks account.
Mr K had previously made a number of transactions with the gambling companies in 
the past. So, he had a history of gambling on these websites. 
The IP (internet protocol) address for Mr Ks broadband that was used to access one 
of the gambling sites, matched that used for undisputed activity on Mr Ks Natwest 
bank account.
Mr K continued to make similar transactions to other gambling companies after 
reporting the disputed ones to NatWest. 
Mr K was still in possession of his debit card and hasnt provided any reasonable 
explanation about how anyone else couldve obtained the details needed to make 
these payments.
Mr K accessed his online banking quite often throughout the time the disputed 
transactions took place  yet didnt raise the disputed transactions until after the 
gambling accounts had suffered losses.
Id like to assure Mr K that I have thought about how else this could have happened without 
his involvement. But, on balance, the combination of factors Ive mentioned above means 
Im unable to see how its likely that these payments werent authorised by Mr K.
I appreciate that Mr Ks representative believes that Mr K may have been tricked into 
gambling this money. And Ive taken into account Mr Ks health conditions when reaching my 
decision. I was really sorry to hear about the difficult time that Mr K has had during 
lockdown. And I appreciate this cant have been easy for either him or his representative. 
But what I need to decide here is whether or not Natwest has done anything wrong in paying 
the gambling companies from Mr Ks account. And its unfortunately not within my powers to 
look at what responsibility the gambling companies themselves may have had here for the 
losses that Mr K suffered.
I know that Mr Ks representative thinks that this series of payments should have flagged 
with NatWest and ultimately not have been approved because of the pattern and value of the 
payments involved. But Im afraid that gambling was not an uncommon use of Mr Ks 
account, both in the run up to, and after the disputed transactions. So, I dont think that its 
something that should have flagged with Natwest - or that the bank should have taken any 
pre-emptive action to stop.
So, in summary, I think that Natwest has shown that these transactions were more likely 
than not authorised by Mr K and that it hasnt failed in its responsibilities to protect his 
account from fraud.
My final decisionIts my final decision that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. And I wont be requiring that 
National Westminster Bank Plc needs to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman