DRN-3057611
The complaint
Mr J complains Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One ) conducted a full credit search 
without his consent.
What happened
Mr J says Capital One performed a hard credit search after he was pre-approved for a credit 
card with them. Mr J says at no point prior to his application for the credit card did Capital 
One inform him such a search would be carried out, only a soft search and this wouldnt be 
visible to other organisations or impact his credit rating. Mr J says he subsequently received 
correspondence from a credit reference agency explaining a hard search had been 
conducted, and this has affected his credit score and has left a negative mark on his 
creditworthiness. Mr J wants Capital One to remove their search from his credit file. 
Capital One says the soft search was carried out to check Mr Js eligibility for the card and 
following him making a full application, a hard search was conducted, as detailed in the 
terms and conditions which Mr J had accepted and acknowledged. Capital One says they 
have done nothing wrong. 
Mr J wasnt happy with Capital Ones response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt the soft search was carried out as part of an eligibility check but once Mr J 
had then applied for the credit card a full hard check was conducted. The investigator 
explained that it did state in the terms and conditions of the credit card, that Mr J had read  
prior to the card being approved, a credit check would be carried out. The investigator says 
that Capital One like other businesses have an obligation to factually report information to 
the credit reference agencies and have done nothing wrong here.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would be frustrating for Mr J to have believed he had applied for a credit 
card without a hard credit check being necessary, only to find out that wasnt the case. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Capital One informed Mr J they would be 
carrying out a full credit check before approving the credit card account for him.
Mr Js complaint centres around the fact he received from Capital One, an online 
confirmation telling  him a soft credit search was being conducted and this would have no 
impact on his credit rating. Mr J has told this service, at no point prior to the credit card 
account being approved, was he informed a hard credit check/search would take place. 
I have considered what Mr J says here and its fair to say as part of the eligibility check, 
carried out by Capital One, they did carry out a soft check which they confirmed would leave 
no footprint on Mr Js credit file, as he says.  But here, Mr J went on to then complete a full 
application for the credit card account. Its worth saying the approval of a credit card account 
is a different matter to an eligibility check. An eligibility check is to do just that, check from a 
credit file a customers credit rating, not approving a credit card as that is subject to a full 
application, which from the information I have seen, was completed online by Mr J. 
What is important here is, as part of that credit card account application, under the credit 
card agreement its states: Before signing this agreement
 Please make sure that all the information you have given us is true and complete
 Please read the terms and conditions of this agreement and make sure you understand 
them:
 You may only sign this agreement if you are at least 1 8 years of age
You request us to issue you with a Capital One Credit Card and PIN under this agreement
The agreement will not be legally binding unless and until all creditworthiness and 
affordability, fraud, identity and other checks have been completed successfully.
So here, Mr J did accept those terms and conditions by completing the application and it 
remains his responsibility to ensure he has read and understood them, as the application 
form instructs. I am satisfied when Capital One refer to creditworthiness checks here, they 
are referring to a full credit search. Its reasonable to say the only way a business, like 
Capital One could understand Mr Js creditworthiness would be by conducting a full credit 
check, even if he doesnt think they should. So, I cant say Capital One didnt make it clear 
further checks were going to be carried out as part of the application process, as the credit 
agreement I have seen said it would. 
While Mr J will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Capital One 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman