DRN-3386259
Complaint
Mr C complains that TM Advances Limited (TM Advances) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
TM Advances provided Mr C with a loan for £3,000.00 in November 2016. This loan had an 
APR of 140.9% and was due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of £235. One of our 
adjudicators reviewed Mr Cs complaint and he thought TM Advances shouldnt have 
provided Mr C with this loan. So he thought that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. TM 
Advances didnt agree so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint. 
TM Advances needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is TM Advances needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mr C could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. The 
information TM Advances has provided shows that it carried out a credit check. The results 
of which clearly demonstrated that Mr C was already significantly indebted. Its worth noting 
that the warning on the front page of the credit check said:
HIGH RISK
MOST LENDERS VIEW THIS SCORE AS HIGH RISK  A HIGH PROPORTION OF 
APPLICANTS FOR CREDIT WITH THIS SCORE WILL EXPERIENCE SERIOUS 
REPAYMENT PROBLEMS IF THE APPLICATION IS ACCEPTED
The reason for this warning appears to have been because Mr C had exceeded the limit on 
two of his credit cards and was at the upper end of the limit on a third account. Coupled with 
this Mr C also appears to have had a history of regular use of payday type loans too. 
So Im persuaded by what Mr C has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And while its possible he could have been in this position through choice rather 
than because he was struggling, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest 
this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from TM Advances, 
Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Cs version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Cs existing debts meant that he was unlikely to be able 
to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. And as 
reasonable and proportionate checks should have involved finding out about Mr Cs income 
and expenditure, Im satisfied they would more like than not have shown TM Advances that it 
shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr C. As TM Advances provided Mr C with this loan, 
notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr C ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr C lost out because of what TM Advances did wrong and that it 
should put things right.
Fair compensation  - what TM Advances needs to do to put things right for Mr C
Having thought about everything, TM Advances should put things right for Mr C by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr C paid on this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr C to the date of settlement
all adverse information TM Advances recorded about this loan should be removed 
from Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to take off tax from this interest. TM 
Advances must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. TM Advances Limited should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman