DRN-4117357
Complaint
H, a limited company, complains that Starling Bank Limited hasnt reimbursed its losses after 
it fell victim to what it describes as fraud. H is represented by its director, Ms F. For 
simplicitys sake, Ive generally referred to Ms F in the text of this decision.
Background
In 2019, Ms F was contacted by a company that specialises in finding investors to buy new 
build properties, typically off-plan. It was marketing a specific residential block that was to be 
built in a large city. No work had been started on the development at this point, but Ms F was 
told that she could make a series of monthly payments which would eventually constitute a 
deposit for purchasing one of these properties to rent out. She could then obtain a buy-to-let 
mortgage and make the property available to tenants.
She signed a reservation form which said that the estimated completion date was in late 
2020. That document included the following terms:
23. Please note the Reservation Deposit and paid deposit is non-refundable if you 
decide not to proceed for any reason.
24. However, a full refund of all payments will be made in the following 
circumstances:
If the developer withdraws from the project.
If the apartment reserved is materially different in terms of size (+/- 10%), 
orientation and/or floor level once full planning is granted.
If full planning permission for the Development is not secured.
She made payments towards this investment using her Starling account, as well as making 
other payments using credit cards she holds with other financial businesses. She was told 
that, for administrative simplicity, she should use the developers nominated firm of solicitors 
to carry out the conveyancing and all work preparatory to the transfer of the property to her 
company. Ms F was uncomfortable with doing this and so hired a different solicitor to assist 
her.
In June 2020, an employee of the developer contacted Ms F to say that, due to a change in 
the planning permission that had been granted, the specific unit that shed contracted to 
purchase was no longer available. He told her that she wouldnt be able to have her funds 
returned to her, but that she could put them towards an alternative unit in the same 
development (albeit now marketed under a different name). From the evidence Ive seen, 
Ms F agreed verbally to proceed with investing in a different unit and was sent the relevant 
paperwork.
However, it was at this point that she began to have more general concerns about the 
proposal. She had initially thought that the developer was authorised and regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). There is an authorised firm with a similar name. 
However, it turned out to be unconnected with this arrangement she had entered into.
In addition, the revised contract seemed to involve different parties to the ones shed thought 
she was dealing with and the Report on Title prepared by her solicitor suggested that the 
length of the lease differed from what shed previously been told.
As she was concerned about these inconsistencies, she wasnt happy to sign any further 
documentation or proceed with the investment. By this point, she had paid over £40,000 to 
the developer. The developer told her that it wouldnt return her funds in full but that, as a 
gesture of goodwill, it would offer her a partial refund of her investment (it offered 
£14,175.51) and that it would hold the remainder of her funds on account should she change 
her mind or want to invest the funds at a different development.
She took legal advice on her options. Her solicitor wrote to her and said that:
 if you withdraw from the Second Agreement your reservation deposit and reservation 
fee are non-refundable. As far as I am aware you do not fall under any of the exceptions 
under clause 24. You have the following options:
1) Agree to their proposal as set out in their email dated 19 February 2021 (refund 
of deposit less cancellation fee). Please note I do not have the breakdown of their 
cancellation fees
2) Continue with the purchase; or
3) Writing to [the developer], stating that the Second Agreement is void and 
unenforceable as the agreement fails to state who the contracting party is/define 
the Developer. This creates uncertainty and therefore you could possibly argue 
the agreement is void.
In respect of 3 above, please note my view is that the prospect of succeeding on this 
point is low
The following month, her solicitor wrote to the investment company and said that our 
client contends that the Agreement lacks certainty due to the fact that the Developer, the 
party to the contract is not defined on the Agreement and therefore the Agreement is void. 
The letter said that, if Ms F wasnt fully reimbursed within 14 days, a claim would be brought 
against the developer. No claim was ever issued, and Ms F ended her relationship with the 
solicitor in May 2021.
According to Ms F, by December 2021 there had been no activity on the site. She was 
concerned that shed fallen victim to a scam and so she notified Starling. She pointed out 
that it has agreed to abide by the terms of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. This Code says that, where a customer falls victim to 
an authorised push payment (APP) scam, the bank should refund their losses. Starling 
investigated but said it wouldnt pay her a refund. It said that the Code explicitly states that it 
doesnt apply to private civil disputes. The dispute that Ms F was now involved in was 
therefore not covered.
Ms F didnt agree with that conclusion. She has conducted extensive research on the 
developer, one of its directors and that directors other business interests. She argues that 
the public records on the Companies House register show that client funds havent been 
used appropriately. She says that the director of the developer has withdrawn money from 
the company accounts by way of a loan and laundered it through personal bank accounts. Shes also pointed to a significant number of reviews posted on a third-party website 
suggesting that there are many people who have had a similar experience with the 
developer to her own. 
Finally, she instructed a debt collection agency to visit the company to attempt to recover her 
losses. It told her that the companys registered addresses didnt have any staff present. In 
short, Ms F says that there is an abundance of evidence to support her contention that the 
conduct of the developer meets the legal definition of fraud and that Starling therefore has to 
reimburse her. 
The case was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. He wasnt persuaded that 
Ms Fs complaint was covered by the CRM Code because he too thought it was likely that it 
was a civil dispute. He said that a genuine firm may fail to meet its contractual obligations for 
a range of reasons  that failure alone isnt enough to show an intent to defraud. He noted 
that work on the site in question did appear to be progressing according to the developers 
quarterly updates. 
He also observed that the developer had made a partial offer to settle the dispute and had 
engaged in correspondence with Ms Fs solicitors. This wasnt something hed have 
expected from a fraudster. On balance, he was persuaded that this suggested this was a 
civil dispute, rather than a scam. 
Ms F disagreed with the Investigators opinion. She said it doesnt make sense to say that 
this wasnt a scam when the property sold to her hasnt been built and has since been 
resold. She said that the contract says that the flats would be completed in 2022. Despite 
that, by 2023 the work hadnt even commenced on the foundations. As Ms F disagreed with 
the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to consider and come to a 
final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that Ms F authorised the payments. Under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, that means shes liable for them at first instance. However, Starling was 
under a range of other duties and obligations at the time. Broadly summarised, it was 
expected to be on the lookout for payments that were unusual or out of character with the 
aim of preventing customers from falling victim to fraud and scams. Its also agreed to 
comply with the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code. In certain circumstances, that code can entitle a customer to be reimbursed by the 
bank after theyve fallen victim to a scam. 
My role here is only to reach a determination on whether Starling has an obligation to 
reimburse her. This service doesnt have the power to conduct a criminal investigation into 
the director of the development company or to hold an individual personally accountable for 
the accusations Ms F has made. Before I consider whether any of those obligations come into play, I must first consider 
whether Ms F is a victim of fraud. The CRM code is explicit that it doesnt apply to private 
civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services 
 but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise 
dissatisfied with the supplier.
This isnt a straightforward question to address. To be satisfied that Ms F fell victim to fraud, 
Id need to be persuaded that the company she dealt with had a settled intention to defraud 
her. Obviously, I cannot know what was in the minds of the individuals at that company at 
the time they entered into this agreement with her. As a result, I must infer what their 
intentions were based on what the available evidence tells me.
Overall, Im unpersuaded that Ms F fell victim to fraud here. The fact that the developer has 
kept her money is no demonstration of fraud. Ms F entered into a contract which set out in 
advance how it could be brought to an end and what would happen to the money shed paid 
up until that point. As I understand it, Ms F thinks either that the contractual terms entitle her 
to a full refund or that the contract was void for uncertainty. The developer disagrees. It 
would be for a court to decide the proper interpretation of the contract in the event that Ms F 
were to bring a civil claim. 
Ms F has also argued that its clear that shes been defrauded because the property hasnt 
been built. Ive looked at the page on an online forum where updates are posted about this 
particular development. Ms F shared this as evidence of the lack of progress. But the same 
page today clearly shows that work has progressed much further than shes acknowledged. 
Ms Fs own research into the activities of the director and the conclusions shes drawn from 
them are speculative and certainly arent enough for me to make a finding that shes likely a 
victim of fraud. Ultimately, she has presented one hypothesis without hard evidence. The 
limited available evidence could equally point to other hypotheses. 
I cant rule out the possibility that there are legitimate concerns about the conduct of the 
director. However, the police havent seen fit to take any further action despite Ms F alleging 
criminal activity worth millions of pounds. If Ms F had taken legal action against the 
company, the director might have been required to give oral testimony under oath and be 
subject to cross-examination by counsel. However, this service isnt a court of law and we do 
not have such powers. 
As I explained above, my role here is only to determine whether Starling is required to 
reimburse Ms F under the terms of the CRM Code. That means that the evidence needs to 
demonstrate that it is more likely than not that Ms F is a victim of fraud. The evidence 
supporting that proposition is simply not strong enough for me to uphold her complaint. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman