DRN-2760245
The complaint
Mr L complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) and the service he received 
when he transferred funds into his foreign account.
What happened
Mr L holds a premier banking account with Natwest. As Mr L lives abroad, but kept most of 
his money in UK accounts, he has a regular need to transfer large sums to his foreign 
account. 
In November 2018, Mr L had a new relationship manager (RM) allocated to his account. 
Between then and January 2019, Mr L attempted to arrange a call with his RM as he wanted 
to know if there was an easier way for him to transfer more than £10,000 at a time, which he 
was able to do online. But he didnt receive a call and his question wasnt answered. Mr L 
also asked his local branch the same question but was referred back to his RM rather than 
receiving an answer.
On 22 February 2020, Mr L sent a letter to his local branch asking them to transfer £50,000 
into his foreign account. This letter was received on 28 February and the transfer was 
completed on 2 March, the next working day. But Mr L was unhappy with the length of time 
this took, as the exchange rate had become less favourable during that period. So, Mr L 
raised a complaint.
Mr L complained that the delay meant hed lost out financially because the exchange rate 
had dropped. So, he wanted to be compensated for the amount he wouldve received from 
the transfer had it been completed when the exchange rate was more preferable. He was 
also unhappy about the service hed received from both the RM and his branch, as neither 
had given him alternative methods to complete the transfer. 
Natwest responded and partially upheld his complaint. They agreed Mr Ls RM shouldve 
responded to his emails in 2018/2019. And they also agreed that his branch shouldve been 
able to answer his questions, rather than refer him back to his RM or ask for a letter to be 
sent. So, they apologised for the upset this caused and the £30 payment charge for the 
transfer was waived. But they didnt think theyd done anything wrong when processing the 
transfer. They explained Mr Ls letter was received on 28 February and his request was 
processed the next working day. So, they thought theyd acted fairly and didnt think were 
responsible for Mr Ls financial loss. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. 
Mr L remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He agreed Natwest failed to 
respond to Mr Ls questions regarding alternative ways to complete transfers to his foreign 
account and he thought this wouldve been frustrating and inconvenient. So, he thought 
Natwest should pay Mr L £50 to recognise this. But he didnt think Natwest had caused a 
delay to the transfer as hed seen they processed it the next working day after the letter was 
received. So, he didnt think they needed to do anything more for this aspect of the 
complaint.
Mr L didnt agree. He explained his view that, if his RM or branch had made him aware of the 
option to transfer funds over the phone, he wouldnt have needed to send a letter. And 
because of this, he thought hed have been able to transfer his money when the exchange 
rate was preferable. So, he maintained his view that Natwests failings led to his financial 
loss, and he wanted to be compensated for this. As Mr L didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr L. Ive no doubt Mr L 
wanted to explore alternative ways to transfer funds into his foreign account to make it 
easier. And when Natwest didnt answer his questions directly, he had to resort to the only 
process he was aware of. And as this was done by letter, there was a period of time 
between the letter being sent and the transfer being completed. During this time, the 
exchange rate dropped. So, I can understand why Mr L holds Natwest responsible for the 
financial loss that resulted from this. So, Ive considered whether the delays Mr L 
encountered when making the transfer were the fault of Natwest. And if not, whether the 
service Natwest provided meant Mr L had no choice but to send a letter to Natwest.
Ive seen Mr Ls letter sent to Natwest on 22 February 2020. And Ive seen this was received 
on 28 February onto Natwests system. This was five working days after it was sent, 
considering the weekend. The transfer was then processed on 2 March, which was the next 
working day.
So, from when the letter was received by Natwest, I think it was processed efficiently and as 
quickly as it couldve been. And I dont think its fair to hold Natwest responsible for the delay 
of five working days for the letter to be received. This was sent by international post, so Id 
expect it to take slightly longer than usual post. And even so, Natwest are unable to control 
any postal delays there may have been. So, I dont think Natwest have caused any 
unnecessary delays when processing the actual transfer. I appreciate Mr L has questioned 
when the letter was received by the branch, and feels there was a delay at this point, but Ive 
seen no evidence of this. Ive seen the letter was inputted to the system on 28 February and 
without any further information, I think its most likely this is the date the letter was received 
by the branch.
But Im aware Mr L accepts there may have been postal delays, and that Natwest couldnt 
control this. His main point relates to the service he received before this transfer. Hes 
explained if hed been made aware he was able to transfer money over the phone due to his 
status with a premier banking account, then this is what hed have done. So, he thinks hed 
have been able to transfer the funds on 22 February and wouldve been able to make use of 
the preferential exchange rate. So, Ive thought about whether I agree.
Natwest havent disputed both the RM appoint to Mr Ls account, and his branch, failed to 
answer the questions he directed to them. Ive seen Mr L asked these questions on multiple 
occasions and didnt receive a satisfactory reply. So, I do think Natwest acted unfairly and 
unreasonably and Mr L should be compensated for this. Putting things right
As I think Natwest acted unfairly, Ive then thought about what I think they should do to put 
things right. Mr L thinks Natwests failings led to his financial loss due to the exchange rate 
drop when his transfer was process and he wants to be compensated for this amount. But I 
dont think Natwest are wholly responsible for Mr Ls financial loss.
In the e-mails Mr L received from his RM, he was provided with alternative numbers Mr L 
could call to ask any urgent questions if he couldnt speak to his RM. I cant see that Mr L 
called these numbers to ask about alternative methods of transfer. The e-mails also directed 
Mr L to Natwests web chat service, where he couldve asked the same questions. So, while 
I do think Natwest failed at both RM and branch level, I do think Mr L had more options to 
explore before deciding the proceed with the transfer by letter. And as he was transferring a 
large amount of money, and he was aware that exchange rates change continuously, I think 
its reasonable to assume hed explore all possible avenues before proceeding with this 
option.
Ive also seen Mr Ls bank statements. And they show that Mr Ls account wasnt credited 
with the £50,000 he wanted to transfer to his foreign account until 26 February, four days 
after he sent the letter to Natwest. So, I think Mr L was aware the process would take some 
time to complete and that this transfer would be impacted by any change in exchange rate 
there may have been. This also means Im unable to say for certain that Mr L wouldve 
completed the transfer over the phone on the 22 February. Because of the above, I dont 
think I can fairly say Natwests actions were the sole reason Mr L missed out on the 
preferential exchange rates. And so, I dont think it would be fair for me to say they should 
compensate Mr L for the amount he lost during the transfer.
Natwest have confirmed the £30 payment fee they usually charge for transfers into foreign 
accounts has been waived. And our investigator recommended Natwest should pay Mr L an 
additional £50 for the frustration and inconvenience he was caused by both the RM and the 
branch failing to adequately answer Mr Ls questions. I think this recommendation is a fair 
one, and in line with what I wouldve directed had it not been recommended. So, I think 
Natwest should make a payment of £50 to Mr L.
This payment is to recognise that Natwest failed at both RM and branch level. I think this 
wouldve had an impact on Mr L as Ive seen the e-mails Mr L sent asking the same 
questions, which didnt receive a response. I think this wouldve been frustrating and I can 
also recognise the time this would taken Mr L to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint about National Westminster Bank 
Plc and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr L £50 compensation to recognise the inconvenience hes been caused by 
their failure to answers his questions adequately.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman