DRN-3158108
The complaint
Mrs Y has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (GLI) has declined her claim for 
treatment for her dog on the ground that he had a pre-existing medical condition.
What happened
The background to Mrs Ys complaint has been well summarized by our investigator in his 
view so I wont repeat it at length.
Briefly stated, Mrs Ys dog, who Ill refer to as S, required treatment in 2020 for what was 
diagnosed to be bilateral otitis media and suspected right-sided otitis interna which were 
believed to be responsible for S developing a head tilt and suffering vestibular episodes. 
Prior to Mrs Y taking out her policy with GLI on 18 March 2020, S had been diagnosed with 
otitis externa on 18 April 2019 and was treated for this until July 2019.
Mrs Y made a claim for Ss treatment in 2020. GLI declined her claim on the basis that it 
related to a pre-existing condition, and treatment for pre-existing conditions are expressly 
excluded by her policy. 
GLI maintains that otitis externa, otitis media and otitis interna are linked, and if it were not 
for the otitis externa, it would be unlikely that otitis media and otitis interna would be present, 
as these are an extension of the infection. The veterinary clinic who treated S has confirmed 
that the otitis interna was the cause of the vestibular signs.
Mrs Y disagrees with GLIs grounds for rejecting her claim. She maintains that otitis interna 
was not a pre-existing condition. She says S had never previously been treated for a 
vestibular event, nor had he ever previously been treated for otitis interna.
Mrs Y was unhappy with GLIs rejection of her claim and brought her complaint to this 
service. Our investigators view was that GLI had reasonably concluded that Ss 2019 and 
2020 ear issues were related, and that this was backed up by the veterinary assessments. 
Mrs Y doesnt accept our investigators view and has asked that her complaint be considered 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I can understand that this decision will be upsetting for Mrs Y, Im not going to uphold 
her complaint and Ill explain why.
I should start by saying that Mrs Ss policy makes it clear that pre-existing conditions arent 
covered. I think Mrs Y accepts this, but her argument is that what S was treated for in 2020 
wasnt diagnosed as anything that S had previously been diagnosed with. The 2020 
diagnosis was of bilateral otitis media and suspected right-sided otitis interna. In 2019 S had 
only been diagnosed with otitis externa. Mrs Y has said in her response to our investigator 
that no reference had been made to otitis externa in 2019, but this appears in an entry in Ss 
medical notes at 09.35 on 18 April 2019.
I can see the basis for Mrs Ys argument  that otitis externa wasnt the direct cause of Ss 
vestibular event, so his treatment for this wasnt linked to his pre-existing otitis externa. 
However Im afraid I dont find this argument persuasive. The evidence I have seen from the 
veterinary experts is that these conditions are usually linked. Our investigator quoted the 
view of GLIs technical team. To paraphrase their advice: Otitis media is usually an 
extension of otitis externa, and otitis media can then lead to otitis interna. Our investigator 
also asked Ss surgeon for her view as to whether the previous episode of otitis externa was 
likely to be the cause of the otitis interna, and her response was " unfortunately yes they are 
usually related".
Mrs Y wouldve known that in 2019, before she took out her policy, S received treatment 
over a number of months for an ear infection. On the basis of the veterinary opinion 
provided, I consider that its likely, or usual, that the otitis interna diagnosed in 2020 was a 
development from the pre-existing otitis externa for which S was treated in 2019. 
As I find that Ss treatment in 2020 in all likelihood had its origin in a condition for which S 
had received treatment in 2019, I dont consider that GLI has acted unreasonably in 
declining Mrs Ys claim. It has done so in accordance with a clear term of Mrs Ys policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mrs Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman