DRN-2376712
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt given a cash refund of the 
premiums they paid for an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F bought an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy, insured by Great Lakes. 
The policy was purchased on 13 February 2020, to cover any trips of up to 35 days duration 
taken in Europe. The policy year started on 12 May 2020 to end on 11 May 2021. 
Mr and Mrs F paid £287.94 for annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which covered some 
of their declared medical conditions. 
On 24 April 2020 Mr F contacted the broker to cancel his and Mrs Fs travel insurance policy. 
Their holiday had been cancelled by the cruise company due to the Covid-19 situation. Mr F 
said they no longer needed the policy and the cover under the policy hadnt started so they 
wanted a full cash refund.  
Great Lakes said it could cancel the policy and provide Mr and Mrs F with a credit voucher of 
the full premium of £287.94 as the policy cover hadnt started. The voucher could be used 
within 36 months and the voucher could be used towards multiple single trip policies if Mr 
and Mrs F didnt feel comfortable purchasing annual insurance. Alternatively they could have 
a credit voucher towards buying a new 15 months annual policy for the price 12 months, at 
the current market rates.  
Great Lakes wouldnt give a cash refund as the cancellation was outside the 14 day cooling 
off period and under the policy terms no refund is due outside that period.  
Mr and Mrs F complained to our service. In summary, they say they dont want a voucher as 
they may not go on holiday in the period the voucher needed to be used. They are 
concerned the business may not exist in the future. They only needed to cancel the policy 
after the 14 day cooling off period had expired and they thought the need for cancellation 
due to Covid-19 restrictions was an an exceptional circumstance referred to in the policy so 
Great Lakes should use its discretion to pay them a cash refund. They also said they had 
been prudent in taking out the policy before it was required and if they had waited to take out 
the policy until just before the holiday they wouldnt be in this position. Instead Great Lakes 
had kept their premium and provided no cover. They also understand that some insurers 
have given cash refund of premiums.
Before I made a decision I asked Great Lakes to clarify the terms of the offer. Great Lakes 
said the 36 months voucher runs from when the voucher is accepted and issued. That 
voucher can be used in full or part payment of a new policy whether single trip or annual 
multi trip policy and could be for a policy towards UK trips. That voucher was transferable if 
Mr and Mrs F thought their future travel wasnt feasible. For the alternative offer, the 
15 months for the price of 12 months policy was still available but could be withdrawn at any 
time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Mr and Mrs Fs comments about whether Great Lakes is the correct business for 
their complaint and I confirm that it is. Great Lakes is the insurer of the policy and 
responsible for premium refunds.
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs F held have a cooling off period of 
14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is 
called the right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. 
The policy terms and conditions 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs insurance policy with Great Lakes outline their 
cancellation rights under the contract and say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt 
of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you 
have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or 
intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs Fs cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to 
them than is required by industry rules. But Mr and Mrs Fs policy was purchased on 
13 February 2020 and they wanted to cancel on 24 April 2020. That was more than 14 days 
after they bought the policy.
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a 
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14 day cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider 
the Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of 
situation, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term 
relating to discretion is intended to cover. 
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs F are entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms and conditions of the contract with Great Lakes.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
I understand why any travel plans which Mr and Mrs F might have had during the remainder 
of the policy year  and therefore the need for this annual multi-trip insurance policy  
changed due to circumstances outside of their control. So, Ive thought about whether it 
would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the terms 
and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs contract because of the exceptional and extraordinary 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. For this reason, Great Lakes chose as a goodwill gesture to offer 
Mr and Mrs F a credit voucher of £287.94 which could be used towards a new policy, within 
the next three years and for holidays abroad or in the UK and which is transferable. 
Alternatively, Great Lakes offered a credit voucher towards buying a new 15 months annual 
policy for the price 12 months. The value of the voucher is for the full premium Mr and Mrs F 
paid for the policy, which is fair as the policy cover hadnt started before the policy was 
cancelled.
Ive seen the points Mr and Mrs F have made about why they think Great Lakes should give 
them a cash refund rather than a voucher. As Ive outlined above there is no requirement 
under the policy terms, or the industry rules for Great Lakes to give a Mr and Mrs F a cash 
refund and the offer of a voucher also goes beyond what Great Lakes is required to do. Ive 
no reason to think that Great Lakes may not be trading within when Mr and Mrs F have to 
use either voucher. Mr and Mrs F say they may not want to go on holiday within the time limit 
of the 36 months voucher but Great Lakes has confirmed that the voucher can be used for 
holidays in the UK as well as abroad and if Mr and Mrs F think future travel for them isnt 
feasible that voucher is transferable so they are able to, for example, offer it to family and 
friends if they dont want to use it. 
I understand that during the14 day cooling off period Mr and Mrs F had no need to cancel 
the policy as the holiday was still due to happen. But Ive explained above why I dont think it 
would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider cancellation due to the 
Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances to give a cash refund of premiums 
after the 14 day cooling off period. 
If Mr and Mrs F had waited to take out the policy until just before the holiday took place they 
wouldnt be in this position. But I have to decide whether Great Lakes made a reasonable 
offer in the actual circumstances, which is that Mr and Mrs F took out the policy in 
February 2020. Even if some other insurers have given a full cash refund of premium to 
policyholders in Mr and Mrs Fs situation that doesnt mean Great Lakes offer is  
unreasonable, given its policy terms.
I understand that when Mr and Mrs F cancelled the policy the policy cover hadnt yet started. 
But the 14 days cooling off period referred to in the industry guidance and policy terms is the 
14 days from the date the policy was issued, or the policy documents received. Its not 14 
days from the date cover begins.
Although Mrs and Mrs F say Great Lakes has kept their premium and given them no cover it has offered a voucher for the value of the full premium for future cover as detailed in its offer.
Ultimately, when Mr and Mrs F asked for the policy to be cancelled, under the policy terms 
and industry guidance Great Lakes didnt have to offer any cash refund of premium or 
voucher. Its alternative offers of a credit voucher for the full premium towards a new policy 
goes beyond what it needed to do. I dont think the terms of Great Lakes voucher are 
unreasonably restrictive, so I think the voucher is a fair offer in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman