DRN-3452659
The complaint
T, a business partnership, complains that Paymentsense Limited applied charges incorrectly 
and wouldnt cancel its agreement without fees.
What happened
T took a merchant services and a terminal hire agreement in 2019. In May 2021 it contacted 
Paymentsense to say it wanted to cancel the agreements due to business circumstances. 
And it also stated that it hadnt been told about an increase in fees and that a monthly 
charge for a clientline service shouldnt have been made. T was unhappy that 
Paymentsense wouldnt cancel the agreements unless it paid termination fees.
Paymentsense said it hadnt made any mistake. It had written to T about the increase in fees 
in December 2020. The clientline service was part of the agreement when it went live in 
September 2019. And it hadnt received any notice before of cancellation. It couldnt cancel 
the agreements unless it clarified the fees due with T. It offered to change the rates back to 
those before the increase, refund six months of clientline fees and cover the next three 
months of terminal rental.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. T had said it had been told 
by the person who sold the agreement that it could cancel after 18 months without any 
charge. And that the clientline service had to be part of the application but would be removed 
when the service became active. T said it hadnt received a notice of charges increase. T 
said it doesnt want to use the services anymore as it has lost trust given the way the 
charges and its complaint was handled.
Our investigator said that he couldnt know what T was told at the time of the sale. And that 
he needed to rely on the available evidence given there was a dispute. He had copies of the 
hire agreement and merchant application form that T signed. He thought that T was 
reasonably bound by the terms and if it had any concerns that it wouldnt have signed.
The charge for clientline was included and there was no ambiguity about that. 
Paymentsense said it would have emailed T about the clientline subscription with an option 
to opt out. But the statements also showed the charge separately and there was no 
indication that T wasnt receiving these.
Paymentsense had confirmed that under the terms of the agreement the minimum number 
of monthly terminal hire payments that T would have to pay was 18. But the cancellation 
fees it referred to included a separate terminal restocking fee and a termination fee relating 
to the merchant services agreement. He couldnt see it had made an error in requiring T to 
pay these. And Paymentsense said it couldnt proceed with the cancellation request without 
speaking to T about this.
Paymentsense had provided internal evidence to show that it had issued a letter about the 
increase in processing charges.  It could under the terms of the agreement increase charges 
subject to providing at least two months notice. He was satisfied that the letter had been 
sent. He didnt think that Paymentsense could be responsible for issues with the postal 
service. And it had offered to reverse the rate increases.
T didnt agree. It said in summary that it was concerned about Paymentsenses efforts to 
inform customers about the end of a free trial for clientline. Had T been asked if it wanted it 
then the answer would have been no. T believed that the inclusion of this in the agreement 
was a sales trick. The changes to the merchant services charges were material and applied 
single-handedly. The least Paymentsense could do was make sure that the notice was 
received, and T didnt have problems with its post. The cancellation fees were in the small 
print and not explained.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
T freely signed the agreements and I think is reasonably bound by them. Those documents 
set out the charges and the costs of termination. I cant know exactly what the salesperson 
said to T.
I understand the point T makes about clientline. Paymentsense says the charge was 
included in the agreement and that T could later opt out. But T doesnt recall getting any 
email about this. It expected that the charge wouldnt continue.  This charge was separately 
identified on the monthly statements and I dont have a basis to find it was applied in error.
Paymentsense was entitled to review charges and to increase them with two months notice. 
I appreciate that the increases put forward in December 2020 were significant. As part of the 
agreement it didnt need confirmation from T either of receipt of the notice or agreement to 
the increases. It worked on the basis that its letter had been received. I cant resolve what 
happened to that. In the event Paymentsense in recognition of what happened offered to 
revert back to the previous charges.
Paymentsense has confirmed that T was eligible to cancel the agreements with a months 
notice. And that provided it had paid 18 months of terminal hire rental amounts it wouldnt 
have to pay further to the end of its 36 month hire agreement. It didnt require T to pay all 
further payments when it asked to cancel the agreement. But it did refer to other charges in 
the agreements including a terminal restocking fee and a termination fee for the merchant 
services agreement. It wouldnt cancel the agreement unless these were paid and so without 
speaking to T further about them. This wasnt resolved, and T complained. I dont find 
Paymentsense made a mistake in requiring further charges to be paid in line with the 
agreements and in not cancelling.
As our investigator has set out Paymentsense made an offer to T in response to the 
complaint. That was that charges revert back to those before the increase, to refund six 
months of clientline fees and to pay the next three months of terminal rental fees. That was a 
goodwill gesture and given my findings I dont have a basis to require it to do anything else.
I appreciate how disappointed the partners of T will be.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Paymentsense Limited 
need do no more than it has already offered to.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman