DRN-2540081
The complaint
Mr Y says The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Britannia) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr Y took out a PPI policy in 1993 when he applied for a mortgage. He recalls the sale took 
place by phone and post, through one of the branches. Britannia has confirmed it is recorded 
as a branch sale. At that time PPI was compulsory on certain Britannia mortgages. The 
policy gave Mr Y accident, sickness and unemployment cover. He paid a monthly amount for 
the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr Y disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y has sent in a number of documents and clearly set out his observations both during this 
investigation, and in response to the adjudicators view. I have reviewed everything he 
submitted and considered his comments carefully. In keeping with our role as an informal 
dispute resolution service I will comment here only on those issues I find to be material to 
the outcome of his complaint. 
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is set out on our website and Ive followed it
here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I anticipate Mr Y will be disappointed, but I hope 
my explanation allows him to understand why Ive reached my decision. Where the evidence 
is incomplete, contradictory or inconclusive I have made my decision based on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I think is most likely given the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances.
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr Y had a fair choice about buying the
policy. He says it was compulsory that he signed up to the policy and he was tied into it for 
the 25-year term of his mortgage.
Britannia says taking PPI did form part of its conditions for certain mortgages  like this one, 
that offered a discounted fixed rate for two years, but this was made clear throughout and it 
was not for the life of the mortgage. If Mr Y didnt want PPI, he couldve chosen an 
alternative mortgage product or taken a mortgage with a different lender. 
I cant know what was said during the sale, but Ive thought carefully about Mr Ys comments 
and looked at the available paperwork.
Sometimes PPI policies were compulsory in order to secure a particular interest rate or a 
specific mortgage deal. In this case Mr Y wanted to take out a mortgage with a
discounted interest rate and that meant he had to take out PPI. But a lender can make a 
policy compulsory as it can decide and set the terms on which it is prepared to lend. So 
there was nothing wrong in that. And whilst the PPI was compulsory for Mr Y, I think that 
was something Mr Y had accepted in order to get the mortgage he wanted. Mr Y selected 
PPI on his mortgage application form and then signed a separate PPI application form. 
His PPI acceptance letter dated 28 June 1993 said, this product may be compulsory with 
your mortgage. And in the Special Conditions dated 18 May 1993 that went alongside his 
offer of advance it stated Buildings and contents insurance will be arranged under the 
Multiguard Scheme of the society and additionally Payment Plus insurance must be taken 
out. Should either policy be allowed to lapse before the first anniversary of completion of the 
advance, the Society reserves the right to withdraw all discounts and revert, during the first 
12 month period, the rate of interest to the societys standard variable base rate.
So Im satisfied Britannia made Mr Y aware it was a condition of his mortgage. And as Ive
said making PPI a condition of a mortgage doesnt mean it was mis-sold. Mr Y
couldve chosen a different product or to apply for a mortgage from a different lender if this 
wasnt the overall mortgage package he wanted. So this isnt a reason for me to uphold the 
complaint.
Mr Y says the PPI was compulsory for the term of the mortgage, but I disagree. I think the 
condition above makes it clear that to benefit from the lower interest rate he had to have PPI 
for the first year. He points to a paragraph in Britannias final response letter and section 8 in 
his mortgage terms and conditions that he says supports his understanding, but I wouldnt 
make the same inference. And in its submission to us Britannia has confirmed the policy was 
compulsory for just the first 12 months. Ive seen no evidence that Mr Y tried to cancel his 
PPI after 12 months but was unable to.
Mr Y also said that if he didnt take PPI he wouldnt have been eligible for the 0.25% 
reduction against the standard variable rate that his union membership qualified him for. But 
I havent been able to find any other evidence to support this claim. When his discounted 
fixed rate ended in 1995 Britannia wrote confirming he was now entitled to the 0.25% 
discount for the life of his mortgage. It did not say having PPI was a condition. The other 
related documentation is a letter from Britannia in 1997 about the union discount. This does 
not mention PPI at all. The only qualifying criteria is membership of the union. It also makes 
clear that the discount only applies once any fixed or discounted period ends  so assuming 
the same rules applied in 1993, which I think is not unlikely, at the time of this PPI sale Mr Y 
wouldnt have been able to benefit from both interest rate discounts. In the special conditions 
from May 1993 it set out that he could apply to transfer to the union scheme after the first 
anniversary of completion. Again it did not reference PPI being linked to this discount.
Overall, I think Britannia made it clear the PPI was a condition of Mr Ys mortgage, and he
agreed to take it out.
Britannia says it didnt recommend the policy to Mr Y, so it didnt have to check the cover 
was right for him. Mr Y initially said the PPI was recommended to him, later changing this to 
say its right to think it wasnt recommended - but thats because it was compulsory. I know 
he feels strongly he didnt need it. But even if Britannia had recommended the PPI to Mr Y 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances, I think the cover was suitable for him. I say 
this because:
Mr Y was eligible for the cover and it seems he wouldnt have been affected by any 
of the main things not covered by the policy.He was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if he was sick, but the 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 months. It also 
gave up to 12 months redundancy cover. And it would have paid out in addition to 
any redundancy payments from his employer, giving increased financial stability at 
an already difficult time. 
Mr Y had an endowment with profits life assurance policy, but the PPI would have 
meant he didnt need to surrender this long-term investment vehicle. I note it did 
indeed run until just a couple of months prior to maturity in 2020. He also had life 
insurance, but this offered protection in different circumstances and couldnt have 
helped with monthly mortgage repayments in the same way as PPI. Mr Y says his 
parents would have helped but thats not suitable alternative protection. Its not 
guaranteed, and peoples circumstances can change.
Mr Y was borrowing a significant sum over a long term secured on his home. Given 
the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments I think PPI couldve been 
useful for Mr Y in addition to his existing means.
I dont know at what stage during the sale the cost was first made clear. But the PPI
was reasonably priced for the benefit offered and apparently affordable. And after the 
first 12 months he could have cancelled the cover at any time if his circumstances 
changed, or if he no longer wanted it  without incurring any further cost. Indeed he 
could have cancelled it sooner if he was happy to move onto Britannias standard 
variable rate.
Britannia also had to give clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI so Mr Y 
could make a properly informed choice. And its possible Britannia didnt give
him as much information as it shouldve done. But for the same reasons Ive found the PPI
suitable, I dont think better information wouldve put him off taking out the PPI.
Mr Y says Britannia didnt tell him that it would receive commission for selling the PPI or that 
the cost of this formed part of the premiums he would pay. He has referenced two court 
cases that relate to commission paid on PPI policies and asked what our remit is with 
regards to the fairness of his relationship with Britannia under the Consumer Credit Act, 
1974. We take into account all relevant laws, guidelines and regulations in order to reach a 
fair and reasonable decision based on the individual merits of each case. But we wouldnt 
generally discuss the details of such court cases when presenting the findings of a 
complaint. An outcome can vary based on many factors. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued
some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI. The FCA said that 
if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI policy  more than 
50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could create an unfair 
relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that businesses should 
pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. 
These rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would still need to be covered by the Consumer CreditAct on this date. So the rules do apply to Mr Ys complaint. And based on what Ive seen I 
think Britannia has applied them correctly. It has paid back some of the cost of the policy to 
Mr Y because:
It got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr Y about that. Because Britannia didnt tell Mr Y, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Britannia has paid back the amount of commission and profit
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mr Y also raised concerns about what checks should have been done prior to lending and 
which of his employee benefits should have been considered when the deposit he needed to 
put down was agreed. But these issues relate to his mortgage, not the PPI, and have not yet 
been addressed by Britannia. So Mr Y should raise these points directly with Britannia first to 
give it chance to respond. He can of course then bring a new complaint to this service if he is 
unhappy with the response.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding Mr Ys complaint.
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Britannia) does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr Y.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Britannia) does have to pay back to Mr Y any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman