DRN-3504776
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK PLC allowed a Bounce Back Loan facility to be set up in 
his name and that he is liable for the £25,000 debt. He is also unhappy that the bank froze 
and later withdrew his banking facilities.
What happened
Mr C used to run a business as a sole trader. He held a business account in his sole name 
with Santander, through which he ran his business-related transactions.
Mr C says that he sold his business to a third party, who Ill refer to as Mr J, in December 
2017. He says that attempts were made to transfer the Santander account into Mr Js name 
over the years that followed, but without success. Mr C says that as a result and to assist 
Mr J, the account was left open and he provided Mr J with the relevant credentials to use the 
account and associated facilities.
In June 2020, Santander received a Bounce Back Loan application in Mr Cs name and 
quoting Mr Cs account details. Santander approved the request and the £25,000 loan was 
drawn down.
Mr C says that he discovered the loan had been taken out when reviewing statements for 
the bank account and noticing the £25,000 credit. While he was initially assured by Mr Js 
commitment to repay it, he later contacted Santander over concern as to his liability. 
Santander subsequently reviewed the position and terminated the Bounce Back Loan, 
issuing a demand to Mr C in March 2021 for its immediate repayment. The bank also closed 
Mr Cs business account.
Mr C complained to Santander. He didnt think it was fair that he was being held responsible 
for repayment of the loan, as he maintained that it had been taken out without his knowledge 
or consent by Mr J. He also thought the bank was at fault for declining to transfer the 
account to Mr J in line with their previous requests.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it had received three requests to change 
the account details between 2018 and 2020, but had declined each of these  and 
responded in writing to explain that it couldnt make the changes, and that to facilitate these 
the account would need to be closed and a new one opened. The account had remained 
open and it was through that account  in Mr Cs name  that the loan had been provided. If 
the account had been operated by a third party, this was a breach of the terms and 
conditions. So, given this and the potential fraud, Santander had closed the account and 
terminated the loan, which it maintained that Mr C was liable to repay. 
Mr C remained unhappy and asked us to look into the matter. He said that hed acted in 
good faith and didnt think it was fair for the bank to hold him responsible for a £25,000 debt 
that he didnt take out and which he had no means to repay, having retired and suffering ill 
health. He still thought Santander could and should have done more to assist in transferring 
the facilities over to Mr J when he made it aware that hed sold his business. He also said 
that the application hadnt been an attempt to defraud the bank and that Mr J was willing to 
make the necessary repayments. 
Our initial conclusions
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Cs complaint but didnt recommend that be upheld. 
She said, in summary, that:
Santander had various legal and regulatory responsibilities to which it must adhere in 
providing banking facilities. Given these, it wasnt unreasonable that Santander 
couldnt simply transfer Mr Cs bank account to Mr J on request. 
Santander had informed Mr C that the account would need to be closed and a new 
one opened in order to achieve the desired outcome.
Mr C was aware the account was still in his name, having confirmed receipt of text 
messages and correspondence over the years that hed passed on to Mr J.
Santander hadnt made an error in approving the Bounce Back Loan application. The 
application process was completed online and on a self-certified basis. The 
application in question had used all of Mr Cs correct information and been paid into 
the account held in his name. 
Given all of this, she thought Santander had acted reasonably in terminating the loan 
agreement and pursuing Mr C for repayment, and in how it had blocked and closed 
the bank account. While accepting that Mr C may not have benefitted from the loan 
funds, any abuse of the arrangements between Mr C and Mr J would be a matter to 
be raised elsewhere.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. He said hed not received any letters from 
Santander advising him to close the bank account and wouldve done so if hed been told it 
wasnt possible to transfer it to Mr J. He also said that Santander had declined to accept 
payments from Mr J towards the debt. So he asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr C says that this position wouldnt have arisen if Santander had done more to assist him 
when it was made aware of the sale of his business  either by transferring the account or 
explaining that this couldnt be done. Santander has explained that it couldnt simply the 
transfer the account from Mr Cs name into that of another customer and there are sensible 
reasons for that pertaining to the banks legal and regulatory obligations. The bank has also 
demonstrated that it wrote to Mr C in response to each of his three requests to make these 
changes explaining that they couldnt be done. In response to the first request in 2018, it 
said that a new account would be required to effect the change that Mr C was seeking. 
Similar responses were sent to subsequent requests made in 2020.Mr C said he didnt receive any of this correspondence. Its regrettable if thats the case, but I 
can see the letters were correctly addressed to his home address so thats not something I 
could hold the bank responsible for. I think it took reasonable steps to explain the position to 
Mr C and I wouldnt expect it to have done anything more in terms of advising him as to an 
appropriate course of action. Mr C was responsible for the sale of his business  which it 
should be noted wasnt a separate entity, having been run in his own name. 
Mr Cs bank account remained open and it is evident that he was aware it remained in his 
own name. From what he says, I understand he gave largely unrestricted access to the 
account to a third party. That represents a breach of the terms and conditions, while carrying 
with it the obvious risks and complications such a situation creates  not least the holding of 
funds and execution of transactions by one party in the name of another. 
Santander received a Bounce Back Loan application in Mr Cs name, with the details of 
Mr Cs bank account and so processed it accordingly. There is little evidence to confirm who 
submitted that application  whether it was Mr C, Mr J or someone else. It is also notable 
that the contact email address for the loan application was Mr Cs business email address, 
rather than the distinct one that Mr J uses. And given the account remained in Mr Cs 
name  and he therefore retained access to it  it is similarly difficult to verify whether he has 
had the benefit of the loan that was paid into it. But even accepting that Mr C didnt make the 
application, I dont think Santander had reason to suspect that or to question the information 
it received.  
Given all of this, I dont think there is any basis on which I could reasonably require 
Santander to release Mr C of liability for the loan. Even accepting Mr Cs version of events 
as to how the loan came about, I dont think it would be fair to apportion any responsibility for 
that to Santander  however much I might accept that Mr C acted in good faith, and 
empathise with the position he finds himself in.
On review of the situation in light of Mr Cs comments, Santander decided to terminate the 
loan and demand its immediate repayment. That course of action was permitted within the 
terms and conditions of the loan agreement. And I think it was reasonable, in view of the 
obvious concerns as to how the loan application was made, whether the recipient was 
entitled to the funds and how they were utilised (and by whom). I would add, though, that 
moving forward Id expect Santander to fairly consider Mr Cs repayment proposals in light of 
his circumstances and the broader situation that may exist. 
Santander also blocked and closed Mr Cs business account as well as his personal 
facilities. The terms and conditions of those accounts allowed Santander to take these 
actions and I think they were reasonable in view of the banks understandable concerns as 
to how these facilities were being operated.
I also understand that Mr C and Mr J have approached Santander with a request to transfer 
the loan into Mr Js name, which the bank has declined. Such a change to the government-
backed Bounce Back Loan is only an option in very specific situations, and I dont find the 
banks decision unreasonable in the circumstances here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Ben JenningsOmbudsman