DRN-4411339
The complaint
Ms E complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SW) provided her with poor service for her 
personal pension. She said she hadnt received her annual statements for the last three 
years. And that this failure was in breach of SWs fiduciary and contractual duties. She also 
felt that as her investments had fallen in value over the period she didnt receive annual 
statements, SW should compensate her for those losses. And refund all her fees and 
charges for this period. 
Ms E also complains that shes been unable to download secured attachments sent by SW. 
She feels its SWs error, and wants it to be corrected. 
What happened
Ms E has a personal pension plan with SW which started on 1 December 2011. I understand 
she lives overseas.
Ms E said that between 2017 and 2019, SW failed to provide her with annual statements. 
After she complained to SW, it paid her a total of £400 compensation in February 2019. 
£200 of this was in respect of the inconvenience Ms E had been caused, and £200 was to 
cover the cost of the international calls shed had to make. 
SW said that in 2019 Ms E had raised a complaint because her address hadnt been 
updated after shed notified it of her change of address in 2017, so shed failed to receive 
some of her statements. But it said that since then itd issued statements to her on time and 
by post. 
SW said that it had issued annual statements on the following dates:
28 December 2018 - 2018 annual statement.
6 February 2019 - Annual statements for 2016 and 2017. 2018 statement re-issued.
30 December 2019 - 2019 annual statement.
28 December 2020 - 2020 annual statement.
28 December 2021 - 2021 annual statement.
27 December 2022 - 2022 annual statement.
SW said itd sent notification emails to affected customers between 26 July 2022 and 11 
August 2022 about the fact that their online access would shortly be revoked. This was 
because the department that administered Ms Es pension had undergone a system 
migration which aimed to provide customers with greater access to their products. It said that 
it also carried out upgrades to the online service at the same time, which meant that it had to 
temporarily revoke it. And that on 13 August 2022, online access had been revoked for those 
affected customers.
Ms E said in the last week of February 2023, she told SW that she hadnt received any of her 
annual statements from the past three years. She held SW responsible for her not receiving 
her annual statements. She felt that this was a breach of its fiduciary and contractual duties. 
She said she had to make four costly international calls in the last week of February 2023 to 
request the missing statements for the last three years. 
SW said it issued policy information to Ms E in response to her request on 2 March 2023. 
This was an 18-page pack containing information about her pension, including the current 
value, which was £18,070.70. An investment change form was also included.
SW said that Ms E called it on 3 March 2023 to discuss why she couldnt see her documents 
online. And that once she received an email containing the information shed requested she 
still couldnt get the documents. SW offered to raise a complaint on her behalf. It noted that 
she wanted her annual statements to be displayed online, or to receive her annual 
statements in an email she could access. She felt SW hadnt provided what shed asked for. 
On 3 March 2023, SW emailed Ms E. It said it had attached the information shed requested. 
SW issued a 3-page pack which showed that Ms E had made no contributions into her 
pension in 2019. 
On 6 March 2023 Ms E emailed SW to tell it shed not received annual statements for three 
years. The same day, an SW complaint handler emailed Ms E to tell her she was dealing 
with her complaint. She asked Ms E to contact her by phone.
Ms E replied to the email the same day. She said shed already made three international 
calls on the issue and didnt want to incur any further charges. She felt it could be handled 
through emails. But she provided her phone number in case the complaint handler wanted to 
call her. 
The complaint handler tried to call Ms E, but couldnt get through. So she sent a further 
email on 6 March 2023. She told Ms E that she needed her bank details so she could make 
the redress payment. Later the same day, the complaint handler emailed again to tell Ms E 
that shed soon be sending her complaint response. The complaint handler also explained 
that it was a requirement to send any policy-related information in a secure email format. So 
she attached a guide on that to help Ms E. And told her that if she couldnt access the 
securely emailed letter she should reply to the email. 
On 6 March 2023, SW issued its final response to the complaint. It upheld the complaint. It 
apologised for the poor service and offered Ms E £210 for the inconvenience and to cover 
the cost of the calls shed made. It also explained that it would return online access in 
phases. And that while Ms E should have access again by the end of quarter one of 2023, it 
couldnt provide a definitive date. It also said itd issued the 2022 annual statement in 
December 2022 to the address it held on file. SW said itd downloaded a copy which it would 
issue alongside the complaint response.
Ms E said shed still only been provided with the 2022 annual statement on 3 March 2023. 
So she emailed SW again on 7 March 2023 to chase it for copies of the past three years 
annual statements. 
On 7 March 2023, SW emailed Ms E an 18-page pack containing information about her 
pension, including the current value, which was £18,352.95. An investment change form was 
also included.
Ms E emailed SW on 8 March 2023 to ask it how itd decided on the compensation amount 
of £210. She felt that it wasnt enough given her fund had made losses in the past three years which shed not been aware of as she hadn't received the annual statements. She 
said if shed known, she couldve chosen different funds. And felt SW was therefore 
responsible for her losses. 
SW issued a revised final response to the complaint on 9 March 2023. It said that £150 of 
the compensation itd paid was for the inconvenience itd caused Ms E. And £60 was in 
respect of her call costs. It also acknowledged that Ms E shouldnt have had to chase it for 
the annual statements again. 
SW said that although Ms E hadnt received the annual statements itd sent in the post, and 
had therefore felt that shed not been able to review how her policy had performed, it couldnt 
ensure delivery once the statements had been posted. It confirmed that itd issued the 
statements to the correct address. 
On 20 March 2023, Ms E emailed SW as it still hadnt sent her the past three annual 
statements. She felt this meant that itd been in breach of its fiduciary duties. She also said 
that she wasnt receiving any documents through the secure email which had been set up 
two weeks earlier, after shed complained about not receiving her statements. She also said 
that the secure email didnt store any documents. She said shed told SW about this before 
but nothing had changed. She asked it to look into this and provide a solution.
SW issued a further final response on 29 March 2023. It said itd issue the annual 
statements in separate emails. 
On 30 March 2023, Ms E emailed SW to tell it that when she opened the secured 
attachment itd sent to her, the annual statement for 2019 hadnt been included. She said 
there were no annual statements attached to the secured files. And asked SW to simply 
send her the annual statements for the past three years.
Unhappy with the situation, Ms E brought her complaint to this service on 30 March 2023. 
On 3 May 2023, she told this service that shed still not received the annual statements from 
SW.
On 5 May 2023, Ms E spoke to SW about her complaint. It then emailed her with the details 
of the discussion later that day. It said that Ms E still had an issue with secure emails. And 
was unhappy with the complaint handler that shed been dealing with. And the time and 
effort itd taken to complain. 
SW said that the postal service in the country Ms E lived in was known to be an issue. And 
that the UK postal service strikes were also having an impact. It also said that Ms E wanted 
to have 2019 and 2020 statements sent to her but secure emails wasnt working for her and 
she held SW responsible for this. 
SW issued a further final response to Ms E on 10 May 2023. It still felt it couldnt be held 
responsible if correctly addressed post didnt arrive. And it said in respect of the secure 
email service and the online system, Ms E had access to her online account. But she could 
also contact SW if she needed further help. 
Ms E told this service that she remained unhappy that shed not received any statements for 
the last three years, during which time the value of her funds had reduced. And that she was 
also unhappy that the secured emails she received didnt have the attachments they were 
supposed to have.
Our investigator asked SW what itd done to try to resolve the issue with the secured emails. 
He said that Ms E felt that she hadnt yet received a satisfactory response.SW said that itd sent Ms E a further email with an annual statement attached as a test to 
see if she could see and open the attachment. It said that itd asked her to tell it how the test 
worked out. And that once itd heard from her, it could decide what further action to take.
Our investigator asked Ms E if the test had worked. She said that shed received an email 
from SW. But that there were no attachments. She told this service shed contacted SW 
about this. 
SW told this service that itd tried several times to send Ms E a copy of her statement by 
secure email, and that itd provided her with additional information on how to access this, but 
shed told it she still couldnt see or access the statement. It said that as itd now tried 
everything it could to send Ms E statements securely by email, it felt there could be issues 
with the security options she had in place on her system. It said that itd therefore sent a 
copy of the requested information to Ms E by post, as this was what shed asked it to do in 
her latest correspondence.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. While he acknowledged that Ms E was still 
unhappy with the issue surrounding the secure email issue, he said he didnt have the 
evidence to hold SW responsible for this. He also felt that the £210 compensation SW had 
paid Ms E for the cost of the international phone calls and the inconvenience itd caused was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her complaint.
Ms E didnt agree with our investigator. She felt that sending her statements by post was the 
least secure option as she didnt receive them. She felt this showed that they were either 
being sent to the wrong address or stored somewhere on the way. Ms E felt that if SW 
continued to elect to send her statements by post which didnt reach her then it wasnt 
fulfilling its duty. 
Ms E didnt feel that the solution suggested, or the explanation shed been given, was good 
enough. She said that another UK provider she had dealings with stored statements online 
and allowed customers to access with their log in details. She felt this was much more easily 
accessible and secure. She said shed like SW to store her statements on her page in its 
website so she could easily access them with her log in details.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing for Ms E. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
Id first like to acknowledge that part of Ms Es later complaint to SW was about its complaint 
handler. But I dont have the power to consider complaints around complaint handling. So I 
wont comment further on this aspect of her complaint. 
I next considered if SW did what it shouldve done. 
Did SW do what it shouldve done?
SW told this service that it sent Ms E her annual statements by post, to the correct overseas 
address, for the last three years. It has provided this service with all of these statements. 
Therefore Im satisfied that the annual statements were sent on the dates detailed in the background section of my decision. 
I acknowledge that Ms E feels that SW is responsible for her not receiving her annual 
statements. And that it mustve breached its fiduciary and contractual duties. But as SW has 
provided evidence that it sent annual statements correctly, I cant agree with Ms E that it 
failed its duties. And I cant fairly hold it responsible for Ms E not receiving the correctly 
addressed letters. I say this because I agree with SW that it isnt liable for items lost in 
transit. And that it can re-issue anything on request.
I also acknowledge that Ms E considers that as she didnt receive her annual statements, 
and therefore didnt know how her funds were performing, she held SW responsible for the 
poor performance of her fund in 2022. But I cant reasonably hold it responsible. 
I say this for a number of reasons. Firstly, as I noted earlier, I dont hold SW responsible for 
her not receiving the annual statements as Im satisfied it sent them to her when it was 
supposed to. Secondly, Ms E couldve called SW for an update on her pension at any time. 
And if shed been unhappy with the performance, she couldve made a decision to change 
her holdings. Thirdly, for most of the period that Ms E said she didnt receive her annual 
statements, I understand she had access to an up-to-date value of her pension online. So I 
consider that she had a number of ways available to her of checking the performance of her 
investments, and then potentially deciding to change them, if she was unhappy with that 
performance over the period in question. And I cant reasonably hold SW responsible for the 
fact that Ms E didnt take any such actions. 
I also acknowledge that Ms E considers that if SW continue to send her statements by post, 
which wont reach her, then its not fulfilling its duty. But I cant fairly agree. Im satisfied that 
its fair and reasonable for SW to treat Ms E in the same way it treats all its customers, and 
to send her statements, correctly addressed, in the post. 
I next considered Ms Es complaint about her inability to access secure emails.
Access to secure emails
Ms E said she couldnt access attachments sent through the secure email system. And that 
the system didnt store any documents. She feels its SWs error, and wants it to be 
corrected.
SW has evidenced that it tried to work with Ms E to fix the issues she was having with 
secure emails, as Ive detailed above. It said that its now tried everything it could so that Ms 
E can use the secure email system, but she still cant access documents through secure 
emails. Therefore, having been unable to fix the system issues Ms E is facing, SW has said 
that it will continue to send Ms Es statements to her by post. 
I acknowledge that Ms E feels that sending her statements by post isnt secure. And that 
shed like SW to provide a similar service to that she receives from another UK provider she 
uses. But I cant fairly ask SW to do this. I say this because I dont have the power to tell a 
business how it must deliver information to its customers. And in any event, Ive not seen 
any evidence that SW has caused the lack of access here.
I also note that Ms E has access to her online account. And that she can also contact SW if 
she needs any further help. So Im satisfied overall that SW has done everything it shouldve 
done here. 
I finally considered if the compensation SW has paid Ms E in respect of the issues shes 
faced is fair.Distress and inconvenience
SW paid Ms E £150 compensation for the inconvenience itd caused her in having to chase 
the annual statements shed requested but not received. And £60 in respect of her call costs. 
It also acknowledged that Ms E shouldnt have had to chase it for the annual statements 
again. 
Ms E felt that the compensation wasnt enough given she felt shed made investment losses 
because of SWs failure to provide her with the annual statements in a timely fashion. But 
Ive explained why I dont consider that SW can be fairly held responsible for this, largely 
because Im satisfied that it did send the statements to Ms E when it was supposed to.
Therefore what I need to consider is whether the £150 payment SW has made to Ms E is 
sufficient for the impact the inconvenience of having to make a number of calls and write a 
number of emails to SW over a period of weeks had on her. Having done so, Im of the view 
that the compensation SW has already paid is sufficient under the circumstances.
Given this, I dont uphold the complaint. And I dont require SW to take any further steps to 
put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Ms Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman