DRN-3187743
The complaint
Mr P complains about the interest Santander UK Plc charged over the course of eight years 
on an outstanding credit card balance. Hes also unhappy he was told the account would be 
frozen whilst the complaint was investigated but this didnt happen.
Mr P is represented throughout this complaint by his son, also Mr P, but for ease Ill refer to 
him as Mr A. Mr P is also represented by Mrs M.
What happened
Mr P opened a credit card account with Santander in May 2010.
Following a visit to a branch of Santander in July 2019, Mr A complained on his fathers 
behalf about the interest that had been applied to the account over the previous eight years.
Mr A said Mr P was a vulnerable customer and didnt understand the consequences of 
accruing interest charges on his outstanding balance. By allowing interest to accrue for such 
a period of time, Mr A said Santander had acted in a cynical manner and not made 
significant effort to understand what was going on.
Mr A also said he was informed by an advisor when visiting the branch Mr Ps credit card 
would be frozen, and no further interest would be charged while the complaint was 
investigated. But he later found out this wasnt the case and a further £100 interest had 
accrued.
Santander investigated the complaint but said all interest and fees applied to Mr Ps account 
had been done so correctly. They said its a customers responsibility to ensure they can 
maintain their card and Mr P had been sent monthly statements informing him of his account 
status. Santander also said Mr Ps account had been open since 2010 with payments being 
made to it and theyd not been informed of any concerns before the complaint was raised.
Mr A didnt agree so referred Mr Ps complaint to our service. 
Whilst investigating the complaint there was a disagreement between our investigator and 
Santander about how far back our service could look into things. Its since been agreed that 
the complaint could be investigated in its entirety, so I wont be commenting further upon this 
within my decision.
One of our investigators looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint, saying he felt 
Santander had done all they could to make Mr P aware of the risks of not paying more than 
the minimum payment to his account each month. Our investigator also said hed seen 
nothing to say Santander had been made aware of any vulnerabilities at the time which 
wouldve given them cause to treat Mr P differently.
Im also aware during our investigation focus was placed on concerns such as the initial sale 
of the credit card account to Mr P which Mr A has confirmed werent ever concerns raised as 
part of the complaint to Santander. Mr A has kindly clarified the two concerns he considers 
to be the crux of the complaint which Ive set out above. So, it follows its those complaint 
points Ill be focusing on throughout my decision.
Mr A didnt agree that by sending Mr P letters Santander had done everything they couldve 
to help him. He pointed out they didnt try to ring him at any point over the course of eight 
years to try and understand his position.
Mr A believes Santander shouldve taken reasonable steps to ascertain whether Mr P was 
vulnerable or not in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance for firms on 
the fair treatment of vulnerable customers. He says after the initial 18 months of Mr P 
repeatedly paying the minimum payment Santander shouldve done more and have acted 
negligently by not doing so.  
As Mr A remained unhappy this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing the complaint, I didnt fully agree with our investigator. So I issued a 
provisional decision on 18 November 2021. In this I said:
Firstly, I am very sorry to hear that Mr P has had a difficult time. I acknowledge that his 
circumstances must have been extremely challenging for him and his family. That said, it 
isnt in dispute that Santander werent made aware Mr Ps health conditions which made him 
vulnerable until a complaint was raised in July 2019. So, it is for me to consider if I think 
Santander shouldve reasonably have had cause for concern before then.
Its important to say a credit card is a self-managed account. At the time of Mr P taking out 
the account he was 77 years old. Santanders actions of initially approving the account for 
Mr P in May 2010 arent in dispute and he went on to use the card regularly, paying off the 
balance in full each month until October 2011.
At this point Mr P began to make smaller repayments to his account, alongside increasing 
his spending. This meant over time his outstanding balance increased each month until he 
neared his agreed limit.
Over the course of the next eight years Santander sent Mr P multiple letters advising him the 
cost of his overall borrowing would increase if he continued to make the repayments he was. 
Mr P also received statements advising him of the status of his account.
Mr P continued to make repayments on time to his account, only exceeding his agreed limit 
by a very small amount on two occasions during that time. On both occasions Mr Ps 
account was brought back within his limit promptly by a payment being made in addition to 
his usual monthly payment for that month.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr P ultimately wasnt managing his account in the most cost-efficient 
way, he was managing it within the parameters the terms and conditions allowed. I see no 
signs, apart from Mr Ps age, which alone isnt a characteristic of vulnerability, I consider 
should reasonably have caused Santander to have acted differently.
It follows that I dont think Santander should refund the interest and charges added to Mr Ps 
account over the last eight years.
That brings me onto Mr As second complaint point  that when he complained in July 2019, 
he was told Mr Ps account would be frozen, stopping the accrual of interest and charges.
Whilst I wasnt present when this conversation took place, Im persuaded by Mr As 
testimony. I say this because Mr A says he paid off Mr Ps overdraft at the time and when he 
found out interest was continuing to accrue on Mr Ps credit card, he cleared the balance on 
the credit card as well.So, Im satisfied he wouldve more likely than not have done the same (paying off the credit 
card at the same time as the overdraft) had he have not been led to believe the account 
would be frozen.
In any case, it was at the time of Mr As visit to the branch on 1 July 2019, that Santander 
were made aware of Mr Ps vulnerabilities. So, I wouldve expected them to take this into 
account and act more empathetically especially whilst a complaint was fully investigated. 
Freezing any further interest or charges wouldve been a fair and reasonable action to have 
taken.
Because of this Im minded saying Santander should reimburse Mr P any interest and or 
charges applied to his account from 1 July 2019 to the date the balance was repaid.
Neither Mr A nor Santander agreed with my provisional decision. Ive considered their 
comments, but my decision remains the same. Ill explain why.
Mr A responded to say whilst he would not be contesting my provisional decision, he didnt 
agree with it, specifically noting my failure to understand the nature of Mr Ps health 
condition or to make reference to the FCAs guidance on vulnerable customers.
I understand this wasnt the outcome Mr A hoped for. I acknowledge Mr Ps health condition 
is of a very serious nature and no discourtesy is intended by me not mentioning it in detail. 
Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do 
this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander werent informed of Mr Ps vulnerabilities until July 2019 so I need to consider if 
they shouldve been aware from the information available to them. Mr P was managing his 
account within the parameters the terms and conditions allowed.  
I considered the FCAs guidance when reaching my decision, but it remains, for the reasons 
previously mentioned, I see no signs, apart from Mr Ps age, which alone isnt a 
characteristic of vulnerability, I consider should reasonably have caused Santander to have 
acted differently prior to July 2019.
Regarding Mr As second complaint point, Santander responded to say they didnt agree 
they should be liable to refund any charges after July 2019, because theyd not been 
provided with any medical evidence at the time to allow then to understand Mr Ps 
vulnerabilities. Ive thought about this, but it doesnt change my decision.
As Ive previously said, Im persuaded by Mr As testimony that he was told Mr Ps account 
would be frozen, stopping the accrual of interest and charges, when he visited the branch in 
July 2019. Put simply, had Mr A cleared the balance at the time, which he says he wouldve 
done had he not been led to believe it was being frozen, no further interest wouldve been 
charged.
I remain satisfied this is what Mr A wouldve more likely than not have done so I consider it 
fair and reasonable Santander should reimburse Mr P any interest and or charges applied to 
his account from 1 July 2019 to the date the balance was repaid.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to:
reimburse Mr P any interest and or charges applied to his account from               
1 July 2019 to the date the balance was repaid.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman