DRN-3192958
The complaint
Ms D has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a fee-
paying Royalties Gold account, that was sold to her in March 2009. RBS withdrew this 
account and transferred all Royalties Gold accounts (including Ms Ds) over to a Select 
Platinum account in July 2015.
Ms D says that she was in a financially vulnerable position when the Royalties Gold account 
was sold to her. She says she needed to borrow a lump sum of money. Ms D says that she 
received a sales call from RBS and says she was told that if she wanted to take out a 
mortgage, then she will need to have a Royalties Gold account. Ms D says that she had no 
need for the other benefits on the account as she already had them through her employer.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that the Royalties Gold 
account had been mis-sold.
Ms D disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ds complaint. Having done so, I am not 
going to uphold the complaint. I will explain why.
Firstly, I think it might help to explain that where matters are in dispute, I have to decide 
matters on the balance of probabilities. Or put another way, I have to decide what I think was 
most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available.
Ms D says that she received a cold call and explained to RBS that she needed to obtain an 
overdraft and a mortgage. Ms D says that the person she spoke to said that the only way 
she could get a mortgage was by taking out a Royalties Gold account. Whereas RBS 
disagrees that the account was mis-sold. RBS says that Ms D made substantial savings by 
having the packaged account and says that Ms D engaged with a number of the benefits 
provided by the account. It concluded by saying that it didnt think that Ms D agreed to the 
Royalties Gold account solely to obtain a mortgage and overdraft. 
Unfortunately, due to how long ago the conversation took place, there is no record of what 
exactly was discussed when the account was sold to Ms D. Therefore, I have to weigh up 
what Ms D can recall about the sale, alongside everything else that is available.
Based on what I know about the account at the time, I understand it cost £12.95 per month 
and provided a range of banking and insurance benefits. Included in these benefits, were 
special deals on mortgages, a £250 interest-free overdraft with preferential (compared to 
rates on fee-free accounts) interest rates on overdrawn balances above this amount (up to 
the agreed limit). It also provided preferential interest rates on loans and credit cards too.
Based on the level of post-sale engagement Ms D had with RBS about the account benefits, 
I think that Ms D was made aware of the features of the account when it was sold to her. So 
when Ms D agreed to it, I think she did so with a good appreciation of what it provided and 
what she was agreeing to.
However Ms D says that the account was presented in a way that made her think that it was 
her only option.
Looking through everything that Ms D has told us about her circumstances at the time, I 
dont doubt that obtaining an overdraft and mortgage was important to her at the time. This is 
reflected in the fact that Ms D successfully applied for a £2,000 overdraft limit, shortly after 
she opened the packaged account. And a short while after that (May 2009) she had a 
mortgage application approved by RBS as well.
However, two of the key banking benefits that the account provided included providing 
special deals on mortgages and a £250 interest free overdraft facility with reduced interest 
rates above that amount. I dont know if the mortgage product that Ms D ultimately ended up 
with included preferential terms as a result of Ms D having the Royalties Gold account. But 
given that Ms D was looking to take out both of these products at the time, I think the 
prospect of getting a good deal on her mortgage and overdraft wouldve been attractive to 
Ms D, and a strong reason why she agreed to the Royalties Gold account over a standard 
fee-free account. So when weighing everything up, I think its more likely that Ms D agreed to 
the Royalties Gold account because of the benefits it provided, rather than because she 
thought she had no choice in the matter.
I can see that the adjudicator said that the account was sold on a non-advised basis, 
whereas Ms D says that it was recommended to her. However, whilst its not clear on what 
basis it was sold, even if I thought that it was recommended to her, I dont think it was 
necessarily an unreasonable recommendation. I say this because, even though Ms D says 
she didnt need the insurance and other benefits provided by the account, Ms D went on to 
rely on, enquire about and register for a number of them. Which suggest that she was able 
to utilise the benefits of the account. And I also think its the case that recommending the 
account for the potential savings Ms D would be able to make on the banking products - that 
she was clearly intending to apply for once the upgrade took place - was not unreasonable 
either. 
Finally, I accept its possible that RBS might not have given Ms D all of the information about 
the account when it was first sold to her. But Ive not seen anything about Ms Ds 
circumstances at the time that makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, 
had she been given more information about the account and the associated benefits.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, on balance, I dont think that the Royalties Gold 
account was mis-sold. I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Ms D, and can 
see that Ms D feels that our service is being biased by not accepting her recollection of 
events as fact. But I would like to assure Ms D that I have carefully considered everything 
she has told us in reaching this decision.
 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman