DRN-3031205
The complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2009. 
The policy was cancelled in June 2010. Ms A says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-
sold her PPI. 
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Ms As 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but he thought Barclays offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Ms A paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Ms As representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  it didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments it had previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms As. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms As complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the 
commission it received, but that Barclays offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Barclays made it clear that Ms A didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Barclays sent in a copy of the sales script the adviser 
wouldve had to use, and I can see it required that the PPI was stated as being optional. 
It also sent in a copy of the letter to Ms A confirming her application for PPI, and theres 
nothing in there to suggest it was presented as being compulsory. 
 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Ms A so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Ms As circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example Ms A was eligible for the cover 
and she had limited means to fall back on, so she had a need for cover.
There was nothing about Ms As employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And although Ms A says she had had had health problems prior 
to taking out the PPI, I dont think it was wrong for Barclays to have recommended it. I 
say this because the policy only excluded cover for pre-existing medical conditions for 
which the policyholder had had symptoms, consulted a doctor or received treatment or 
received medication during the 12 months prior to the start of the insurance cover  and 
Ms A said her health problems had occurred before this time period. I can also see that 
the sales documentation shows Ms A confirmed this at the time of the sale, so the 
exclusion wouldnt have affected her ability to claim. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems.
Ms A also said she tried to claim on the policy when she left her job, but hadnt been 
aware that it wouldnt pay out if she resigned. However, I can see that the sales script 
required the adviser to state this exclusion, and its clearly shown on the policy summary 
she was sent afterwards. Ms A hasnt suggested she was planning to resign from her job 
when she took out the PPI, or that the adviser could reasonably have anticipated it. So I 
dont think the recommendation to take the policy was wrong. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms A about the PPI wasnt all as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms A as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her. Because of this I dont think Ms A would have declined the 
cover had Barclays done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Ms A would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy couldve 
provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Ms As representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Barclays should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Ms As representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Ms As individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Ms As particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms A.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the commission it received, 
and that Barclays offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Barclays didnt tell Ms A about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Barclays and Ms A was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Barclays didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms A because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Ms As representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on her complaint. In summary it has said Ms A should get back all the money she 
paid for the policy because Barclays failed to tell her about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because, 
it says, that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Ms A wouldnt have taken out 
the policy had she known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of 
all the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipconsumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Ms A in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Barclays not disclosing the high level 
of commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Ms As representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Barclays failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Barclays to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Ms A paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Ms A 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken out if Barclays had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Barclays payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances. As Barclays has already 
paid Ms A compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Ms As complaint or make any award in her 
favour for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC should pay Ms A an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As Barclays Bank UK PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that it 
should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman