DRN-3550779
The complaint
Miss L has complained that UK Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss L was given a guarantor loan of £5,000 in November 2018. The loan was repayable 
over 36 months with monthly repayments of around £252. If the loan ran to term, the total 
amount repayable including interest was just over £9,074.
Miss L complained that the loan wasnt affordable. One of our adjudicators looked into the 
complaint and didnt think that UK Credit had acted irresponsibly when it provided the loan. 
Miss L, through her representatives, disagreed with the adjudicators assessment.  As the 
complaint has not been settled, it has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans on our 
website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Ls complaint.
UK Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss L 
irresponsibly.  I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did UK Credit carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss L was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable 
and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss L in some other way?
UK Credit was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment (and a similar 
assessment on the guarantor). This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so UK Credit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss L. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for UK Credit to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss L. The existence of 
a guarantee and the potential for UK Credit to pursue the guarantor instead of Miss L for the 
loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or dilute this obligation. 
UK Credit had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss L 
would be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that UK Credit had 
to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, the length 
of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial circumstances. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Miss L. 
UK Credit asked Miss L for information about her income and expenditure and it acquired a 
credit report. UK Credit says the checks it carried out before it agreed to lend to Miss L were 
reasonable and proportionate, and that the loan was affordable for her. 
Ive reviewed the information that UK Credit gathered at the time including the credit report 
and a recording of the telephone call between Miss L and the lender. The credit report 
indicated that Miss L had outstanding credit of just under £5,000. Miss L said she also owed 
an amount to a family member. There was a defaulted account from nearly a year earlier 
with a default balance of £50, but I think it would have been reasonable for UK Credit to 
have considered this adverse information to be historic. 
Miss L told UK Credit that she was going to use its loan to consolidate her debt. UK Credit 
explained to her that if she didnt do so, then this new loan would most likely be 
unaffordable. Miss L told UK Credit gave money regularly to a family member but that she 
was living at home and paid only a limited amount towards bills. Overall, I dont think there 
was anything from the information gathered by UK Credit that ought reasonably to have 
caused the lender any additional concerns about Miss Ls financial position when she 
applied for the loan. Or that should have led UK Credit to reasonably conclude that her loan 
application should be declined.
From what I understand, UK Credit didnt request bank statements from Miss L when it 
assessed her loan application, but it did review bank statements provided by Miss L when it 
investigated her complaint. From what Ive seen, even if UK Credit had carried out more 
thorough checks at the time, such as requesting a bank statement, I cant fairly say that it 
ought reasonably to have concluded that it should decline Miss Ls application for the loan. 
I dont think UK Credit would reasonably have thought that Miss Ls bank account was 
showing significant signs of financial distress, such as frequently returned requests for 
payment or high bank charges for an unarranged or arranged overdraft. There doesnt 
appear to be regular or frequent borrowing from multiple short-term lenders, or high levels of 
gambling which might have signalled to UK Credit that Miss L was experiencing severe 
financial difficulties. 
Miss L may have been spending more than she had estimated with UK Credit. But in the circumstances, and given that UK Credit understood from Miss L that she planned to 
consolidate her existing debt, I cant fairly say that UK Credit ought reasonably to have 
concluded that Miss L was having such difficulties managing her finances that she would be 
unable to repay the loan sustainably.
Ive not seen anything which makes me think that UK Credit treated Miss L unfairly in some 
other way. And taking everything into account, I cant fairly say that UK Credit lent to Miss L 
irresponsibly. 
I know Miss L will be disappointed by my decision, but Id like to reassure her that I have 
carefully considered all the information that has been provided about this matter. Having 
done so, I do not uphold Miss Ls complaint about this loan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint or make any award against UK 
Credit Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman