DRN-1292244
Complaint
Mrs C took out a mortgage in 2008 with Halifax. However, St. Andrews Insurance plc is 
responsible for answering this particular complaint, so Ill mainly refer to it throughout this 
decision.
Mrs C says that during her mortgage application, a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy was mis-sold to her. She says MPPI was never really explained to her and she 
didnt need this type of cover.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mrs C its unlikely to be 
upheld. She disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mrs C. 
Her central point of complaint is that the MPPI wasnt explained properly. However, these 
events were quite some time ago now and whilst Im sure she will have provided her very 
best recollection of what happened, I dont think Mrs C is correct. 
This is because I can see she was sent a letter dated 27 March 2008 explaining that she had 
bought such a policy. The letter comprehensively explained what the cover was, how much it 
cost and how to change her mind if she wanted to. So I think its much more likely that Mrs C 
engaged in the sale process and agreed to the MPPI following a discussion with the 
mortgage adviser. I completely accept she doesnt remember all this now but I think her 
consent was properly obtained.
St. Andrews accepts it probably recommended this cover to Mrs C, so it had a duty to make 
sure it was suitable for her situation. Overall, I think it was.
This is because Mrs C appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. The price seems to me to be 
comparable with similar policies from around that time and Ive seen nothing that suggests it 
wasnt affordable for her. 
Ive thought very carefully about Mrs Cs job and the benefits it came with. But I dont think 
they made the MPPI unsuitable because her job-related sick pay was quite moderate. The 
mortgage was also secured against Mrs Cs home and so the consequences of her not 
being able to keep up payments could have been serious. In the event of a successful claim, the cover she bought was payable for up to 12 months and this would have been in addition 
to any other means she already had in place at the time. 
Mrs C also told us about her cash savings she had in place at the time, but these dont affect 
what I think about her case because these too were moderate. So although I cant say why 
Mrs C decided to buy this policy, I dont think it being recommended to her was 
unreasonable. I think the policy was suitable. 
St. Andrews also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm if she was told everything she ought to have been. But I can see 
the costs of the cover were set out, as were some details about what was covered. So I think 
she had enough information on which to make an informed decision.
Overall, I think theres strong evidence that Mrs C engaged in the discussions about this sale 
and went through a number of steps to get the policy. I dont think this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. And I dont direct St. Andrews Insurance plc to do 
anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman