DRN-2628763
The complaint
Ms J has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a fee-paying Advance 
account in January 2011. Ms J says that she was not made aware that the account was 
optional and that she could have a fee free account. Ms J has also explained that she never 
used any of the benefits that the account came with. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think the Advance account 
had been mis-sold. Ms J disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having done so, I dont think the 
packaged bank account was mis-sold to Ms J.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms J, but Id like to assure her that I have 
considered everything she has provided and said. I think it would be helpful to explain, that 
where matters are either unclear or in dispute, as they are here, I need to decide what I think 
is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence that is available. There is also very 
little information that HSBC has been able to provide from the time of sale, which is 
unsurprising given the timescales involved. 
Ive started by considering whether or not Ms J was given a fair choice in opening her 
account. Ms J says that she was not aware that she could continue to have a fee free 
account. In this case, I can see that Ms J already held a fee-free account with HSBC prior to 
opening the Advance account  so I think she was aware that fee-free accounts existed and 
were an option for her. Furthermore, in 2014 HSBC wrote to Ms J about changes that were 
being made to her account. Ms J was given the option to not accept the changes and to 
remove the fee-paying package from her account  but she didnt remove the fee-paying 
package from her account.
So I think it likely that had Ms J not wanted anything the account came with, she wouldve 
used this opportunity to downgrade her account and question why she held it in the first 
instance. 
I also note that shortly after the account was taken out Ms J contacted the travel insurer to 
make a medical declaration. Given that one of the features of the account was travel 
insurance and fee free overseas cash withdrawals, this suggests that this was possibly why 
the account was taken out. So when taking everything that I have seen on this case into 
account, I think its more likely than not that Ms J agreed to the Advance account. And this 
was likely because she was attracted (at least initially) to the features it offered, rather than 
because she felt she had no choice. I note Ms Js comments that she did not contact the 
insurer at this time, but the evidence provided from HSBC does suggest is was done in 2011 
around the time the account was taken out.
My understanding of HSBCs sales process at the time the account was taken out was that 
HSBC would make a personal recommendation as to whether the account was right for a 
customers individual circumstances. That means that the account had to be a reasonable fit 
for Ms J needs. In this instance the major benefits of the Advance account were travel 
insurance and breakdown cover. And Ms J has indicated that she did drive and the evidence 
suggests that she did travel. So overall I think that HSBCs recommendation was 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
I cant be sure if HSBC gave Ms J all of the important information about the account during 
the sales process. But I think the main benefits wouldve been highlighted to make the 
account seem attractive. I also cant see anything specific about the benefits of the account 
that Ms J may not have been told that wouldve likely altered her decision to take out the 
account. 
I appreciate that, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, Ms J may now feel that the account 
has been poor value for money and regrets opening a fee-paying account. But that doesnt 
mean that HSBC was acting unreasonably or unfairly by selling the account to her when it 
did. 
Overall, Ive not seen enough for me to say that Ms J was mis-sold the Advance account. I 
therefore think it would be inappropriate to require HSBC to refund the fees Ms J has paid 
for the account.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman