DRN-1164527
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that UK Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line Insurance) (Direct Line):
wrongly accepted liability under his motor insurance policy for a collision between his 
car and a third partys car; and
communicated this to the third partys insurer before discussing the issue with him.
 
 What happened
 
In March 2019, Mr M was in his car following diversion signs after the closure of part of a 
motorway. He was driving on a dual carriageway and was expecting to see a diversion sign 
at some stage directing him to exit the dual carriageway.
He approached a roundabout. The dual carriageway continued straight on after the 
roundabout, and another dual carriageway exited it at ninety degrees on the right hand side. 
Mr M couldnt see any sign ahead about the diversion. So he kept to the left hand lane in 
case he had to carry straight on at the first exit.
When he entered the roundabout, there was no diversion sign directing him to the first exit. 
So he carried on round the roundabout in the left-hand lane towards the exit on the right of 
the roundabout.
Unfortunately, a third party (TP) car going along the dual carriageway approached the 
roundabout in the right hand lane alongside Mr M, intending to continue straight on along the 
dual carriageway at the first exit. As the TP car exited the roundabout, it collided with Mr Ms 
car continuing round the roundabout.
Mr M notified Direct Line about the accident. Mr M and the TP each held the other 
responsible for the collision. On 15 April 2019, Direct Line wrote to Mr M as follows:
Following a review of the incident circumstances, it is our experience that you will be held 
responsible for this incident. As a result any claim received from the other party will be 
settled on the best possible terms..
If we do not hear from you within the next 14 days we will assume that you do not wish to be 
contacted and our decision on how to deal with the other party's claim is accepted.
This claim will be registered as a fault claim on your policy.
Mr M did contact Direct Line within 14 days to say he disputed its decision. But he was told 
the matter had been settled and TPs insurer told that liability was accepted. He complained 
to Direct Line. He quoted the following provision of the Highway Code, which he said indicated that as there were no special markings, TP should have used the left hand lane, 
when a collision wouldnt have occurred:
Section 186
This section of the Highway Code explains the signals and positions required to exit a 
roundabout safely. Follow the rules and you will find manoeuvring roundabouts to be much 
less stressful.
When taking the first exit (unless signs and markings indicate otherwise):
Signal left and approach the exit in the left hand lane
Keep to the left on the roundabout and signal left to leave
When taking an exit to the right or going full circle (unless signs or markings indicate 
otherwise):
Signal right and approach the exit in the right hand lane
Keep to the right on the roundabout until you need to change lanes to reach your exit
Signal left after you have passed the exit before the one you intend to take.
Direct Line didnt accept his complaint. It said he had entered the roundabout in the left hand 
lane intending to take the furthest exit on the right. According to the Highway Code Mr M 
was therefore in the wrong lane for the exit he intended to take.
Direct Lines claims department had reviewed all the evidence, and in accordance with the 
policy terms was entitled to take over and carry out the negotiation of any claim in Mr Ms 
name. Direct Line wouldnt, therefore, take his complaint any further.
Mr M complained to us. He said:
he had no intention about which exit he would take when he entered the roundabout 
as he was looking for diversion signs to tell him which way to go;
according to the Highway Code TP was in the wrong lane to take the first exit;
Direct Line shouldnt have settled the claim  within the 14 days it told him he had to 
respond to Direct Line; and
it should treat his claim as non fault so that his no claims discount (NCD) wouldnt 
be affected.
 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said it wasnt 
our role isnt to decide who was at fault for causing an accident; that was a matter for the 
court to decide. Our role was simply to investigate whether an insurer had acted fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with the policys terms and conditions.
Mr Ms policy included the following provision:
We are entitled to:
Take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your 
name, or in the name of any other person covered by this policy;
 So Direct Line had power to conduct a claim as it considered appropriate. But it had to do so 
reasonably.
He said Direct Line had based its decision on the version of events and diagrams provided 
by Mr M. He understood that Mr M was following diversion signs, but he was still in the 
wrong lane to be going around the roundabout. From the satellite image of the roundabout, 
which Direct Line had provided, he could see there were two lanes to each entry and exit 
point of the roundabout.
As there were two lanes to come off the roundabout, he didnt think it was unreasonable for 
Direct Line to believe that a car could exit from the right hand lane. This was due to the cars 
in the left lane also exiting at the first exit  but into the first lane.
Insurers dealing with claims were entitled to try and mitigate any costs. If they didnt think 
they had a reasonable chance of winning a claim in court, they were entitled to settle the 
claim before it got to that stage. So he didnt think Direct Line had acted unreasonably in 
taking this approach.
Mr M responded to say, in summary, that:
while the policy terms allowed Direct Line to make an informed decision about the 
incident, it had made a decision, and communicated it to TPs insurer within the 
response time it said he would have. This meant he wasnt given the opportunity to 
discuss the matter in more detail; 
the Highway Code provisions meant the TP car should have been in the left hand 
lane to leave the roundabout at the first exit. If it had been, he wouldnt have been in 
its path; and
he wanted his NCD to be reinstated. He mentioned that he had been careful to 
reduce the amount Direct Line had to pay to repair his car by selecting a lower repair 
quote.
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has explained, it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for an 
accident, but whether in considering a claim the insurer has acted fairly and reasonably, and 
in accordance with the policy terms. 
Im satisfied Direct Line considered carefully all Mr M had to say about the circumstances of 
the accident. It understood what he was saying about the Highway Code provisions he 
referred to. But in the circumstances of the particular road layout, it thought, in its 
experience, that Mr M rather than the TP driver would be held responsible for the collision if 
the claim proceeded to court. 
Accordingly, it decided it would have to accept liability on his behalf, as it was entitled to do 
under the policy terms.
I agree that Direct Line shouldnt have communicated its decision to TPs insurer until the 
response time it had allowed Mr M had expired, in case he produced further evidence that 
caused it to change its mind. However, when he complained about this, Direct Line quickly 
conducted a full review of the claim. Having done so, it decided that he hadnt provided any further evidence, and so there was 
no reason for it to come to a different decision. 
I understand that Mr M is unhappy that he should be held at fault for the collision, and at the 
effect this will have on his NCD. However, having considered everything, I cant say that the 
decision Direct Line came to was unreasonable, or contrary to the policy terms. 
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against UK Insurance 
Limited (trading as Direct Line Insurance).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman