DRN-3331926
The complaint
Ms B on behalf of Limited Company T has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited (RSA)s poor service which led to a County Court Judgment (CCJ) set 
against T. RSA is dealing with a claim made under Ts commercial vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
T held a commercial vehicle insurance policy with RSA and was involved in an incident with 
a third party in November 2019. 
In March 2020 T received a court summons which Ms B forwarded to RSA. RSA passed the 
summons to solicitors to deal with on its behalf. But RSA didnt follow up and the solicitors 
didnt act on it. 
At the end of May 2020 T received notice of a CCJ being registered against them for unpaid 
claim costs by the third party. Ms B contacted RSA and in July 2020 she raised a complaint. 
Ms B said that the CCJ being recorded against T had caused reputational damage. She said 
creditors had contacted T raising concerns and on checking, found that Ts credit rating had 
reduced significantly as a result of the CCJ. Ms B said T had built up a strong reputation 
over almost 20 years which she said had been damaged by the CCJ.
Ms B wanted RSA to remove the CCJ and to pay compensation to reflect the impact of the 
reputational damage to business T. 
In September 2020 solicitors on behalf of RSA told Ms B that it had requested the CCJ be 
set aside. In October 2020 RSA responded to Ms Bs complaint and upheld it. It offered a 
compensation award of £1,000 and asked for Ts bank details to pay the award. RSA 
apologised for what went wrong. It said it correctly forwarded the information to its solicitors 
 so it couldnt tell why it hadnt been actioned. But RSA said it should have followed up a 
week later and failed to do this. It said this had happened just as the first lockdown due to 
the Covid 19 pandemic was put in place. RSA said it believes the change in working may 
have been the reason why it failed to follow up. 
Ms B on behalf of T brought the complaint to us. She didnt think the compensation award 
offered by RSA reflected the damage its failing had caused to T. While she couldnt quantify 
the amount, Ms B was seeking a sum in the region of £10,000 from RSA. Ms B said she 
wanted the award to have an impact on RSA so that it ensured this didnt happen again. Ms 
B felt RSA had used the pandemic as an excuse. 
Our Investigator thought RSAs offer of £1,000 compensation and having the CCJ set aside 
was fair. But in addition he thought RSA should write to the creditors that had contacted T 
and confirm that the CCJ had been registered as a result of RSAs error and not because of 
Ts actions as a Limited Company. 
RSA accepted the Investigators findings. Ms B didnt agree. In summary she says theres no 
way of knowing how many creditors and companies saw the registered CCJ against T to 
appreciate the possible extent of the reputational damage. She says RSA should be 
penalised for the error it made. 
Our Investigator explained our role and the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). In 
doing so he explained that he considered the merits of the complaint brought by T and what 
remedy he thought was fair to put things right in this case.
Ms B wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that RSA didnt do enough when it was made aware of the intention by the 
third party to pursue a claim against T. Ms B made RSA aware through their broker in March 
2020. RSA should have ensured the solicitors had received its instructions and were dealing 
with the matter on behalf of T. Had RSA done this, I think its very likely that the registering 
of the CCJ would have been avoided. 
When considering the impact of an insurers failing, we can only consider inconvenience 
caused to a Limited company, not distress as a company cannot experience distress. But we 
can consider the impact of reputational damage. 
In this case Ms B explained that it isnt possible to quantify the potential impact of the 
registering of the CCJ against T. Im in no doubt that there was an impact as Ms B has 
provided an email from one of their creditors raising the change in risk for T as their credit 
score reduced significantly. 
However, as the Investigator explained, it isnt our role to punish a business - but to look at 
each case on its own merits. When something has gone wrong, we look at what the 
business did to put things right and if this was reasonable and in line with our approach. 
I can see that in October 2020 RSA provided evidence to T that the CCJ had been set aside 
and Ts credit rating had been restored. I agree with the Investigators recommendation for 
RSA to confirm its error in writing, but for ease I think RSA should provide an open letter to 
explain that the CCJ was registered as a result of an error caused by it and not in connection 
with anything T had done wrong. T can forward a copy of this letter to the parties it wishes to 
tell.
I understand Ms B will be disappointed with my decision. But I think these actions by RSA 
along with a compensation award of £1,000 are enough to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do the following:
 Pay T £1,000 for the inconvenience and reputational damage caused to the Limited 
Company 
 Write an open letter to T to explain that the CCJ was registered as a result of an error 
caused by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited and not as a result of any actions by T. 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Ms B on behalf of T accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this 
it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date 
of payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms B on behalf of T how 
much its taken off. It should also give Ms B on behalf of T a tax deduction certificate if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman