DRN-3785817
The complaint
Miss S complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited trading as Moneybarn put negative 
information on her credit file due to a missed payment. She would like the negative 
information removed ,and compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known so I wont repeat them again here . Instead I will 
focus on giving the reason for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate it must have been stressful for Miss S to have been involved in a car 
accident. I have listened to the call she made to Moneybarn the day after the 
accident. Although Miss S told us Moneybarn advised her to stop her direct debit 
payments it did not do so in that phone call. And I have seen no other evidence that it 
did.  So, as Miss S chose not to make one of the payments she was obliged to make 
under her agreement , I dont think Moneybarn were wrong to record the missed 
payment on Miss Ss credit file
Moneybarn has accepted its customer service was poor with long wait times, calls 
not being returned and an early settlement form not being sent as promised. Overall 
is concluded it didnt handle Miss Ss complaint in a timely manner and I would agree 
with that.
I have noted from the final response letter that Moneybarn made a payment of £50 to 
Miss S to reflect the customer service. In addition, it concluded that if it had handled 
her complaint more quickly Miss S might have resolved the arrears on her account 
sooner. To recognise this, it removed the adverse data due to the missed payment 
on Miss Ss credit file. And credited her account with  £182.41 to clear the arrears on 
the account. I think that was a reasonable response in acknowledgement of not 
handling her complaint in a timely manner.
I appreciate Miss Ss personal circumstances and the stress she has told us this 
situation caused her, but I cant agree that its reasonable to ask Moneybarn to pay 
additional compensation. There is no evidence Moneybarn told Miss M to cancel her 
direct  debit payment which is what led to the adverse data on her credit file. I think 
the £50 Moneybarn initially gave Miss M and the £182.41 it credited to her account is 
reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman