DRN-3816304
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by Mulberry Wealth Management Limited (Mulberry 
Wealth) to transfer out of the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) and invest the funds in 
a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and is 
concerned this has caused him a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including de-coupling the BSPS from the company. There was a consultation 
with members which referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits. This 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit (DB) scheme. Members were also informed that they could transfer their benefits to 
a private pension arrangement.
Mr H stopped working for his employer around February 2017 and quickly found 
employment with a new firm. His new role offered its own defined contribution (DC) 
scheme, which he had joined.
In May 2017, the PPF made an announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. The announcement said that, if risk related qualifying 
conditions relating to size and funding were satisfied, a new DB pension scheme sponsored 
by Mr Hs now ex-employer would be set up. This was to be known as BSPS2. The 
Pensions Regulator then approved the RAA on 11 August 2017.
Like most individuals affected by this, Mr H was concerned about what the announcement by 
his ex-employer meant for the security of his defined benefits held within the BSPS scheme. 
Mr H was unsure about what do with his pension.
So, he approached Mulberry Wealth in August 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement 
needs. He had a pre-existing relationship with Mulberry Wealth, having previously obtained 
advice from them on insurance and his mortgage.
Mulberry Wealth completed a fact-find in October 2017 to gather information about Mr Hs 
circumstances and objectives. It was noted that Mr H was aged 36 and had recently been 
married. He didnt have any children at present. He and his wife were looking to purchase a 
larger property in about a years time. They were intending to fund this through the sale of 
their existing property as well as the sale of the existing buy to let property they had at that 
time.
Mulberry Wealth also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk, which it deemed 
to be moderate (3/5). It was noted that he wanted to retire early if possible, at 55 years old 
with an income of between £15,000-£20,000 per year.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them three options. The three options were to stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, 
move to the BSPS2 or to transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their 
choice was 11 December 2017 and this was later extended to 22 December 2017.
On 6 November 2017, Mulberry Wealth advised Mr H to transfer out of the BSPS into a SIPP 
with LV and invest the proceeds (the majority with Brewin Dolphin in their discretionary 
portfolio and a small amount in the Vanguard Life Strategy 60% Equity (series 2)). The 
suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
It met Mr Hs objective of severing the link between his pension and his employer.
Mr H did not wish to enter the PPF or switch into the new BSPS2 scheme.
Mr H wished to have control over his fund and flexibility of his options at retirement 
and to benefit from the new pension freedoms rules.
It would allow Mr H to retire early at age 58, either reducing his hours or stopping 
work altogether.
When Mr H retired, he could access the portion of tax-free cash (TFC) he required, 
without having to withdraw the full amount so it can continue to be invested within 
his pension plan. Mr H could also access a greater amount of TFC.
Mr H could choose to take additional or ad-hoc TFC or income payments at any time 
in the future.
It would provide flexible death benefits for Mr Hs family.
Any contributions would be invested in funds which benefited from a tax-efficient 
status and when Mr H came to draw benefits from the plan, he could take up to 25% 
of the fund tax-free.
Mr H accepted the advice and, in January 2018, £419,554.37 was transferred to his new 
pension.
Mr H complained in 2021 to Mulberry Wealth about the suitability of the transfer advice 
because hed spoken with ex-colleagues and said when he looked at the advice checker on 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website, he found a lot of red in the advice process. 
He says he therefore became concerned about the advice hed received.
Mulberry Wealth didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. They said they had exercised reasonable 
skill and care in advising Mr H and their advice meant that Mr H was able to make a properly 
informed decision to proceed. They referred back to the reasons given in the suitability 
report as to why the advice they had given was suitable and said they were satisfied they 
had complied fully with their regulatory obligations. They also said that in their view, Mr H 
would have transferred out of the scheme regardless of the advice they gave to him.
Mr H referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. The Investigator upheld 
the complaint and required Mulberry Wealth to pay compensation on the basis that Mr H 
would have gone into the BSPS2. They werent persuaded that Mulberry Wealth had 
sufficiently challenged Mr Hs apparent objectives. And, they concluded that the stated 
objectives werent sufficient justification for transferring out of the scheme. They noted that 
Mr H was only 36 at the time of the advice, and so they felt there wasnt sufficient reason for 
him to transfer at that point, rather than waiting until he was older, when his retirement 
objectives and needs would be clearer. The Investigator noted Mulberry Wealths comments 
that Mr H was adamant he wanted to transfer out, but said that as the professional advisers 
in the transaction, Mulberry Wealth had a duty to advise the best course of action, even if 
that wasnt something Mr H wanted to do.
Mulberry Wealth disagreed, saying they remained of the view that, in line with their 
regulatory duties, they took reasonable steps to ensure that the advice provided to Mr H was 
suitable and that the transfer itself was suitable based on Mr Hs circumstances and objectives at the time. They disagreed with the Investigators approach to assessing the 
complaint and felt theyd adopted an unreasonable approach to the reliability of Mr Hs 
retirement objectives. They didnt feel it was reasonable to rely on a comparison between the 
critical yield and the relevant discount rate when referring to these discount rates wasnt a 
regulatory requirement. They said it was a flawed assumption that Mr H had the option at the 
time of the advice of transferring to BSPS2 because it was mistaken that BSPS2 already 
existed or would inevitably come into existence so that transfers into it would proceed. 
Lastly, they said the Investigator had not placed adequate weight on the fact that Mr H made 
a fully informed decision to proceed with the transfer and said there was no evidence Mr H 
had lost out as a result of the advice.
Mulberry Wealth requested a hearing as they felt it would be appropriate for the 
Ombudsman considering the case to hear oral evidence from both Mr H and the adviser 
before they made their final decision in order that the complaint be fairly determined.
The Investigator responded to Mulberry Wealths further points. They said they agreed that 
the adviser had a duty to obtain relevant information from Mr H, and they were entitled to 
rely on the information he provided. But they said Mulberry Wealth also had a duty to use 
that information to provide advice that was in his best interests.
The Investigator said it was unrealistic to expect Mr H to have had any firm understanding at 
the age of 36 of what his financial needs would be in retirement and clarified they didnt 
accept the objectives and reasons for the transfer were reasonable. Lastly, the Investigator 
explained they still felt basing the redress on BSPS2 was appropriate because if Mulberry 
Wealth had advised Mr H not to transfer, some months after, Mr H would have had to 
choose between BSPS2 and the PPF. And the Investigator felt Mr H would have opted for 
BSPS2 when making that choice, for the reasons previously stated.
As the Investigator ultimately wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, the complaint was 
referred to me to make a final decision.
Before issuing my final decision, I considered Mulberry Wealths request for a hearing in 
detail. I wrote to Mulberry Wealth on 16 October 2023 explaining the reasons why I didnt 
consider a hearing to be necessary for me to fairly decide this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided extensive submissions. And, Id like to reassure both parties that 
Ive carefully considered everything thats been provided. If I havent commented on, or 
referred to, something that either party have said, this doesnt mean I havent considered it. 
Rather, that Ive focused here on addressing what I consider to be the key issues in deciding 
this complaint and explaining the reasons for reaching my decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsThe below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Mulberry Wealths actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
Mulberry Wealth have said that the adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the advice was suitable for Mr H. I do agree that under COBS Mulberry Wealth were 
required to take reasonable steps to ensure the recommendation given to Mr H was suitable 
for him (COBS 9.2.1). However, as outlined above, additional regulations and guidance 
apply to providing advice on transferring out of a DB scheme. These say that the starting 
assumption for a DB transfer is that it is unsuitable. And, a business should only consider a 
transfer out if it can clearly demonstrate that the transfer is in the consumers best interests 
(COBS 19.1.6G). So, Im satisfied that since Mulberry Wealth was advising on a transfer out 
of a DB scheme, it was expected to clearly demonstrate that doing so was in Mr Hs best 
interests.
Having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied Mulberry Wealths advice was in 
Mr Hs best interests. Ive explained why below.
Uncertainty around the BSPS and BSPS2
As noted above, the BSPS closed in March 2017 and by the time Mr H approached Mulberry 
Wealth, the situation had been evolving since then. Its well known that this was a period of 
uncertainty for people in Mr Hs situation. This emphasises the need for consumers like Mr H 
to have received a balanced assessment of the options and suitable advice accordingly.
There may be instances where a consumer seeks financial advice with pre-existing ideas or 
concerns about their employer and associated pension scheme. Its clear here that Mr H did 
already have concerns about his ex-employer. And, its notable that according to the advice 
documentation, Mr H was adamant to Mulberry Wealth that he wanted to transfer his 
pension benefits away from the control of his ex-employer. So, its likely he was leaning 
towards transferring his pension when he approached Mulberry Wealth for advice.
However, as the professional adviser, Mulberry Wealth was tasked with rationally addressing 
Mr Hs concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the situation and options 
available. And again, in order to recommend that Mr H should transfer out, Mulberry Wealth 
needed to clearly demonstrate that doing so was in his best interests.
At the time Mr H approached Mulberry Wealth, there was still a possibility that his pension 
could move to the PPF. In response to the Investigators view on the complaint, Mulberry Wealth said that the BSPS2 may not have gone ahead. But, its notable that Mulberry 
Wealths TVAS and suitability report make appropriate comparisons between Mr Hs likely 
pension entitlement from the BSPS2 and from an alternative arrangement. Mulberry Wealth 
also clearly set out in their suitability report that the BSPS2 was one of the possibilities it was 
considering for Mr H.
Additionally, in May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of the RAA had been agreed. 
The Pensions Regulator approved the RAA on 11 August 2017. The confirmation that Mr Hs 
ex-employer had made the required payment for it to go ahead was announced on 
11 September 2017. And in October 2017, prior to Mulberry Wealth giving its final 
recommendation for Mr H to transfer out of the scheme, the BSPS trustees had provided 
details of the BSPS2 to members via the Time to Choose leaflet. So, from the evidence 
available, it would seem that Mulberry Wealth did at the time think  correctly, in my opinion - 
that it was more likely than not that the BSPS2 would go ahead.
So, while entry into the PPF was still a possibility, I think this was unlikely to be Mr Hs only 
option to remain in a DB scheme structure. And, even if Mr H remained concerned about the 
possibility, however small, of the BSPS2 not happening or moving into the PPF itself, 
Mulberry Wealth could have addressed that concern.
Moving to the PPF would mean, generally speaking, a reduction of around 10% in retirement 
income and less generous yearly indexed pension increases. And, while I understand that 
the prospect of their benefits moving to the PPF may have been daunting for some 
consumers, its probably the case that it wasnt as significant as many BSPS scheme 
members believed.
It follows that Im not persuaded the uncertainty Mr H experienced when he started the 
advice process was sufficient reason for Mulberry Wealth to recommend he transfer out, 
even a scheme with the possibility of going into the PPF. The reason being that to do so 
would mean unnecessarily exposing those funds to the volatilities and risks of the 
investment markets. So, I dont think those concerns should have been a significant driver in 
Mulberry Wealth recommending Mr H transfer out of his DB scheme altogether.
Financial viability 
Mulberry Wealth carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) (as required by the 
regulator) showing how much Mr Hs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order 
to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). For the avoidance of 
doubt, the figures Ive quoted below are reflective of the TVAS.
The advice in this case was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 
similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mulberry Wealth has highlighted that there was no obligation on them to refer to discount 
rates when giving advice, which I acknowledge. However, there was nothing preventing 
them from doing so either. Under COBS 19.1.2, the regulator required businesses to 
compare the benefits likely to be paid under the consumers DB scheme with the benefits 
payable under a personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. I think the discount 
rates do provide a useful indication of what growth rates would at the time have been 
considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. So, in my view, those would therefore be a reasonable assumption to use to compare the benefits likely to be paid under 
a personal pension with those payable under the DB scheme.
Mulberry Wealth also said the critical yield is of limited relevance because its based on the 
growth required to produce a fund sufficient to purchase an annuity on the same basis as the 
benefits provided by the DB scheme. Mulberry Wealth have said an annuity wasnt 
contemplated in Mr Hs case as he did not have a need for income over the long term and so 
an annuity or fixed income arrangement wasnt a suitable solution for him. So, overall, 
theyve said the critical yield doesnt provide a useful comparison with the benefits Mr H was 
looking for based on his objectives.
Ive taken these points into account, but the regulator required Mulberry Wealth to consider 
the rate of investment growth that would need to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up. So, Mulberry Wealth needed to provide an analysis based on the critical yield. 
Furthermore, I do think it is a relevant consideration in this case as Mr H wasnt expecting to 
retire for at least another 18 years (age 55). So, I dont think Mr H could realistically be 
certain at this stage whether he would want to take a regular income at retirement or not. Its 
entirely possible that when he was closer to retirement, he would want at least some regular, 
guaranteed income, which could be achieved through the benefits offered by the DB 
scheme.
Mr H was 36 at the time of the advice and thought he would like to retire at 55. The 
schemes normal retirement age was 65. For clarity, Ive set out the relevant critical yields 
below, including where a reduced pension and TFC is taken:
Age 55 Age 65
Scheme Full pension TFC and 
reduced 
pensionFull pension TFC and 
reduced 
pension
BSPS2 7.41% 6.43% 6.35% 5.62%
PPF 6.98% 6.68% 5.67% 5.42%
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.4% per year for 18 years to retirement at age 55 or 4.7% for 28 years to retirement at 
age 65. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged 
since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Hs 
moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In this case, the discount rate and 
the regulators middle projection rate is lower than the critical yield, even if Mr H took TFC 
and a reduced pension at age 65. So, this would indicate there was little potential for Mr H to 
improve on his benefits by transferring. There would be little point in Mr H giving up the 
guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level 
of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 5.42%, I think 
Mr H was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme 
at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. This would be the case 
even if the scheme moved to the PPF and he retired closer to age 65.
Additionally, if there was an extended period of poor performance, that could result in Mr H 
being worse off in retirement. And, by transferring, Mr H would have to pay the fees and 
charges associated with a personal pension, reducing any gains the funds did make. Mr H 
would not have had to pay these charges if he had opted to join the BSPS2.For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Hs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Mulberry 
Wealth has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer 
is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
When considering these other reasons given for the transfer, Ive borne in mind that 
Mulberry Wealths role wasnt simply to facilitate what Mr H said he wanted. Their role was to 
find out in sufficient detail Mr Hs wants and needs and the reasons for these, challenging 
and analysing his motives appropriately.
Flexibility and income needs
Mulberry Wealth said that transferring out of the scheme would allow Mr H to retire early at 
age 58. However, from what I can see, Mulberry Wealth dont seem to have looked at 
exactly what Mr Hs income need would be in retirement or how he would meet it if he did in 
fact retire early.
I can understand Mr Hs apparent wish to retire early, as most people would. However, I also 
think most people would understand that having the opportunity to retire early isnt worth 
compromising the security of their income for the rest of their life. And retiring early would 
likely mean a significant drop in their income, reducing their spending power and lifestyle. 
When faced with such a prospect, I think most people choose to continue working, rather 
than retire early. And so, I think Mr H was likely to reassess this once he reached or neared 
the age of 58. So, I think for Mr H retiring early was a nice to have if possible as opposed to 
a genuine, concrete need at the time of the advice. And Im not satisfied from the evidence 
that Mulberry Wealth seriously challenged this objective as they should have done.
Even if he did wish to retire early, Im satisfied Mr H didnt need to transfer out in order to 
meet his stated income needs in retirement at 58. Mr H said he needed £15,000-£20,000 per 
year in retirement according to the information gathered by Mulberry Wealth. And under the 
PPF, Mr H would have received an annual income of £19,819.34 at 55 if he took a full 
pension, or a lump sum of £110,669.01 and a reduced annual pension of £16,600.35. These 
figures only increase for both the PPF and BSPS2 the later Mr H retired. So, I think Mr H 
couldve met this objective by staying in the scheme, even without taking into account other 
sources of income he would likely have at retirement, such as savings and other pension 
provisions.
Mulberry Wealth have also referred to flexibility as being an advantage of the transfer for 
Mr H, including being able to take TFC. But I dont think Mr H required flexibility in 
retirement. Based on the evidence Ive seen; I dont think he had a genuine need to access 
his TFC earlier than the normal scheme retirement age and leave the funds invested until a 
later date. I say this because no reason was given as to what Mr H was intending to use any 
TFC for. Again, I think this was simply a consequence of transferring rather than a 
something Mr H had any genuine need for.
I also cant see evidence that Mr H had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. Again, no specific reason was given as to why Mr H required this or how 
specifically he would use this. Again, I dont think Mulberry Wealth established in any 
meaningful way what Mr Hs income needs in retirement would likely be or how he would 
achieve this.
Also, Mr H had recently started paying into his new employers DC scheme. Its reasonable 
to assume he would likely continue to make contributions to that pension (or a similar one if 
he changed jobs in the future), for the rest of his working life. So by the time he reached age 58, his pension would have grown to be a sizeable pot. And, Mr H could have accessed 
those funds in a flexible manner if he still needed to do so at that point, while also leaving his 
valuable, safeguarded DB benefits untouched. So, even if flexible access to funds in 
retirement was a genuine need for Mr H, he didnt need to transfer his BSPS benefits in 
order to achieve this.
Furthermore, Mr H was only 36 at the time of the advice, and based on what Ive seen he 
didnt have concrete retirement plans. Mr H had, at minimum,18 years before he could think 
about accessing pension savings, so I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision 
about transferring out of the DB scheme. I dont therefore think it was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr H to give up his guaranteed benefits now, when he didnt know what 
his needs in retirement would be. And if Mr H later had reason to transfer out of his DB 
scheme, if he joined the BSPS2 he could have transferred out of it closer to retirement.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr H. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr H might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr H about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Mulberry Wealth explored to what 
extent Mr H was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr H 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr H predeceased her. I dont think Mulberry Wealth made the value of this 
benefit clear enough to Mr H. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent 
on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension 
was. The sum remaining on death would also be reduced by any income Mr H withdrew from 
it during his lifetime.
Its also worth noting that Mr Hs DC pension through his new employer would likely have 
offered some form of death benefits too. But, I cant see that Mulberry Wealth highlighted 
this to Mr H.
In any event, Mulberry Wealth should not have encouraged Mr H to prioritise the potential for 
higher death benefits through a personal pension over his own security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr H genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, life insurance 
is generally a good way of achieving this. I can see from the fact find that Mr H did already 
have some form of life cover in place, which would run until he was about 64. Mulberry 
Wealth couldve taken this into account and explored replacing it with whole of life cover if 
Mr H was genuinely interested in leaving an extra legacy behind. Given his age and good 
health, this wasnt likely to be unaffordable. 
Overall, I dont think the different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP 
justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. And I dont think that insurance 
was properly addressed or highlighted as an alternative.
Control and concerns over financial stability of the DB schemeI think Mr Hs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr H was not an 
experienced investor, and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr H  it was simply another consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Its worth noting that Mr H already worked for a different employer at the time of the advice. 
And, Mulberry Wealth were in a good position to be able to explain to him that the scheme 
trustees and Mr Hs ex-employer were separate and not one and the same. The future of the 
scheme was being taken out of his ex-employers hands. So, I dont think this was a reason 
which would justify transferring or that wouldve meant Mr H achieved something he didnt 
already have i.e., the scheme and his ex-employer being separate.
Although Mr H seems to have had concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF, I think 
Mulberry Wealth should have explained that this was not as concerning as Mr H thought. As 
Ive explained above, Mr H was still unlikely to match, let alone exceed the benefits available 
to him through the PPF if he transferred out to a personal pension.
Use of a DFM 
Mulberry Wealth recommended that Mr H use Brewin Dolphin to manage the majority of his 
pension funds on a discretionary basis via their discretionary portfolio. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr H, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr H should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so Brewin Dolphin 
would not have had the opportunity to manage his funds if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr H. But 
Mulberry Wealth wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr H needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr H was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and put his funds at risk. And, in my view, there were no other 
particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont think Mulberry 
Wealth shouldve advised Mr H to transfer out of his DB scheme pension.
As noted, I appreciate the BSPS hadnt been established when the advice was given. But, 
I think it was clear that it was likely to be going ahead. The BSPS2 offered more generous 
benefits than the PPF and so I think it was in Mr Hs best interests to have opted into it. By 
doing so, he would still have had the option to transfer out at a later point, when he was 
closer to retiring, if he wished to do so. So, I think Mulberry Wealth should have advised 
Mr H to opt in to BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr H would've gone ahead anyway, against Mulberry 
Wealth's advice. Mulberry Wealth argues that this is the case, saying they think Mr H would 
have gone ahead with the transfer in any event because he was attracted by the benefits a 
personal pension would provide and how these aligned with his objectives. He also had a 
strong aversion to remaining in his ex-employers scheme and he wished to avoid the risk of 
his benefits being transferred to the PPF which they say was an undesirable outcome.Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Mulberry Wealths advice. I say this because 
Mr H was an inexperienced investor with a medium attitude to risk and this pension 
accounted for the majority of Mr Hs retirement provision. So, if Mulberry Wealth had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Hs concerns about his ex-employer, the PPF and the other 
objectives mentioned such as flexibility were so great that he wouldve insisted on the 
transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out, didnt think 
it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Mulberry Wealth had explained that Mr H 
could meet all of his objectives (or wait until he was older and had a clearer idea of what his 
retirement objectives were) without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve 
carried significant weight. And, Mulberry Wealth could have explained that the scheme 
trustees and Mr Hs ex-employer were not one and the same. The future of the scheme was 
being taken out of his ex-employers hands and I think if Mulberry Wealth had fully explained 
this in a balanced way, this would have resolved Mr Hs concerns in this regard. So, I dont 
think Mr H would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme against the advice.
In light of the above, I think Mulberry Wealth Management Limited should compensate Mr H 
for the unsuitable advice, in line with the regulators rules for calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice.
I've thought about Mr H's representative's point regarding the 15% deduction from any 
redress payable, to take into account the tax Mr H would've paid had this been taken as 
income. They believe this is unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been 
deducted from the fund value over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this 
may unfairly reduce the redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact 
compensation in these circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr H 
back into the scheme as if the transfer out hadn't happened. So, overall, I remain of the view 
that the redress proposed fairly compensates Mr H for the impact of the unsuitable advice he 
received.
Lastly, I understand and appreciate that learning he may be worse off in retirement as a 
result of having been mis-advised has likely been an ongoing source of distress and 
inconvenience to Mr H. For these reasons, I agree with the Investigator that Mulberry Wealth 
should pay £250 to Mr H to recognise the impact of their unsuitable advice.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Mulberry Wealth to put Mr H, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would 
most likely have opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
Mulberry Wealth must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Mulberry Wealth should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the 
redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr H and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Mulberry Wealth 
based the inputs into the calculator on.For clarity, Mr H has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Mulberry Wealth should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts Mulberry Wealths offer to calculate how much of their redress could 
be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Mulberry 
Wealth may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax 
that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the 
loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Also, for the reasons given above, Mulberry Wealth should pay Mr H £250 compensation to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to him as a result of the unsuitable advice.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and award: I uphold this complaint and require Mulberry Wealth Management 
Limited to calculate fair compensation as set out in the steps above. My decision is that 
Mulberry Wealth Management Limited should pay Mr H the amount of compensation 
produced by that calculation - up to a maximum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I also recommend that Mulberry Wealth Management Limited pays Mr H the 
balance.
If Mr H accepts this final decision, the determination and award becomes binding on 
Mulberry Wealth Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Fiona Mallinson
Ombudsman