DRN-4248790
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way QIC Europe Ltd handled a claim under his home emergency 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to QIC, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which it 
takes responsibility. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I only intend to 
provide a brief summary of the key events here. 
In December 2022, Mr Ws boiler broke down leaving him with no heating or hot 
water. So he contacted QIC to make a claim under his home emergency insurance 
policy. 
QIC said that due to an influx of claims and the time of year, it didnt have any 
contractors available to attend Mr Ws property. It advised him to find a local 
tradesman to carry out the work to ensure the problem could be dealt with promptly, 
and to send the invoice to QIC for payment. 
Mr W says he called about ten plumbers, who did a diagnosis over the phone. And 
two plumbers attended his property. All plumbers said they wouldnt take the job due 
to the amount of work involved, advising that it wasnt economically viable to repair 
the boiler and he should replace it. He received a quote of £1,300 to repair and 
£2,500 to replace. 
Mr W called QIC to let it know what hed been told, and he was asked to email over 
the details. He did so, expressing the urgency as he had no heating or hot water. 
After receiving an automated response saying the email address was rarely 
monitored, Mr W made further calls to find out how to progress his claim.
After ten days, Mr W still hadnt heard so he called QIC again. He advised it that hed 
provisionally booked a plumber to replace his boiler, but this was pending the 
outcome of his claim with QIC. He was advised that the policy would only cover £150 
towards a replacement. As Mr W was dissatisfied, he raised a complaint. 
Mr W went ahead with the replacement of his boiler. 
QIC issued a complaint response. It offered to reimburse the call out fee of £84 which 
Mr W had been charged by his plumber; any alternative heating hed had to pay for, 
and £150 contribution towards the replacement boiler. 
Mr W remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our Investigator 
was satisfied QICs offer was fair but asked that in addition it pay 8% simple interest 
on the call out fee and heating costs, and £50 compensation for the poor service. 
She also requested details of the age of the boiler to determine whether the £150 
contribution was the correct amount in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
QIC accepted our Investigators findings. It said if Mr W provides details of the age of 
the boiler, and its less than 11 years old, it will revise its offer accordingly. It also said 
it would need to see invoices for the call out fee and heating costs. 
Mr W didnt accept our Investigators findings. He said his policy is clear that a boiler 
is only uneconomical to repair if the cost to repair it is more than 75% of the cost of 
replacing it. He says that had QIC provided its own contractor under the policy, he 
couldve had his boiler repaired with the full cost being met by the policy. As such, he 
feels QIC should cover the full cost of the replacement. 
The complaint has been passed to me decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain the key reasons why here. 
Sourcing a tradesperson
I appreciate Mr W was unhappy that he had to find his own tradesperson rather than QIC 
providing one under the policy. But Mr W made his claim four days before Christmas during 
a period of below freezing weather conditions across the country. Whilst this was outside of 
his control, its understandable that QIC might struggle to have contractors available to 
attend immediately. 
As this is a home emergency policy, Id expect QIC to respond to claims urgently, and if its 
unable to do so it should provide alternative options to ensure its customers arent left in 
unacceptable circumstances for too long. Im pleased to see that, rather than requiring Mr W 
to wait in a queue until someone could get to him, QIC allowed him to find his own 
tradesperson to carry out the works. 
Boiler repair 
Mr W says he couldnt find a plumber who was willing to repair his boiler, so he had to 
replace it  which wouldnt have been the case had QIC sent its own contractor. Whilst I can 
understand the point Mr W is making, Im not persuaded by it. 
I cant say for certain what wouldve happened had one of QICs contractors attended. So I 
have to consider, on the balance of probabilities, what is most likely to have happened in 
these circumstances. Given that Mr W spoke to about ten plumbers who refused to repair 
the boiler due to the work required to get it up to standards, I think its most likely that QICs 
contractor wouldve also recommended the boiler is replaced. 
Mr W doesnt agree and refers to the policys definition of uneconomical which says a 
repair is considered to be uneconomical if the cost to repair the item (including parts and 
labour) is more than 75% of the cost of replacing the item as new. I accept that based on the quotes Mr W obtained, his boiler wasnt uneconomical as defined 
by the policys terms and conditions. But that doesnt mean a contractor of QICs wouldve 
been willing to repair it.
Ive looked at the quote provided by Mr Ws plumber which lists a number of parts that need 
replacing. The plumber says it needs a lot of work and that hed need the boiler to come of 
the wall or to remove the flue in order to complete the works. He warns that if the flue gets 
damaged, it wouldnt be able to be replaced as its no longer available for this particular 
boiler. 
Taking everything into account, Im persuaded that QICs contractor wouldve also 
recommended a replacement boiler regardless of the policy terms. As such, Mr W would be 
in the same position he is now, having only benefited from a contribution towards the 
replacement boiler under his policy. 
Boiler replacement contribution
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy say that it will make a contribution towards the 
cost of a brand new like-for-like replacement. The amount of the contribution is dependent 
on the age of the boiler. 
I havent been provided with sufficient information on Mr Ws boiler to determine its age. So I 
cant say whether QICs offer of £150 is the right amount in line with the policy terms. 
However, QIC has confirmed that it will revise its offer if Mr W confirms the age and I think 
thats reasonable. 
Reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses
QIC has agreed to reimburse Mr W for the call out fee of £84 he was charged by his 
plumber. I think this is fair on the basis that he wouldnt have had to pay this had the policy 
provided a contractor. 
QIC has also agreed to reimburse the cost of any alternative heating Mr W has had to pay 
for. This is in line with the policy terms which says that QIC will contribute up to £100 
(including VAT) towards the cost of buying or hiring alternative heating sources. The policy 
explains that a receipt for these costs will be required. Again, I think this is fair. 
I appreciate Mr W says hes already sent invoices for these costs to QIC, but I havent seen 
any proof of this and QIC doesnt seem to have received them. As such, to satisfy the policy 
terms and enable QIC to reimburse him, Mr W should resend these over and QIC should 
pay 8% simple interest on these amounts to take into account the time Mr W has been 
without these funds.
Poor customer service
I can see that Mr W emailed QIC the day after his claim was raised to let it know what hed 
been told by the plumbers hed spoken to. He asked for a response ASAP as he needed to 
book in with the plumber who was booked up until January. 
I understand Mr W received an automated email in response to say that mailbox was rarely 
monitored and to make contact via an online portal. When he tried to do so, there was no 
portal for his reference number. He called the helpline and was informed the mailbox was 
monitored but by 3 January 2023 he still hadnt received a response.This isnt the standard of service Id expect QIC to provide its customers, and Ive no doubt 
this wouldve impacted Mr W over the Christmas and New Year period. I understand he was 
informed by phone on 3 January 2023 that he wouldnt be covered for the full costs of a 
replacement boiler.
Im persuaded that compensation is warranted for the short time Mr W was without clarity 
about what hed be covered for under his policy. And Im satisfied the £50 recommended by 
our Investigator is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint and directing QIC Europe Ltd to:
pay the policys contribution towards a replacement boiler based on the age of the 
original boiler at the time of the claim.
reimburse the call out fee of £84, subject to Mr W providing an invoice or proof of 
payment, plus 8% simple interest per annum from the date Mr W paid it up until the 
date its reimbursed.
reimburse any alternative heating costs up to the policy limit, subject to Mr W 
providing an invoice, plus 8% simple interest per annum from the date Mr W paid it 
up until the date its reimbursed.
pay £50 compensation for the poor customer service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman