DRN-3696693
The complaint
Mr L says Nationwide Building Society, has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction on 
his credit card which paid for an extended holiday with his wife.
What happened
Across July 2019 and January 2020 Mr L used his Nationwide Building Society (NBS for 
short) credit card to make payment for the holiday to a holiday arranger firm Ill call Firm T. 
The arrangement he made included flights, hotels and motorhome hire across a number of 
weeks. In total Mr L paid over £15,000 to travel around the world to a number of destinations 
across continents.
In March 2020 Mr L and Mrs L started their holiday but after almost two weeks the trip was 
cut short due to the rapidly spreading Pandemic and Firm T arranged for Mr L and Mrs L to 
be flown home.
Mr L approached Firm T and it refunded 3,792.30 for the unused elements of your trip. It 
confirmed in writing that all unused parts of the itinerary had been refunded to Mr L. But Mr L 
felt he should get more back so he took his complaint to NBS.
NBS raised two chargebacks (for unclear reasons). One of these was successful and one 
was defended by Firm T. So Mr L received £3,947.95. from the chargeback. Meaning over 
all Mr L has received back £7,749.25 which is around 50% of the amount he spent on the 
holiday. NBS considered a claim under S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 but felt overall 
that with what Firm T had said on the matter (and without a detailed costing of all the 
elements of the trip being available) that there wasnt sufficient to show that there had been 
a breach of contract or misrepresentation which NBS should be held accountable for. So Mr 
L brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt NBS didnt have to do anymore. And Mr L remains unhappy and so this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L used him NBS credit card to pay Firm T the overall amount covering the flights, 
motorhome, and hotel stays (not itemised costings). This means that if certain criteria are 
met NBS can have certain responsibilities to Mr L which arise from the relevant law, 
specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary in certain 
circumstances Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr L to hold NBS liable for breaches of 
contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. In essence NBS 
can be held responsible for a like claim against the supplier (Firm T).
Also Mr Ls NBS credit card is part of a card scheme which is operated by another company. 
And this scheme has rules which includes giving NBS an avenue for card transactions to be 
disputed with Merchants, namely through the Chargeback process. This isnt a right for 
consumers and the ultimate decisionmaker on such chargebacks is the scheme/network 
itself and not NBS. So it is possible that NBS could take it as far as possible and Mr L still 
not be successful.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about NBS and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr L fairly. This decision isnt about Firm T, which 
isnt within this Services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. I hope this 
distinction is clear.
could NBS challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
Mr L doesnt dispute that he used him NBS credit card here. Nor does he dispute the 
amount, date, or any other details about the transactions themselves. So I dont think NBS 
couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr L didnt properly authorise the transaction, 
given what Ive just set out.
NBS is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
NBS raised two chargebacks for similar amounts, one of which was successful and one 
which was defended by Firm T and thus unsuccessful. Its not entirely clear why NBS did 
raise two chargebacks but it is clear that the reason the successful chargeback was 
successful was that Firm T didnt defend it (also for reasons unclear).
Ive considered the listing of flights and hotels and other bookings that were made through 
Firm T for Mr L and Mrs Ls benefit. I note that the items booked during the entire stay were 
quite disparate in nature. There were bookings in hotels which were in well known tourist 
areas and which could be described as being at least mid-market to upper market in terms of 
cost. There were also mid to long haul flights which by their nature would have significant 
inherent costs and would have been significant items in terms of the total costings. There 
was also motorhome hire and a significant period of the holiday period were there was 
nothing booked at all. Both of which would have had significantly lower costs when 
considered compared to the high cost items. Mr L has explained that this period where there 
was nothing was due to staying them staying with friends and hence this period had nothing 
allocated to it in the itinerary. And consequently wouldnt have incurred any cost.
Having considered the chargeback rules and what happened here I satisfied that NBS has 
treated Mr L fairly. It raised two chargebacks and one was successful leading to Mr L 
recouping a significant amount of money. It would seem that Firm T could have fairly 
defended that chargeback if it had been sufficiently organised to respond within time. So it 
appears that Mr L has recouped more than expected. So he certainly hasnt lost out as a 
result of NBS did in relation to chargeback.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mr Ls claim meets the financial limits criteria. Similarly Im satisfied that the 
required relationship between parties (DCS) is in place also.For NBS to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown that the 
supplier either breached the contract or materially misrepresented something to Mr L which 
was untrue and that his fair reliance on that untruth led to loss.
NBS didnt uphold Mr Ls S75 complaint as it was not persuaded that there was a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation by Firm T in the circumstances. Firm T couldnt provide the 
services agreed and so it says it provided a refund for the unused items on the agreed 
itinerary. 
Mr L disputes that the refund is correct and points to the amount of days he received and 
didnt receive and suggests an averaging of cost across the entire period of the holiday 
based on discussions hed had during the course of this dispute. But I think this would be an 
unfair solution. I say this because there were extensive parts of the middle of the holiday 
where clearly there were no or low costs attributable to the itinerary including the period of 
motor home usage and staying with friends. If we used Mr Ls averaging approach then in 
essence NBS would be refunding Mr L for some of the hotel stays and flights Mr L and Mrs L 
had use of at the beginning of the holiday (which were the more expensive parts of the 
itinerary) and refunding Mr L for periods when hed paid much lower amounts or nil amounts 
for the itinerary. Clearly that would be unfair on NBS.
Having considered the evidence Im not persuaded that any breach of contract has been 
evidenced. On the contrary Ive seen evidence from Firm T confirming it had refunded all 
unused parts of the itinerary. 
And even in the alternative even if I were to agree that Firm T had breached the contract, 
considering the evidence Mr L has provided as to the itinerary and when the holiday was cut 
short and what benefits Mr L had received and what was left on the itinerary Im not 
persuaded that NBS would have any reason to refund any further amounts. So I dont think it 
would be fair to ask NBS to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Mr L points to what he was told during conversations in this dispute as to how matters would 
be refunded to him. But because the customer service wasnt ideal doesnt mean that Mr L 
should now be refunded more than hes due. And I note that NBS did compensate him for 
the customer service it provided. And in the round Im satisfied that award it made was fair in 
the circumstances.
Mr L says that we lost 76% of our planned holiday and recovered only 50% of the costs we 
had paid and have received scant justification for this treatment. It is clear to me that the 
costs of the holiday were not evenly spread across the period of the holiday. In fact the costs 
were very unevenly spread bearing in mind there were days when the costs were much 
higher (long haul flights with hotel stays) in comparison to the significant number of days 
were there were no costs incurred or low costs incurred (for instance whilst staying with 
friends). So a refund calculation based on what benefits Mr L did and didnt receive seems 
fair to me in the circumstances.
Mr L points to the fact that Firm T has not provided an itemised costing of all the elements of 
the holiday. And I appreciate that things would be clearer if such had been provided. But I 
can also appreciate that there are commercial reasons that could lead to Firm T not wishing 
to disclose that information. And Ive not seen any contractual term present which requires it 
to disclose such information. It is also important to remember that a S75 claim is a like 
claim against the supplier with the onus being on Mr L to demonstrate that there has been a 
breach of contract and that hes lost out as a result. And Im not persuaded that Mr L has 
shown there has been a breach of the contract or lost out because of what Firm T did.I do appreciate that Mr L and Mrs L had spent a substantial sum on this holiday. And Im 
sure they are deeply disappointed in not being able to enjoy the majority of the holiday 
period due to the spread of the Pandemic. I also appreciate that this isnt the decision which 
Mr L wishes to read. And I appreciate that this decision will mean that Mr L will not receive 
any further refunds from NBS. 
But this does not mean that NBS has done anything wrong in dealing with the issues arising 
from these transactions. Or that it should refund him anymore. Mr L hasnt shown that Firm T 
has breached the contract by not refunding him for the unused parts of the holiday. And thus 
NBS hasnt treated him unfairly. Nor has it been shown that NBS has caused Mr L loss 
through its approach to chargeback, in fact it appears Mr L has done better than not losing 
out due to NBS approach to chargeback. And as a consequence Ive decided that Mr Ls 
complaint about NBS shouldnt succeed.
It maybe that Mr L wishes to continue his legal claim against Firm T and that is for him to 
decide if he wishes through other avenues. However this decision brings to an end the 
consideration of Mr Ls complaint about NBS in relation to these transactions at this service.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman