DRN-3425778
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the support offered by Close Brothers Limited trading as Close 
Brothers Motor Finance when he was in financial difficulties. Hes also complained that 
Close Brothers didnt collect a vehicle when he wanted to end the conditional sale 
agreement he had with it. 
What happened
Mr T acquired a used vehicle under a two-year conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers in June 2019. The vehicle cost around £5,700 and he paid a deposit of around 
£2,000. He contacted Close Brothers in March 2020 to find out what options he had because 
he was concerned he may not be able to pay his agreement. 
Payments from March 2020 werent made, and Close Brothers wrote to Mr T about the 
arrears. It also made various attempts to contact him by telephone. I think the vehicle had 
been declared off road at this point and Mr T says he tried to end the agreement around July 
2020. Its not clear if he asked to voluntarily surrender the vehicle or voluntary terminate the 
agreement. Around this time, our service was considering a separate complaint from Mr T 
against Close Brothers. Mr T also says he was given an offer from a dealer for the vehicle 
which would have cleared the finance, but he didnt accept it because hed already asked to 
hand it back. 
Further arrears notices were sent and, from what I can see Close Brothers and Mr T next 
spoke in March 2021. Mr T complained about the support hed received. It looks like Close 
Brothers highlighted options Mr T had to end the agreement. And its internal notes say it 
could offer an extension of the agreement by 6 months. Its not clear it communicated that to 
Mr T. But, in any event, things werent resolved. 
Mr T contacted our service in July 2021 to complain the vehicle hadnt been collected; hed 
not received assistance during Covid-19; and that Close Brothers hadnt communicated with 
him properly. 
One of our investigators looked into things and said she thought Close Brothers had acted 
fairly when Mr T contacted it in March 2020. She noted the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Covid-19 guidance for car finance firms hadnt been released at that point. But she 
didnt think the options Close Brothers had provided were unfair. She said Close Brothers 
had made attempts to contact Mr T without success. She also said she couldnt see any 
evidence Mr T had attempted to end the agreement around the time he said he had. So she 
didnt think Close Brothers had acted unreasonably in that regard. 
Our investigator did, however, think that, as the supplier of the goods under the agreement, 
Close Brothers should offer to collect the vehicle from Mr T. Shed noted it had said its 
arrears team thought it wasnt economically viable for it to collect the vehicle. Close Brothers 
responded to say it didnt think it had a responsibility to collect the vehicle, but it said it would 
allow Mr T to either:
Scrap the vehicle as long as the proceeds were put towards his liability.
Accept a payment of book value instead of the full amount owing.
Arrange for a collections company to consider recovering the vehicle and putting the 
proceeds towards the liability. 
Mr T wasnt happy with the offer. He said if Close Brothers had taken this action in 2020 the 
vehicle would have been worth more. So he asked our investigator to reconsider 
compensation. He also asked her to instruct Close Brothers to collect the vehicle.  
Close Brothers asked an agent to do that but was unsuccessful. Close Brothers says Mr T 
told its agents hed made other arrangements, which is something he also told our service. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T acquired the vehicle under a regulated conditional sale agreement, and our service is 
able to consider complaints relating to those sorts of agreements. 
Mr T has raised various complaints with Close Brothers. So I first want to set out, for the 
avoidance of doubt, that the only complaints Im considering here are in relation to the 
support Close Brothers offered Mr T when he was in financial difficulties; whether it acted 
fairly in relation to a request from him to end the agreement; and its communication in 
relation to those points. 
Support received
I can see Mr T contacted Close Brothers in March 2020 to speak about his employment 
situation. Theres limited evidence available. But the contact notes say Mr T spoke to 
Close Brothers because hed had a month off for retraining in his job, and that there might be 
less work available going forward. The notes also indicate Mr T says he fell into a vulnerable 
category and so might struggle to go for interviews. The notes dont explicitly set it out, but I 
expect this was in relation to Covid-19. 
It looks like Mr T indicated he would be able to make the next payment, but he was unsure 
about the following months. Close Brothers contact notes say it advised Mr T to make the 
next payment and that it could revisit the situation once he knew a bit more about his work. 
So no arrangement was put in place at that time because Close Brothers and Mr T werent 
sure how things were going to pan out. 
Ive thought about what happened here. Like our investigator pointed out, Im mindful the 
FCA hadnt released any Covid-19 specific guidance for car finance firms to follow at this 
point. But there were existing rules for customers in financial difficulties that Close Brothers 
was required to follow. This is set out in the CONC rulebook which can be found in the FCA 
handbook. Under CONC 7.3.4 it says A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears 
difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. CONC 7.3.6 goes onto say Where 
a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a firm should allow the customer reasonable 
time and opportunity to repay the debt.
As Ive said above, the information I have is limited. But from what I can see, it looks like 
Close Brothers was willing to discuss Mr Ts situation with him. The notes indicate Close 
Brothers could offer forbearance arrangements, but it would need to know more about Mr Ts 
situation before doing so. I think that sounds reasonable. As Mr T didnt make payment in March 2020, over the next few months the contact notes 
indicate Close Brothers made various attempts by phone and in writing to contact him. But it 
wasnt able to reach him. I appreciate Mr T has said he had difficulty trying to contact Close 
Brothers. I accept it was a very busy time for firms given the impact of Covid-19. But I dont 
find I can say Close Brothers wasnt willing to provide him support. And I dont think its 
communication attempts were unreasonable either. 
Request to end agreement 
Mr T says he told Close Brothers he wanted to hand back the vehicle in 2020. Mr T says he 
thinks this was some time in mid-2020. As Ive said above, its not clear if he asked to 
surrender the vehicle or voluntarily terminate the agreement. More recently hes specifically 
referred to voluntary termination. But Ive considered both options for completeness. 
Voluntary surrender isnt something set out in the agreement, but its often something car 
finance firms will allow customers to do  particularly if theyre in financial difficulties. The 
agreement does however set out Mr Ts rights for voluntary termination. It says: 
You have a right to end this agreement. To do so, you should write to the person you make 
your payments to. They will then be entitled to the return of the goods and to half the total 
amount payable under this agreement, that is £3,265.24. If you have already paid at least 
this amount plus any overdue instalments and have taken reasonable care of the goods, you 
will not have to pay any more.
However, like our investigator pointed out, I think the main issue here is that, other than what 
Mr T has told us, Ive simply not seen evidence that Mr T did try to voluntarily terminate the 
agreement or surrender the vehicle in 2020. Ive not seen any records of this on the contact 
notes. And, as per the terms of the agreement, Ive not seen evidence Mr T wrote to Close 
Brothers about that either. So without that evidence, I dont find I can safely conclude that 
Close Brothers has dealt with the request unfairly.  
It looks like by the time Mr T did end up speaking to Close Brothers in March 2021 it 
reminded him of his right to voluntarily terminate the agreement at this point, which is what I 
wouldve expected it to do. But, from what I can see, Mr T wasnt happy hed have to pay 
anything. And he complained again about the support he had during Covid-19.  
Im mindful that if Mr T had opted to voluntarily terminate the agreement in March 2021 the 
payments that hadnt been made for the previous year would have been classed as overdue, 
and so wouldve been payable as per what I set out above. The agreement was also nearly 
at the end of its term meaning most payments had already fallen overdue. Im also mindful 
that if the vehicle wasnt in a reasonable condition when it was returned after voluntary 
termination Mr T may have had a debt in relation to that as well. By Mr Ts account the 
vehicle had been left unused for quite some time.
I can understand why Close Brothers didnt think it would be economical to collect the 
vehicle. But, again, like our investigator pointed out, the vehicle did belong to Close 
Brothers. So I think it shouldve made it clear to Mr T that it was an option to hand back the 
vehicle earlier than it ultimately did. But I have to bear in mind that when it did send 
collection agents to pick the vehicle up, it looks like Mr T said hed made other 
arrangements. Taking all this into account, and while reiterating that Ive only considered the complaint Ive 
set out above, and that I can only base my decision on the available evidence, I dont think 
Close Brothers acted unreasonably when Mr T contacted it to ask for help in 2020. I dont 
find theres sufficient evidence Mr T asked to end the agreement in 2020. I agree 
Close Brothers should have given Mr T the option to hand the vehicle back sooner than it 
did. But by that point, most payments had become due under the agreement. Mr T seems to 
have made other arrangements to dispose of the vehicle. So Im not going to direct Close 
Brothers to take any other action. 
Id recommend Mr T speaks to Close Brothers about the outstanding balance and what his 
options are. If hes unable to clear whats owed straight away Id remind Close Brothers to 
treat him with forbearance and due consideration. 
Mr T did indicate to our service hed prefer Close Brothers to take him to court about the 
matter. Thats not something Im going to direct it to do. But Mr T is of course free to pursue 
the complaint himself by other means, such as through the courts. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance has 
done enough to put things right for this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman