DRN-3327874
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the advice she was given by Wise Pension Group Limited (Wise) 
in 2016. Wise is now Interestme Financial Planning Limited (IFP). She questions its 
recommendation to switch her existing JFM pension to The Wise Self-Invested Pension 
Plan (SIPP). She questions whether the SIPP was suitable for her and why an investment 
with Strand Capital was recommended when it only had a one year track record and there 
were 7000 other funds available with much longer track records?
Mrs R says she was of the understanding she was receiving independent financial 
advice from Wise and questions whether this is true.
Mrs R also questions whether the risk of her investment with Strand Capital was suitable 
for her  suggesting it was higher risk than was appropriate.
She also believes that there was a conflict of interest as two shareholders of Wise 
Pension Group were shareholders in Strand Capital.
Mrs R is unhappy that some of her money was in invested in the OWG Bond, which 
she now believes is worthless. And she asks why her pension funds were subsequently 
moved from Strand Capital to EGR Wealth.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 20 January 2022. I have set out the content of that 
provisional decision in italics below:
As Wise is now IFP and IFP is responsible for answering this complaint, I will refer to IFP 
throughout this decision.
Mrs R had an existing JFM stakeholder pension plan which was valued at about £48,000 at the 
time the advice was given. Mrs R received advice from IFP and a recommendation that she 
should switch her pension to The Wise SIPP and invest with Strand Capital. Strand Capital was 
a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM). Mrs R followed that advice and her pension was switched 
to The Wise SIPP and invested with the DFM. The DFM later failed. Mrs R complained to IFP on 
the above basis.
IFP did not uphold Mrs Rs complaint. It said that her funds had never been moved to EGR 
Wealth. It had investigated IFP when it became aware of the issues facing Strand Capital but
it could not take action as Strand Capital ceased to accept transfers out. It said it had been 
made clear to Mrs R in its Suitability Report dated 20 June 2016 that its financial adviser could 
only give restricted advice. It said like for like projected values had also been provided in the 
Suitability Report which provided a comparison between the existing pension and the pension it 
recommended. IFP said that it had been disclosed that two shareholders of the Wise Pension 
Group had minority holdings in Strand Capital and they had no involvement in the decision 
making at Stand Capital.
IFP said that a risk profile of Low to Medium or 4 on a scale of 1 to 10 had been agreed with 
Mrs R and the Strand Capital portfolio composition was based on that profile. Overall, the 
portfolio chosen matched the risk profile agreed upon. It said it was not responsible for the exit 
penalties that Strand Capital had placed on her investment. It also said it had acted in Mrs Rs 
best interests and made recommendations that it believes were appropriate for her. It said it had 
no knowledge that some of her money would be invested in the OWG Bond and that was not 
included on the Strand Capital investment factsheet when it made the recommendation to switch.
Mrs R referred her complaint to this service and it was considered by an investigator. He 
believed the complaint should be upheld.
In summary he said that:
In his view the difference in charges applicable to the existing pension plan and that 
recommended by IFP had been misrepresented. The new plan was described as 
slightly more expensive than the existing plan but the charges in the new plan were 
about double those of the existing plan.
These extra charges, plus an initial advice charge, would have a significant impact on 
future investment growth.
Given that Mrs R was recorded as seeking out pension advice, to look at the 
possibility of switching your pension to a contract with lower costs, the 
recommendation was not appropriate.
The projections of future performance included in IFPs Suitability Report gave the 
impression that Mrs R would be much better off by switching but this was not an 
accurate like for like comparison and the future returns were based on a very limited 
amount of data. Using a future assumed growth rate of about 9% a year for the new 
scheme distorted any comparison and Mrs R was not therefore able to make an 
informed decision. There was no guarantee the new pension would outperform the old 
pension.
There was no rationale as to why all of Mrs Rs pension was to be invested in Strand 
Capital Balanced Portfolio when there was access to over 7,000 funds within the new 
pension. There was no diversification. So one of the purported advantages of switching 
 having access to a very large number of funds, was not utilized.
Mrs R was not a sophisticated investor and only had very modest funds to invest. He 
was not persuaded that she needed what was a relatively complex arrangement with 
the extra charges that incurred.
He did not believe it was made clear to Mrs R that she was receiving restricted (i.e. 
not whole of market) advice, or what the restrictions meant in practice.
Mrs Rs fund had never been transferred to EGR wealth.
He thought IFPs liability should be capped as at 10 July 2019 as this was the date 
when Mrs R dispensed with IFPs services.
Redress should be calculated by comparing the position with that if Mrs R had not 
switched her pension. Plus a sum should be supplied in respect the of the trouble 
and upset she had been caused.
IFP then made an offer in settlement of the complaint. It set out that it had made this offer on the 
basis suggested by the investigator, using the benchmark suggested by the investigator for 
comparison purposes. This used the starting vale of the money switched out of the original 
pension but deducting the amount invested in the OWG Bond. It said this resulted in a 
compensation payment of about £3,700.
Mrs R did not accept that offer and commented that the redress had not been calculated as the 
investigator had proposed. She said that the actual amount switched from the existing pension 
was about £55,000, not the (approximately) £48,000 IFP had used. If the OWG value was 
deducted from this it would result in a figure of about £50,000, not the (approximately) £44,000 
used.The investigator then reviewed the complaint. In summary he said:
The redress had not been calculated as set out in his previous assessment.
IFP had accounted for charges (an Initial Advice Charge, an Ongoing Advice Charge 
and a Platform Charge) when carrying out the redress calculation. The investigator had 
not set out that any such deduction or allowance could be made. And he confirmed that 
they should not be made.
He did not believe another case being considered by this service that IFP had referred 
to had any relevance here. He did not believe that IFP should deduct the value of the 
OWG Bond from any redress calculation. If IFP had not given the advice then Mrs Rs 
money would not had been placed with Strand Capital and therefore in the OWG Bond. 
Therefore it should be taken into account in the redress calculation. He did not believe 
that Mrs R should be required to make a claim to FSCS for the OWG Bond.
The £300 he had suggested for the trouble and upset caused had been netted down 
in the redress calculation as if it were to be placed in her SIPP. The investigator 
pointed out that this was a separate award that should be paid direct to Mrs R and 
without deduction.
If IFP had not given the advice to switch then Mrs R would still be in her existing 
scheme and therefore IFP should compensate her on this basis. This did not include 
applying its charges or those incurred by switching to to the new pension. He reiterated 
how the redress should be calculated.
We did not receive any further submissions from IFP or indication that it would calculate the 
redress as the investigator suggested. Therefore the complaint has been passed to me for 
review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R was a self-employed caterer earing about £2,000 a month, with two dependent adult 
children. It was recorded that Mrs Rs pension was worth about £48,000. Her money in that 
pension was mainly invested in the JFM Tracker Pension Fund and JFM Corporate Bond 
Fund. The Tracker fund was an equity fund investing in listed companies on the FTSE All 
Share index. The Corporate Bond Fund invested in the bonds of various UK and overseas 
businesses.
A Suitability Report dated 20 June 2016 was completed. This set out Mrs Rs objectives and the 
recommendations by IFP.
The report set out that IFP recommended a switch from her existing pension to The Wise SIPP. 
It said the main reason was performance. It was set out that Mrs Rs existing pension had a very 
small choice of funds and,
by switching you will benefit from investment into a multi-asset portfolio, selected from a 
universe of around 7,000 funds..
And:
The simulated returns for this fund indicate that, over the longer-term, the strategy offers the 
opportunity for higher annualised returns than benchmarked for your chosen risk profile. After 
setting out that the annual management charge on the existing pension was, around 1%, it was 
commented that:
Our recommended solution is slightly more expensive than both your current pension and alternative choices such as stakeholder pensions. Although this is a disadvantage, the reason 
that I am happy to recommend a more expensive solution is that the agreed main objective is 
performance and the Wise SIPP gives you greater investment choice, including access to the 
recommended portfolio. The portfolio is not available to either personal pensions or stakeholder 
pensions and I have explained how the asset allocation, short-term performance and long term 
performance simulations justify the small additional cost.
At this point in the report it was set out that the fees incurred would include a:
3% upfront advice fee.
0.75% ongoing servicing fee.
It should be noted that the fees or charges for the chosen investment or investments were not 
set out at this point.
Mrs Rs Objectives were also listed:
You do not know as much as you would like to about your pension. 
You have never had a review and would like to speak with an adviser.
You have not considered planning for your retirement before and want to understand your 
potential position, any shortfalls that may exist and what actions you can take to improve your 
position.
You believe a combination of positive long-term investment returns and making ongoing 
contributions play an equally important role in growing your pension.
You would be happy to look at the possibility of switching your pension to a contract with 
lower costs.
We discussed these objectives, and considered them within the context of your target 
income, risk profile and capacity for loss. Following this discussion, we agreed that the 
following objective carried the most important weighting at this stage of your retirement 
planning:
Improved performance
It was also set out that Mrs Rs risk profile was, Lower to Medium and this would involve 
some fluctuations in value.
This risk profile was defined as:
A person with a lower to medium attitude to risk would generally be relatively cautious with 
their investments.
They want to try to achieve a reasonable return, and are prepared to accept some risk in doing 
so. They understand your portfolio will exhibit relatively modest yet frequent fluctuation in value.
In the Income Shortfall Assessment it was recorded that the value at retirement of the pension 
at her retirement was projected to be £111,000. I assume this was taken from the Mid rate on 
the JFM Stakeholder Pension Illustration dated April 2016. The future growth rates used on that 
illustration were based on those allowed by the regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority. It 
was set out that this was a stakeholder pension with a total annual charge of 1%. On a like for 
like basis it was said that the Wise SIPP was projected to yield
£105,000.
It was then set out that the projected value of my recommendation - the Strand Balanced 
Portfolio - was £228,000. It seems that this was based on an extrapolation of returns based on 
annual return of over 9%. It is commented that this is not guaranteed.What is notable is this return was set out as being based on a:
5 year annualised performance of 9.4%
But:
As Strand Capital Limited have only been running the portfolios for 1 year, the 5 year 
performance has been back-tested on a simulated basis. (my emphasis)
So IFP was projecting forward based on an extremely short term, one-year historical 
performance figure. This was clearly inappropriate.
The quoting of a future pension value based on short term performance of The Strand Balanced 
Portfolio was in my view likely to mislead Mrs R. As the investigator said, this creates the 
impression that over double the return will be achieved by switching when that is far from 
guaranteed. The subsequent comment that this was not guaranteed does not adequately 
address this. It is simply the case that using a projection of the existing pension based on 
standardised and approved growth rates but then using a non-standard growth rate chosen by 
the adviser was inappropriate and likely to mislead Mrs R. It is for that reason that the regulator 
stipulates standard rates for comparisons. What should have been highlighted was that on a like 
for like basis IFP was setting out that the Wise SIPP was projected to yield less.
Having a greater choice of funds is an advantage and Mrs Rs existing funds were 
constrained. Setting that out was not inappropriate. But what was not appropriate was to 
create the impression that far greater returns would be likely obtained.
It was also set out that:
Why is it in your interest to transfer?
Based on what you have told me and my analysis of your situation, for the scheme(s) we have 
identified as suitable to switch I recommend that you transfer your benefits to The Wise SIPP. The 
reasons for this are as follows:
Following our discussion on Friday 17th June, I am recommending that you switch to the Wise 
SIPP. The main reason for this is performance. Your current pension has a small choice and by 
switching you will benefit from investment into a multi-asset portfolio, selected from a universe of 
around 7,000 funds, monitored daily. The simulated returns for this fund indicate that, over the 
longer-term, the strategy offers the opportunity for higher annualised returns than benchmarked 
for your chosen risk profile.
When we analysed your current pension, we identified the following reasons to support this 
recommendation:
The plan does not contain any penalties.
The plan does not contain any guarantees, either for the funds or in the form of an income 
you can buy at your retirement age.
The plan has access to just one alternative fund to switch into (excluding current fund 
choice). This would make building a diversified portfolio very difficult. The annual 
management charge is around 1%.
Our recommended solution is slightly more expensive than both your current pension and 
alternative choices such as stakeholder pensions. Although this is a disadvantage, the reason 
that I am happy to recommend a more expensive solution is that the agreed main objective is 
performance and the Wise SIPP gives you greater investment choice, including access to the 
recommended portfolio. The portfolio is not available to either personal pensions or stakeholder 
pensions and I have explained how the asset allocation, short-term performance and long term 
performance simulations justify the small additional cost.It was stated, factually, after the recommendation that there were plan charges:
Pension wrapper charge £114 per 
annum Investment management charge 
0.84% Dealing charge 0.42%
But the total charges vis-a-vie the existing pension were not set out in plain English. As set 
out, it was commented that the new pension would only be, slightly more expensive.
As the investigator said, The Wise SIPP, when taking into account the investment fund charges 
was not slightly more expensive but about double the cost of her existing pension.
And Mrs R was given an unrealistic picture of the returns she would obtain by switching. 
These are both material issues and Mrs R would not have proceeded in an informed 
position.
Furthermore Mrs R was not making use of the fund choices from the new scheme, which was a 
material reason for recommending the switch. It is not clear why, with such a wide choice of 
funds, the adviser recommended that Mrs R invest all her money in one fund provided by Strand 
Capital  a DFM with a very limited track record. That placed all her eggs in one basket  a risk 
that was demonstrated when Strand Capital subsequently failed after only a comparatively short 
period of time. I do not believe it was suitable to recommend that to Mrs R in her circumstances 
and with only very modest resources.
Mrs R has said that if she had been correctly informed she would not have switched and 
would have simply remained with her existing pension scheme. I am persuaded by her 
comments. Therefore I uphold the complaint.
Fair compensation
My view as to how redress should be calculated differs somewhat from the investigators. I 
believe that, as Mrs R has confirmed, but for the advice, she would not have switched and 
would have remained with her existing scheme. So, the redress comparison would be to 
compare the current transfer value of her pension with the transfer value her JFM pension 
would have achieved.
In addition, I do not believe that the comparison should end in 2019. It should be performed to 
the date of my final decision. It is my understanding that Mrs R remains (essentially) invested in 
the same way as recommended by IFP (notwithstanding any necessary arrangements made 
on the failure of Strand Capital). And it would not appear that Mrs R could have made any 
material changes in any event in 2019, as Strand Capital was being wound up.
Furthermore I see no reason why the effect of investment in the OWG Bond should be removed 
from the calculation. The DFM IFP recommended had a very wide investment mandate and it 
was entirely foreseeable that it could have invested in such an investment. In any event Mrs Rs 
money would not have been invested in the OWG Bond were it not for IFPs recommendation. 
So it is reasonable for IFP to make good the effect of that.
In addition, IFP should not make any reduction for charges. If IFP had not given its 
unsuitable advice, then Mrs R would not have incurred those charges. And it is not 
reasonable to deduct advice charges for advice that was inappropriate.
IFP should therefore calculate fair compensation by comparing the current position to 
the position Mrs R would be in if she had not transferred from her existing pension.
In summary, IFP should:
1.Calculate the loss Mrs R has suffered as a result of making the switch.
2.Take ownership of any illiquid investments if possible.
3.Pay compensation for the loss into Mrs Rs pension. If that is not possible pay compensation for the loss to Mrs R direct. In either case the payment should take 
into account necessary adjustments set out below.
4.Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how IFP should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in 
further detail below:
1.Calculate the loss Mrs R has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, IFP should work out the likely value of Mrs Rs pension as at the date 
of my final decision, had she left it where it was instead of switching to the Wise 
SIPP.
IFP should ask Mrs Rs former pension provider to calculate the current notional 
transfer value(s) had she not switched her pension. If there are any difficulties in 
obtaining a notional valuation, then the return of the funds Mrs R was invested in 
prior to the switch can be used for comparison.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the 
date of my final decision and this will show the loss Mrs R has suffered. Any illiquid
investments or investments that cannot currently be sold should be assumed to have no 
value.
2.Take ownership of any illiquid investments
If IFP is unable to take ownership of any illiquid investments then they should remain in the 
SIPP. However, it would not be fair for Mrs R to have any ongoing fees to pay in relation to 
the SIPP. So, in the event IFP is unable to take ownership of any illiquid investments (and 
they cant otherwise be removed from the SIPP), it should pay a sum to
Mrs R equivalent to the next five years SIPP fees. This should allow sufficient time for such 
issues to be resolved and the SIPP closed.
If the SIPP can be closed and all investments sold then this will not be an issue.
3.Pay compensation to Mrs R for loss she has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mrs R has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the value of 
her pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the loss should be 
paid into the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it would conflict 
with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. This may mean the compensation should be increased to 
cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow for the income tax relief Mrs R could claim. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Rs marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mrs R may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mrs R direct. But had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation for the loss paid to Mrs R should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Rs 
marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mrs R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in 
retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to 
the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs R would have been able to take a tax free lump 
sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
4.Pay £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mrs R has been caused some distress and upset by the loss of her pension benefits.
This is money Mrs R cannot afford to lose and its loss has undoubtedly caused her distress. I 
consider that a payment of £300 is appropriate to compensate for that. As the investigator said, this is not an investment loss and should be paid direct to Mrs R.
Interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date IFP
receives notification of Mrs Rs acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days.
If IFP considers that it is legally required to deduct income tax from the interest, it must send a 
tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mrs R can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and 
Customs if appropriate.
I would highlight that Mrs R will need to provide authority to IFP so that it can obtain 
information about the value of her JFM pension so that it can calculate the redress 
accurately.
My provisional decision
I currently intend to uphold the complaint and award compensation as set out above.
IFP and Mrs R have confirmed that they have nothing further to add in response to the 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered matters, I remain of the view set out in my provisional 
decision. So, as I have no further submissions to consider, I uphold the complaint 
on the basis set out in the provisional decision.
Putting things right
I set out how fair compensation should be calculated in the provisional decision, as detailed 
above. IFP should now calculate and pay compensation as set out in the provisional 
decision. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and order Interestme Financial Planning Limited to calculate and pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022. 
David Bird
Ombudsman