DRN-2420303
The complaint
Mrs E complains about problems she experienced when making a withdrawal from a 
Barclays Bank UK PLC cash machine. 
What happened
On 20 January 2020 Mrs E used a Barclays cash machine to try and withdraw £100 from an 
account she holds with another bank. Mrs E has told us she were unaware of a dispensing 
time limit for the cash and failed to take it. Mrs E reported the matter to a member of staff 
and was initially told there was a problem with the cash machine. However, no one was 
available to investigate. Mrs E says that after around an hour a manager came to assist. The 
manager said some checks would be completed overnight to ensure the cash hadnt been 
taken and the money would be refunded. Mrs E has pointed out that she wouldnt have 
waited if the first person she spoke with had given her the correct advice.
As Mrs E didnt hear back, on 25 January 2020 she visited her other bank to check whether 
Barclays had been in touch about the missing funds. Mrs E has explained that her other 
bank told her Barclays hadnt been in touch but successfully arranged for the £100 to be 
refunded within 48 hours. 
Mrs E visited Barclays on 29 January 2020 and was offered £50 to resolve the complaint. 
Mrs E has told us the £50 was paid into a joint account she holds with her husband, not her 
sole account. 
Barclays sent Mrs E its final response on 12 February 2020 and apologised for the service
issues she had raised, confirming it had paid her £50.
Mrs E referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. He thought 
Barclays had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mrs E asked 
to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E has explained that she wasnt aware of a time limit for taking cash from an ATM. 
Barclays says that cash is taken back into the ATM if the customer doesnt take it. Barclays 
has explained that the step is taken to ensure anyone who walks away from the machine 
without taking their cash doesnt lose it. I understand the process caused Mrs E some 
inconvenience in this case, but I think its reasonable for Barclays to have a security 
measure in place to protect its customers cash. 
Mrs E has told us that she was initially told there was probably an issue with the cash 
machine. But after waiting around an hour Mrs E was advised by a manager that the cash 
machine would need to be checked overnight before anything else could happen. Mrs E 
quite rightly points out that she wasted time in branch and I understand she wouldnt have 
waited to speak with a manager if she had been given the correct advice at the outset.
I agree that Barclays gave Mrs E some unclear advice about the process of arranging a 
refund. Mrs E says she was told Barclays would liaise with her other bank to arrange the 
refund. But when she checked with the other bank, she was told no contact had been made. 
And Mrs Es other bank managed to sort the issue out and arrange a refund of her £100 
within 48 hours. Im pleased the missing cash was located and repaid to Mrs E. 
I think all parties broadly agree about the events of this case. And I agree with Mrs E that the 
service she received from Barclays should have been better. Barclays paid Mrs E £50 to 
apologise for the service provided but Mrs E doesnt think that fairly reflects what happened. 
In my previous decision, I explained that our service can only look at certain complaints. I 
said that I thought we could look at what had happened up until 27 January 2020 because, 
at that stage, Mrs Es funds were refunded and the key issue was resolved. 
Whilst I agree the service Mrs E received in branch was poor at times, I think the £50 fairly 
reflects the impact of Barclays errors and the delay in speaking with someone. Ultimately, 
the situation was resolved in around a week and whilst I can see Mrs E was very concerned, 
I think £50 is fair in all the circumstances. As Barclays has already paid a settlement that is 
fair and reasonable, Im not telling it to take any further action.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Barclays Bank UK PLC has already 
paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman