DRN-3845699
The complaint
Ms S complains of the continuing delay by AXA Insurance UK Plc in respect of her claim as 
a tenant for water damage to her flat. This follows a previous decision by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service setting out what AXA needed to do to effect the settlement.
What happened
Ms Ss claim dates back to March 2014. She initially complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service in May 2020 about the delay in getting her flat repaired. As a result in 
November 2021 my Ombudsman colleague issued a Final Decision (FD) requiring AXA to:
either pay Ms Ss costs to carry out the repairs or appoint its own contractor to do the 
repairs.
consider the damage to Ms Ss contents caused by the delay with the claim.
consider Ms Ss increased electricity bills due to the use of dehumidifiers to dry her flat.
reimburse the cost of Ms Ss surveyors report plus interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
pay £1,500 towards Ms Ss legal costs; and
pay compensation of £1,500 to Ms S for the trouble and upset it caused her. 
Ms S brought a further complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in June 2022, that 
AXA hadnt paid any of the repair costs or expenses. She had provided a contractors 
estimate for the repairs.
AXA issued a final response letter (FRL) on 6 August 2022. It apologised for the continuing 
delay and proposed to pay a further £250 compensation (which it later did). Shortly after that 
its loss adjuster wrote to Ms S accepting her contractors estimate and set out a list of the 
expenses AXA would also be paying. 
The claim continued after the FRL. I understand that the repairs have now been carried out 
but there are some residual issues over things like the electricity bills.
Our Investigator considered Ms Ss complaint  she made it clear that the only issue was 
AXAs delay in continuing to deal with the claim, and for that she said the £250 offered (and 
now paid) was fair and reasonable. She also said that we could only look at matters that 
arose between the FD of November 2021 and the FRL of 6 August 2022.
Ms S didnt agree and said she found the compensation of £250 to be an insult considering 
the unnecessary stress she had been put through for the previous 7 years. She also 
wanted to complain about discrimination which she didnt think had been addressed.
Our Investigator explained that the previous FD had taken into account all complaints 
concerning the way the claim had been handled since it was first reported in 2014. She 
further explained that she couldnt look at issues that had happened since the August 2022 
FRL.
Ms S asked for an Ombudsmans decision, and the matter has been passed to me to 
consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start off by explaining what matters I cant look at, either because they have already 
been adjudicated upon by my Ombudsman Colleague, and accepted by Ms S or because 
the complaints havent yet been put to AXA. 
So all matters concerning the claim (up to November 2021), the stress caused to Ms S and 
the effect on her health have already been dealt with in the previous FD, in which Ms S was 
given an award of compensation. So whilst I sympathise with her for all she has had to go 
through, I cant revisit any of those issues.
With regard to matters arising since the FRL of August 2022, they havent yet been put to 
AXA, for the simple reason that the claim has progressed substantially since Ms S made her 
complaint. She may not be satisfied with the claim handling, or may be concerned that there 
are outstanding issues, like the electricity bills. Until they are fully considered by AXA, I dont 
think it appropriate to look at them, but if Ms S does have complaints about them she will 
need to put them to AXA first. Regrettably we cant handle the claim for her.
In respect of her allegation of discrimination, this hasnt been previously put to AXA, and 
wasnt raised by Ms S with us until after our Investigators view on the current complaint. 
Again if she wants it to consider this she will have to put the complaint to AXA, so it can 
address it.
I cant directly consider a complaint about delays in dealing with the issues in the FD of 
November 2021. All I can look at is the continuing delay by AXA, after that date, in dealing 
with the claim. So that is a period of nine months. 
I can see that in December 2021 AXA asked Ms S for details of her electricity bills, the value 
of her damaged contents and invoices for her surveyor and legal costs.
There was then a delay until March 2022 as the previous loss adjuster left. The new loss 
adjuster contacted Ms S. I understand that it was agreed that Ms Ss contractors would be 
contacted for a revised quote. The revised quote wasnt received until 6 May 2022, some 
two months later, and Ms S also provided her solicitors costs and a list of the damaged 
contents.
However, there was a further delay until August 2022 at which point the costs for the repairs 
were approved. 
For the period I am considering, there was around three to four months of avoidable delays.  
I think an award of £250 compensation is fair and reasonable. As Ive said, for matters 
arising after August 2022, if Ms S has any outstanding concerns, she must put them to AXA 
first. My final decision
I make no finding other than to note that AXA has already paid £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman