DRN-1661421
 
complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about two instalment loans she took with Provident Personal Credit 
Limited trading as Satsuma Loans. Mr M says these loans were unaffordable.
background
Satsuma Loans provided Mr M with two instalment loans between October 2017 and 
January 2018, as detailed below.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 09/10/2017 06/12/2017 12 £1,000.00 £166.00
2 13/01/2018 Outstanding 12 £1,000.00 £166.00
Our adjudicator thought Satsuma Loans hadnt done anything wrong when providing Mr M 
with his loan. He explained that Satsuma Loans gathered adequate information and there 
wasnt anything within that information that was cause for concern. Mr M disagreed and said 
he had multiple other short-term loans and he was struggling financially. Mr M says these 
were large loans and a proper assessment by Satsuma wouldve shown he couldnt afford 
them.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me  an ombudsman  for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought about all of this, I dont think Satsuma Loans has treated Mr M 
unfairly or that it should pay him compensation. I know this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr M and Id like to explain why I think this is the case.
Mr M was provided with two high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So Satsuma 
Loans needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Satsuma Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether any lending was sustainable for Mr M before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and whether it verifies that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed 
expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
In his complaint Mr M says that Satsuma Loans didnt lend to him responsibly because he 
already had a number of short-term loans. He says had Satsuma Loans properly reviewed 
his credit file it wouldve seen he couldnt afford the loans. Overall, Mr M says the lending 
had a negative impact on his financial situation.
Satsuma Loans says that it carried out adequate checks  by gathering details of Mr Ms 
income and expenditure. It also carried out a credit reference check for both loans. And 
based on this information Satsuma Loans says it didnt see anything to alert it to any 
sustainability or affordability issues for the loans it gave Mr M.
Its important to note that when Mr M took out this loan with Satsuma Loans it doesnt 
seem that he had an existing relationship with them. The first loan was to be repaid over 
12 instalments of around £166. Mr M had told Satsuma Loans that his monthly income was 
around £1,500 and he had a reported expenditure of around £300. Mr Ms income 
remained the same for loan 2, but his expenditure had increased to £675. There isnt 
anything obvious about these figures that suggests Satsuma Loans had reason to question 
the information it had about Mr M or verify it. Looking at the monthly repayments in light of 
Mr Ms declared disposable income its difficult for me to conclude that Satsuma Loans 
was wrong to decide that the repayments would be affordable sustainably for Mr M.
I understand Mr M says his credit file wouldve revealed the state of his financial affairs. I 
can see that Satsuma Loans has gathered information from credit reference agencies. 
When Mr M applied for loan 1 it seems Mr M did have a history of using short-term lending. 
However, there didnt seem to be negative entries within these checks to alert Satsuma to 
any issues. For example, Mr M hadnt defaulted on loans and he didnt appear to have 
multiple loans running concurrently. 
For loan 2 I think Satsuma Loans needed to carry out further checks as Mr M was 
borrowing a significant amount again and had only recently repaid loan 1. So I wouldve 
expected Satsuma Loans to build up a clearer picture of Mr Ms finances. Satsuma Loans 
carried out another income and expenditure assessment. Although Mr Ms expenditure had 
slightly increased the repayments still left him with sufficient disposable income. Mr Ms 
credit checks at this stage also showed an increase in Mr Ms use of short-term lending. 
But Mr M hadnt defaulted on multiple loans at this stage and he wouldnt have had multiple 
loans running concurrently with loan 2 being provided. So, whilst Mr M had increased his 
reliance on short-term I dont think there was enough within the credit search to alert 
Satsuma Loans to the extent of Mr Ms financial difficulties.
I can see loan 2 is still outstanding and has been sold on to a debt collection agency. I 
appreciate Mr Ms comments about the impact this has had on him. But I havent seen 
anything to make me think Satsuma Loans acted irresponsibly in the circumstances of his 
case.
my final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint against Provident Personal 
Credit Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.Chandni Green
Ombudsman