DRN-3423723
The complaint
Mr E complains that PSFM SIPP Limited (PSFM) failed to carry out due diligence checks 
when accepting his application for a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) in 2010. He 
says it didnt carry out appropriate checks on the advisor who recommended the 
transaction, or on the investments to be held in the SIPP.
Mr E is represented by his (new) financial adviser in this complaint.
What happened
The parties
PSFM SIPP Limited
PSFM SIPP Limited trades as Punter Southall Financial Management SIPP. It is a 
regulated SIPP provider and administrator. It is authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange 
(bring about) deals in investments, deal in investments as principal, establish, operate or 
wind up a pension scheme and make arrangements with a view to transactions in 
investments.  It is not and was not at the time of events in this complaint authorised to 
give investment advice.
The adviser
Mr E says he was advised by a man I will call Mr H. He was registered with the Financial 
Services Authority (FSA), now the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), as an approved 
person. An approved person is a person the regulator has approved to do one or more 
activities, called controlled functions, for an authorised firm.
The FCA register shows Mr H was registered to perform the controlled function CF21 
Investment Adviser from 2005 to October 2007 and CF30 Customer from November 2007 
to 22 July 2010. The register also shows that Mr H was approved to perform those 
functions at Openwork Limited which is an authorised firm, authorised amongst other 
things to advise on pensions and investments.
According to the FCA register Mr H was employed by a business called Henderson Stone 
& Co Ltd between 2006 and 22 July 2010. That business was registered with the FCA. 
And the FCA register shows it was recorded as an appointed representative of Openwork 
from 2005 to 16 August 2010.
Henderson Stone was not itself authorised by the FCA, so it did not have any authority 
from the FCA as such.
In brief, only persons (which includes companies) authorised by the regulator may give 
regulated investment advice. This is referred to as the General Prohibition. An exception 
to this general rule is that an authorised person may appoint representatives to act for it 
and the authorised person must take responsibility for the activities it authorises the 
representative to carry out. In this relationship the authorised person is called the 
principal.
I understand that Openwork says Mr H worked at Henderson Stone and it was an 
independent contractor pursuant to a franchise contract with Openwork. And that its 
franchise contract authorises an approved adviser at a franchisee firm such as Mr H to 
act as an appointed representative of Openwork.
Mr H was therefore authorised by Openwork to carry on the activities it 
(Openwork) authorised him to carry out.
As I understand it, Mr H was suspended by Openwork, and not permitted by it to 
give investment advice, from 23 April 2010 until he resigned on 17 July 2010.
The investment
The Resort Group
The Resort Group (TRG) was founded in 2007. TRG owns a series of resorts in Cape 
Verde. TRG sold hotel rooms to UK consumers, either as whole entities or as fractional 
shares ownership in a company. TRG was not regulated by the financial services 
regulator.
This case involves a fractional investment into property at TRGs Dunas Beach Resort.
As I understand it, the total agreed price was around EUR 60,000. The price was to 
be paid by stages. Mr E paid around £32,000 as a down payment from his SIPP. 
This means the pension bought membership of a limited company with the company 
buying promissory contracts to buy a suite at the resort.
As I understand it, there have been difficulties with the Dunas Beach investments and 
legal completion has not taken place for some if not all properties. So (at least some) of 
the investments have turned out to be in what are now dormant companies with no 
assets. I do not know if that is the case with Mr Es investment, but I understand it is 
illiquid and no value can be realised for it for Mr Es pension scheme.
The relationship between Mr H and PSFM
PSFM has explained things as follows:
It does not have a record of the date of Mr Es application to it other 
than the date on the application form. Mr H used to visit the PSFM 
offices personally and drop off documentation which he had completed 
with the client.
It had an Introducer Agreement with Mr H, but it cannot now locate it.
Although it cannot find the actual agreement completed back in 2010 it 
had a standard introduction agreement with financial advisers. And it 
provided a copy. (The copy refers to the regulator as the FCA but it was 
still the FSA in 2010 so the version that has been provided cannot be 
the exactly correct version but I assume it is the same in all material 
respects.)
The standard form agreement (in which PSFM is referred to as the Company) included the following:
oThe Introducer is either a Solicitor, Accountant, or is authorised 
and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, with 
registration number [ ].
oThe Company wishes to appoint the Introducer to 
introduce Individuals to it who wish to enter into a Self-
Invested Personal Pension operated by the Company.
oThe Introducer wishes to accept the appointment and has 
agreed to introduce individuals to the Company to enable those 
individuals to enter into a PSFM SIPP.
oThe Introducer accepts responsibility for the suitability of any 
advice provided to the Individual in respect of any Investments 
comprised within the PSFM SIPP in accordance with the 
requirements of the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
oThe Introducer accepts that the Company does not provide any 
activities that could be construed as either advising on 
investments  or managing investments
oThe Introducer warrants and undertakes to the Company that:
It is, and for the duration of this Agreement will be, 
authorised and regulated by the FCA
In respect of FCA authorised and regulated firms it has 
the appropriate FSMA Part 4A permissions to provide 
advice to, or manage a discretionary investment portfolio 
on behalf of, the Individuals
It has full capacity and authority to perform its duties 
under the Introducer Agreement.
PSFM has provided an extract from its records that show that in 
relation to Mr E it recorded Mr H as his regulated adviser/introducer in 
July 2010. That record remained unaltered until 2012 when it reviewed 
its records upon the introduction of the Retail Distribution Review. At 
that point (31 December 2012) Mr H was deleted as the introducer.
PSFM paid Mr H (rather than Henderson Stone or Openwork) a fee of
£322.65 on 12 August 2010 which it referred to as IFA Fees on the SIPP Account 
Statement.
The setting up of the SIPP etc
Mr H was Mr Es bosss financial adviser. Mr E met Mr H through that connection. Mr E 
met Mr H at his home to discuss his pension. Mr H gathered information and a further 
meeting was arranged when Mr H made his recommendations. That meeting was in July 
2010.
Mr E said Mr H was very enthusiastic about investing in the Dunas Beach Resort. He says 
he was promised returns in excess of £5,000 a year plus free holidays at the resort. Mr E says Mr H said it was a fantastic opportunity, the next big thing and not to be missed. 
Mr E says he was assured it was all above board and regulated by the UK government 
and that Mr H said he was a professionally authorised financial adviser.
Mr E says Mr H supplied all the forms to be signed and took away all the signed 
documents to deal with their implementation.
Mr E signed an application form for a SIPP with PSFM. This was dated 19 July 2010. The 
form asked if Mr E wished to appoint an investment manager. The answer no was given.
On the same day Mr E signed an application form to open a SIPP bank account. Mr Es 
signature was witnessed by Mr H.
On 27 July Mr E signed a supplemental deed relating to the SIPP. Again his signature was 
witnessed by Mr H. He gave his occupation as Sales Adviser AMP.
Neither Henderson Stone nor Openwork is referred to on any of the signed 
documents I have seen.
The SIPP was opened on 27 July 2010 and on 4 August 2010 it received transfers in of 
nearly £6,500 and around £32,000 from Mr Es existing pensions and paid out just over 
£32,000 in respect of the property investment.
IFA Fees of £322.65 were paid to Mr H from the SIPP account on 12 August 2010.
Income referred to as property income in the statement was paid into the account in 
2015 and 2016. I understand further income was paid until 2019
In 2016 Mr and Mrs E (who Mr and Mrs E say was similarly advised by Mr H) were 
concerned about their pension  it was costing them money each year and didnt seem 
to be making anything for them. They contacted a different financial adviser. He tried to 
find out what Mr Es pension was worth and how he could transfer Mr Es pension to a 
different investment. He discovered the investment was illiquid and could not be sold.
Mr E complained to Openwork about the advice he had received saying the advice 
was unsuitable because the investment was high risk.
Complaint against Openwork
Mr E complained to Openwork about the advice Mr H had 
given. Openwork did not uphold Mr Es complaint. It said:
It had a record of Mr E as a client advised in 2007, 2008 and 2009 relating 
to life cover and pensions with Aegon and Zurich.
Mr H worked at Henderson Stone and it was an independent contractor 
pursuant to a franchise contract with Openwork.
The Franchise contract authorises an adviser such as Mr H to act as an 
appointed representative of Openwork.
Openwork is not responsible for the acts and omissions of the adviser when 
acting outside that agreement.Openwork authorises advisers to advise on only a restricted range of 
approved investments and services.
The Resort Group and Dunas Beach resort were not part of Openworks 
approved product range.
Further, its appointed representatives are not permitted to advise on 
unregulated, high risk, speculative or alternative investments such as 
overseas property in Cape Verde.
Mr E had not provided any evidence to show that Mr E was acting with 
Openworks authority in relation to the advice he complained about.
PSFM is not on Openworks approved list of SIPP providers and it has not 
provided any evidence to show the application to open the SIPP was made on 
behalf of Openwork. It paid a fee to Mr H personally not to Openwork.
Mr H was not authorised by Openwork to give the advice Mr E was 
complaining about and it is not responsible for the advice and so Openwork 
did not uphold the complaint about it.
Complaint against PSFM
Mr E also complained to PSFM in 2016. It also did not uphold Mr Es complaint. 
PSFM said:
It is aware of the regulators expectations on it as a SIPP provider.
Mr H was an authorised adviser when he introduced Mr Es business to it.
Mr H was responsible for the advice he gave Mr E. He gave the advice while he 
was still an approved person.
The investment was of a type that is permitted in a SIPP.
PSFM is not responsible for Mr Hs advice and the complaint about the 
suitability of the investment should be directed to Openwork.
The provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in Mr Es complaint in February 2022.  After first 
discussing the relevant considerations I am required to take into account when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I said:
The role of Mr H
PSFM had processes in place for checking the investments it was prepared to allow 
in its SIPP and the introducers it was willing to accept business from. It has explained 
it had processes in place before the 2009 Thematic Review report was published and 
it has referred to the points made in that report to explain why it thinks it acted 
reasonably at the time.
PSFM says part of the report focuses on the relationship with introducers and that it 
undertook the checks referred to  checking that advisers who introduce clients to it 
were FSA authorised and had appropriate permissions. Mr H was an approved person and the firm for which Mr H acted as an approved person, Openwork, had the relevant 
permissions to provide investment advice. It carried out its checks periodically and on an 
ongoing basis.
PSFM is a regulated business. It is an execution only SIPP operator. And it was under 
a regulatory obligation to conduct its business, in that limited non-advisory capacity, 
with due skill, care and diligence, manage its affairs responsibly with adequate risk 
management and effectively, and pay due regard to its customers interests and treat 
them fairly.
As mentioned above, PSFM entered into an Introducer Agreement with Mr H and, 
though it cannot find the original, PSFM says the agreement included the following:
[The Introducer] is, and for the duration of this Agreement will be, 
authorised and regulated by the FCA
In respect of FCA authorised and regulated firms it has the appropriate 
FSMA Part 4A permissions to provide advice to, or manage a discretionary 
investment portfolio on behalf of, the Individuals
It has full capacity and authority to perform its duties under the 
Introducer Agreement.
In 2009 the regulator gave examples of good industry practice, including:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning 
notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, 
and clarifying respective responsibilities, with intermediaries 
introducing SIPP business.
And PSFM says it has met those standards. I do not however agree.
PSFM should have had a reasonable understanding of the need for those giving 
regulated advice to be regulated. It should reasonably have understood the 
appointed representative/principal relationship. It should have understood that the 
appointed representatives regulated status relies entirely on its principal  it is not 
free to do whatever it wants to independently.
And PSFM should reasonably have understood the principals business model 
when considering doing business with an appointed representative.
It was PSFMs understanding Mr H would be giving regulated investment advice to 
clients he introduced to it. It was content about this because it understood Mr H was 
an approved person and was an appointed representative of Openwork which was 
authorised to give investment advice. And so PSFM entered into an Introducer 
Agreement with Mr H personally and accepted the business he referred to it including 
Mr Es application for a SIPP, to transfer his existing pension to it and invest in the 
Dunas Beach resort investment. And it paid a fee to him personally for that 
introduction from Mr Es SIPP account.However PSFM should have been aware of the implications of Mr H being an 
appointed representative of Openwork.
As an appointed representative Mr H was not an authorised person in his own right. He 
was only approved by the FSA to give advice on behalf of Openwork. Mr Hs authority to 
give advice came from Openwork. He was only authorised to do the things Openwork 
authorised him to do.
Openwork is a restricted product range firm, not a whole of market adviser. And PSFM 
should have known that if it was considering doing business with one of its appointed 
representatives. It should also have known that it (PSFM) had no arrangement with 
Openwork  that it was not on Openworks panel of approved providers it did business 
with. It was not one of the limited number of providers it did business with. Put another 
way, it should have known Openwork, and therefore its advisers, did not do business 
with it.
So as a general point PSFM should have known an appointed representative is only 
authorised if it acts within the authority given by its principal. And in relation to a 
restricted advice firm, such as Openwork, PSFM should have known that the 
authority given by the principal would be restricted. And it should have understood 
that advising on its SIPP would not be something an Openwork appointed 
representative was authorised by Openwork to do.
And PSFM should have understood that if Mr H did not have the authority of his principal
to advise on its SIPPs there was a real risk he would be breaching the General 
Prohibition if he was introducing SIPP business and taking responsibility for the 
suitability of the SIPP.
It is permitted for unregulated introducers to introduce business to SIPP providers but 
that is not what PSFM understood its relationship with Mr H to be. It thought he was 
regulated and would be giving regulated investment advice about the suitability of its 
SIPPs for its potential customers.
There is also the point that if Mr H was acting beyond his authority with his principal he 
might not be dealing with it an open and appropriate way. Why, for example, was Mr H 
trying to do business with a SIPP provider that was not Openworks approved 
provider? Was he trying to do business he was deliberately not reporting to his 
principal? Or did he just not understand the obligations he was under? These points 
raise questions about
Mr Hs character and/or competence and whether Mr H was an appropriate person to 
be doing SIPP business with, and whether it was in its customers best interest to do 
business with him
These points should have been matters of serious concern for PSFM which should 
have meant that it ensured it only accepted business from Mr H that was authorised 
by Openwork  or in other words it should have entered into the Introducer 
Agreement with Openwork not Mr H, or no agreement at all.
But PSFM was not on its panel of SIPP providers so it would not have entered into 
an Introducer Agreement with PSFM so that Mr H could introduce the business he 
wanted to do.
There is no evidence that Openwork did in fact authorise Mr H to do business with 
PSFM and it has refused to accept responsibility for the advice Mr H gave to Mr E.If PSFM had checked with Openwork, it would have discovered that Mr H was not 
authorised to do business with it. And in turn it would have refused to accept any 
business from Mr H. PSFM could and should have refused Mr Es application without 
going beyond its normal contractual role and regulatory permissions and without 
giving him advice on the suitability of the investment for him.
PSFM should not have accepted Mr Es application for a SIPP and transferred his existing 
personal pension to it. And this means it would not have made the investment to Dunas 
Beach for Mr E because he would have had no SIPP to make the investment from.
Did PSFMs failings cause Mr Es loss?
I cannot see that there is any evidence that Mr E was motivated to open his SIPP and 
invest in PSFM because of, for example, an incentive payment as in the Adams v 
Options SIPP case. I acknowledge that Mr E had a friend or colleague who was a client 
of Mr E and may have invested in a similar way. And that his wife made essentially the 
same investment in her pension after it was also transferred to a SIPP with PSFM at 
around the same time also on Mr Hs advice. In my view, there is however nothing to 
indicate that Mr E would have moved his pension if he had not been encouraged to do 
so by Mr H. And Mr H only acted in that way because PSFM agreed to accept the 
business he referred to it.
Mr E had a relatively small pension pot and I do not consider it likely that he would have 
been advised to move his pension by Mr H acting on behalf of his principal, Openwork, 
appropriately advising on its approved products. Nor do I consider that any other 
regulated financial adviser acting reasonably would have advised Mr E that investing his 
pension in the Dunas Beach investment was suitable for him. It is a higher risk, esoteric 
investment that is unsuitable for a pension investment for most retail investors.
I therefore consider it unlikely that Mr E would have suffered the same loss if PSFM 
had refused to accept his application.
In conclusion
It is my view that in the light of what PSFM knew, or ought to have known, about Mr 
H and his principal Openwork before it received Mr Es application, it didnt comply 
with good industry practice, act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and 
control its affairs responsibly, or treat Mr E fairly by accepting his application. And I 
think that, in not doing so, it allowed him to be put at significant risk of detriment.  It 
did not act in its customers best interest as required in its role as an execution only 
SIPP provider.
For the avoidance  of doubt,  Im not saying  that PSFM  should  have  assessed  
the suitability  of the investment  or the SIPP  for Mr E. I accept  that PSFM  had 
no obligation  to give advice  to Mr E, or otherwise  ensure  the suitability  of a 
pension  product  or investment  for him. My finding  is not that PSFM  should  have  
concluded  that the investment  or SIPP  was not suitable  for Mr E. Rather  it is 
that PSFM  did not meet  its regulatory  obligations,  or treat Mr E fairly,  by 
accepting  his application  for a SIPP  introduced  by Mr H.
I then went on to explain how I thought FSFM should put things right.
Mr Es responses to the provisional decisionMr Es new adviser has made some comments on the provisional decision, including:
The proposed award of £300 for distress and inconvenience should be reconsidered.  
Mr E has suffered 12 years of worry and distress and uncertainty as to the money in 
his pension.  Further PSFM agreed to postpone any fees until the conclusion of the 
Financial Ombudsman Services investigation but despite this enforcement officers 
were sent to 
Mr Es home causing a great deal of distress as they demanded payment of the fees 
in front of Mr and Mrs Es daughter.
The adviser has invoiced Mr E for consultation and administration of Mr Es 
complaint.  The adviser has been involved in over six years of work.  The adviser 
says he has limited his bill which ought to be much larger to accurately reflect the 
amount of work carried out.  Although it is understood that such charges are not 
normally awarded the issues involved such as the nature of the appointed 
representative/principal relationship are not straightforward for a layman such as Mr 
E.
Assuming PSFM pay the compensation into Mr Es pension he will need advice on 
transferring to a suitable pension.  This requires regulated financial advice and will 
cost in the region of a further £2,000 which should also be covered by the 
compensation award.
PSFMs responses to the provisional decision
PSFM does not agree with the provisional decision.  Its lawyers made a number of points 
including:
There are no grounds for holding PSFM liable for Mr Es losses.
PSFM fully understands the nature of the principal agent relationship.
There was nothing irregular about the status of Mr H.
Mr H appeared to be an employee of Henderson Stone & Co Ltd in the Financial 
Services Register until 22 July 2010.  Mr Es SIPP application was on 19 July 2010.
At the time of the advice, unbeknown to PSFM, Mr H was suspended from 
conducting regulated business by Openwork.  
Openwork ought to have notified the FCA and removed Mr Hs name from the 
register when it first had concerns.
Even if PSFM had searched the register on 19 July 2010 it would have found Mr Hs 
name as being a person authorised with CF30 Customer function and to the outside 
world as being a person authorised to undertake regulated activities.
PSFM was acting upon publicly available information and should not be penalised for 
doing so.  Henderson Stone continued to be an appointed representative of 
Openwork until 16 August 2010.
The Financial Services Register is a statutory register.  PSFM was entitled to rely 
upon it. No guidance published by the FCA suggests otherwise.  The information 
published by the FCA on its website about using the register suggests the contrary.
A fair and reasonable expectation is that PSFM should check the Financial Services 
Register upon working with a new introducer and thereafter periodically.  That is what 
it did. 
There is nothing in the extract of the FCA publications referred to in the provisional 
decision that would require investigation of an appointed representatives principal 
beyond checking the register as PSFM did.
The terms of business agreed between PSFM and Mr H satisfy the second FCA point 
quoted in the provisional decision.
It is asserted in the provisional decision that because Openwork had not appointed PSFM to its panel of SIPP providers Openwork must not have permitted its appointed 
representative such as Mr H to engage with it.  This may or may not be true but 
cannot be known without a close reading of the appointed representative agreement 
between Openwork and Henderson Stone under which Mr H operated.
Openworks refusal to accept liability for Mr Es loss is entirely predictable on 
commercial grounds.  And no weight should be attached to this refusal.
Further as an employee Henderson Stone is vicariously liable for Mr Hs actions.
The provisional decision says there is no evidence that Openwork authorised Mr H to 
perform this line of business.  PSFM says it should be the other way around.  Without 
an analysis of the appointed representative agreement that governed Mr Hs 
operations there is no evidence that openwork didnt authorise Mr H  beyond 
Openworks refusal to compensate Mr E which is questionable as evidence against 
PSFM for obvious reasons.
In the case of R (on the application of TenetConnect Services Ltd) v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin) a pension investor was advised to 
switch certain investments held with reputable insurance companies into a SIPP and 
purchase among other things a property in Goa.  That investment was a scam.  
The ombudsman in that case was clear that the advice to sell regulated investments 
and switch into the Goan property was one piece of advice and therefore within the 
scope of the ombudsmans jurisdiction.  The court agreed. 
So, whether the advice to invest within Dunas Beach constituted advice within the 
scope of Mr Hs authority the advice Mr H gave to Mr E to sell his existing pension to 
fund the investment almost certainly was within that scope.  The advice to sell and 
the advice to buy were part of a single braided stream of advice  the term used in 
the TenetConnect judgment.
The case of Anderson v Sense Network also says that a principal is liable for the acts 
and omissions of the appointed representative that are within the scope of his 
authority but performed negligently. The case did not consider whether there was a 
single braided stream of advice as in the TenetConnect case and it does not 
contradict that case.
The point of the TenetConnect decision is that a braided stream of advice does 
constitute regulated advice and is therefore within the scope of the appointed 
representatives authority if the authority would have captured the selling advice on a 
standalone basis. 
So Openworks assertion that it is not responsible because the advice to buy Dunas 
Beach investment was outside its authority is wrong.
The duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally under COBS 2.1.1R must be 
considered in the context of the contractual arrangements that Mr E has with PSFM.  
The analysis in the High Court decision on this point in Adams v Options SIPP UK 
LLP applies equally to PSFM and Mr Es relationship.
It is no part of the Provisional Decision that PSFM should have advised Mr E on the 
merits of his investment.  PSFM provides an execution only service and Mr E was 
aware of this when he signed up to PSFMs terms of business.  This is a point of 
agreement with the Provisional Decision and is relevant to the question of what 
caused Mr Es loss.
The advice from Mr H to 
oSell regulated investments
oOpen a SIPP with PSFM
oInvest in the Dunas Beach Resort project 
constitutes a single braided stream of advice to use terms from the TenetConnect 
case.
To find PSFM liable two steps are necessary:
oFirst, to unravel the braid and separate out the advice to open the SIPP from 
the other two streamsoSecondly, an argument has to be constructed that even treated in isolation, 
PSFMs decision to allow Mr E to open the SIPP was wrong.
But this does not make sense.
Mr H appeared to the world as fully entitled to conduct regulated business because of 
his appearance in the Financial Services Register, where he was listed at the date of 
Mr Es application to PSFM.
In any event registration was not necessary as it is permitted for unregulated 
introducers to introduce busines to SIPP providers.
So treating the opening of the SIPP in insolation, there are no grounds for finding 
PSFM did anything wrong at all.
The only plausible grounds for rejecting the SIPP are that the investment that the 
SIPP proposed was unsuitable  contrary to what was said in the Provisional 
Decision. And this is was not a determination that PSFM should have or was entitled 
to make.
So PSFM is not responsible for the losses incurred by Mr E.
Even if it were appropriate to unravel the braided stream of advice (which is not 
conceded) and treat the opening of the SIPP in isolation it is difficult to show that that 
act by itself caused Mr E any loss.
A SIPP taken in isolation is just an empty wrapper.  It is only when that wrapper is 
seeded with invested capital that profits or loss become possible.
The but for test is not satisfied.  Mr E was obviously enthused by the possibility of 
returns offered by the Dunas Beach Resort project and it is not obvious that if PSFM 
had refused to open a SIPP for Mr E that he would not simply have gone somewhere 
else to get access to this opportunity.  This especially so as PSFM was neither 
obligated to pronounce nor capable of pronouncing, on the suitability of the 
investment.
In any event the but for test is only a preliminary filter.  Even if no other SIPP 
operator would have allowed the investment, the losses were caused by the 
intervening act Mr Hs advice to Mr E which breaks the chain of causation between 
PSFM and Mr Es application and the losses suffered on the Dunas Beach Resort 
project.
The reasoning in the Provisional Decision seems to deprive Mr H of all responsibility 
for his actions.  The general principle is that the free acts of a person intended to 
exploit the situation created by the defendant negatives causal connection.
Mr Hs actions are the critical causal factor that caused Mr Es loss and Openwork 
bears full responsibility for those actions.  They are nothing to do with PSFM.
PSFM is not therefore liable for the losses suffered by Mr E.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Relevant considerations
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision.The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint 
include Principle 2, 3 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business 
with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care 
to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate 
risk management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of 
the FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority 
[2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They 
are but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The 
general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles 
is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA, Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the 
Ombudsman to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account 
in deciding what would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if 
no Principles had been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil 
its particular statutory duty without having regard to the sort of high level 
Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated them. 
They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument 
about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant 
time. He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have 
undertaken due diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP 
wrapper, and that if it had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The 
ombudsman found Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory 
obligations and had not treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of the BBA judgment including paragraph 
162 set out above, said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not 
merely to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general 
application. The aim of the Principles- based regulation described by Ouseley J. 
was precisely not to attempt to formulate a code covering all possible 
circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as those set out in 
Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. 
The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included the 
Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations that 
were required to be taken into account.
Ive considered the High Court decision in Adams v Options SIPP. Since that decision 
the Court of Appeal has handed down its judgment following its consideration of Mr 
Adams appeal. Ive taken both judgments into account when making this decision.
Ive considered whether the judgments mean that the Principles should not be taken into 
account in deciding this case and I find that they dont. In the high court judgment, 
Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles and 
they didnt form part of the pleadings submitted by Mr Adams. The Court of Appeal 
judgment gave no consideration to the application of the Principles either. So, Adams v 
Options SIPP says nothing about the application of the FCAs Principles to the 
ombudsmans consideration of a complaint.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of 
statutory duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles 
into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. 
And, Jacobs J adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in 
BBSAL. I am therefore satisfied that the FCAs Principles are a relevant consideration 
that I must take into account when deciding this complaint.
COBS 2.1.1R
The rule says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R overlaps with certain of the Principles, and that this rule 
was considered by HHJ Dight in the Adams v Options SIPP case. Mr Edams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he 
argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ 
Dight rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests 
rule on the facts of the Adams case.
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the 
COBS claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was 
radically different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr 
Adams appeal did not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight 
had dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new 
case.
Overall, I am satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R remains a relevant consideration  but that it 
needs to be considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual context of Mr Es case.
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged 
by Mr Adams and from the issues in Mr Es complaint. The breaches were summarised in 
paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he was 
not asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept 
the store pods investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different.
So I have considered COBS 2.1.1R, alongside the remainder of the relevant 
considerations, and within the factual context of Mr Es case, including PSFMs role in the 
transaction.
However, I think it is important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which 
include: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time. This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and 
the judgments in Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the 
formal pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications 
which remind SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might 
achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I have considered those publications but will only refer to the 2009 Thematic Review 
in detail.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide 
advice, are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar 
as they are obliged to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 
3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS 
purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. It is the 
responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer 
outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the 
SIPP advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that 
SIPP operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would 
expect them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could 
then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member 
to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of 
poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP 
operators who do not safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with 
reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate 
risk management systems)
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could 
consider, taken from examples of good practice that we observed and 
suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that 
intermediaries that advise clients are authorised and regulated by 
the FSA, that they have the appropriate permissions to give the 
advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they do not 
appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, 
and clarifying respective responsibilities, with intermediaries 
introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the 
SIPP investment) and size of investments recommended by 
intermediaries that give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so 
that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small 
or large transactions or more esoteric investments such as 
unquoted shares, together with the intermediary that introduced the 
business. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned 
about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by 
the intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not 
responsible for advice, having this information would enhance the 
firms understanding of its clients, making the facilitation of 
unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have 
signed disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment 
decisions, and gathering and analysing data regarding the 
aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for this.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody 
of assets is through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual 
agreements are correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at 
point of purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that 
previous investors have received income if expected, or that any 
investment providers are credit worthy etc.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports 
and Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their importance 
should be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses 
apply and are an indication for the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it 
is treating its customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In 
that respect, the publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP 
operators should be doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to 
good industry practice at the time, and I am therefore satisfied it is appropriate to take 
them into account.
Like the ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact that the publications 
(other than the 2009 Thematic Review Report) post-date the events that are the 
subject of this complaint mean that the examples of good industry practice they 
provide were not good practice at the time of the events. The later publications were 
published after the events subject to this complaint, but the Principles that underpin 
them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance with those 
Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter 
published in 2014) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good industry practices into the conduct of their business already. So, 
whilst the regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of 
how the standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it 
is clear the standards themselves had not changed.
It is important to bear in mind that the reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave 
non- exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the 
suggestions given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to 
the Dear CEO letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will 
depend on the circumstances.
Its also important to keep in mind the judgments in Adams v Options did not consider 
the regulatory publications in the context of considering what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances bearing in mind various matters including the Principles (as part 
of the regulators rules) or good industry practice.
Overall, in determining this complaint I need to consider whether PSFM complied with its 
regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, 
to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay 
due regards to the interests of its customers (in this case Mr E), to treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles 
and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what PSFM could have done 
to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Due diligence by PSFM and the Introducer Agreement
PSFM is an execution only SIPP operator.  It does not dispute that in that role it had some 
responsibility for the SIPP business it carried on.  It says it has always been aware of the 
obligations it is under especially following the publication of the FSAs report on its Thematic 
Review in 2009.
As mentioned above, that report included:
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could 
consider, taken from examples of good practice that we observed and 
suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that 
intermediaries that advise clients are authorised and regulated by 
the FSA, that they have the appropriate permissions to give the 
advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they do not 
appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, 
and clarifying respective responsibilities, with intermediaries 
introducing SIPP business.
PSFM says it made the checks and carried out the steps referred to above.  So it is not in 
dispute that some level of checks were appropriate.  And I do not think it is in dispute that 
PSFM was free to decide not to enter a Terms of Business agreement with a potential 
introducer, and refuse to accept any business from it, if it was not happy with the outcome of 
the checks it made.
PSFMs position is that it made appropriate checks on Mr H, established he was an 
appointed representative of Openwork which was a regulated firm authorised to advise on 
pensions and investments.  PSFM says it entered into an Introducer Agreement with Mr H.  
And as set out above in my Provisional Decision, PSFM says, and I accept, the agreement 
included provisions along the following lines:
The Introducer is either a Solicitor, Accountant, or is authorised and 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, with registration number [
].
The Company wishes to appoint the Introducer to introduce 
Individuals to it who wish to enter into a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension operated by the Company.
The Introducer wishes to accept the appointment and has agreed to 
introduce individuals to the Company to enable those individuals to enter 
into a PSFM SIPP.
The introducer accepts responsibility for the suitability of any advice 
provided to the Individual in respect of any Investments comprised within 
the PSFM SIPP in accordance with the requirements of the FCAs 
Handbook of rules and guidance.The introducer warrants and undertakes to the Company that:
It is, and for the duration of this Agreement will be, authorised and 
regulated by the FCA
In respect of FCA authorised and regulated firms it has the appropriate 
FSMA Part 4A permissions to provide advice to, or manage a discretionary 
investment portfolio on behalf of, the Individuals
It has full capacity and authority to perform its duties under the Introducer 
Agreement.
The Agreement with Mr H was on the basis he was with an introducer who was authorised 
and regulated by the FSA/FCA - not on the basis Mr H was a solicitor or accountant or an 
unregulated firm that would not be giving regulated advice.
PSFM was content to enter into its Introducer Agreement with Mr H given his status as an 
approved person who was able to give regulated advice as an appointed representative of 
Openwork. But to be clear, PSFM entered into an Introducer Agreement with Mr H, not with 
Openwork.  
Mr Hs status as an appointed representative
According to Openwork Mr H resigned as an appointed representative on 17 July 2010  but 
he was still shown as an appointed representative on the FCA register until 22 July and the 
SIPP application was dated 19 July.  So if PSFM had checked the register at that time he 
would have appeared to be authorised as an appointed representative even though he had 
apparently been suspended since April and had just resigned days before.  That was not 
known to PSFM and so it was not at fault for thinking he was an appointed representative of 
Openwork at the time of Mr Hs application in July 2010.
In any event it is not in dispute that Mr H was an appointed representative of Openwork 
when PSFM entered into an Introducer Agreement with him in 2010.  Although Mr H was 
registered as an appointed representative, as I set out in my provisional decision, PSFM 
should not have treated Mr H as if he were an authorised person as he was not.  He was 
only an appointed representative of an authorised person, Openwork.  His status was that of 
approved person only.  His principal, Openwork, was the authorised person.  It was 
Openwork, not Mr H, who had the appropriate FSMA Part 4A permissions to provide 
advice
Mr H was only authorised to do the regulated business Openwork authorised him to do.  
Advising on setting up SIPPs and transferring or switching existing pensions to the SIPP and 
advising on buying investments in a SIPP are ordinarily regulated activities.  So as an 
appointed representative Mr H could only do these things if authorised to do so by his 
principal.  Appropriate checks on Mr H should therefore have included checks on and with 
his principal.  
Openwork
As I said in my Provisional Decision, Openwork is a restricted product range firm.  This is a 
point that should have been known to PSFM if it was considering accepting business 
introduced from Mr H who it understood to be an appointed representative of Openwork.  Openwork limits the pensions and investments its appointed representatives may advise 
upon to an approved list or panel of product provider companies.  And the PSFM SIPP is not 
one of the pensions its advisers are authorised to advise upon.
PSFM is sceptical about what Openwork says it is responsible for. PSFM says its in 
Openworks commercial interest to deny any responsibility for the advice to Mr H.  And it 
says without an analysis of the appointed representative agreement that governed Mr Hs 
operations there is no evidence that Openwork didnt authorise Mr H.
The restricted product range business model and the consequences this has on the advice 
an adviser has permission from Openwork to do is not however a point PSFM should have 
ignored or made assumptions about.  PSFM should have carried out reasonable checks, 
consistent with its role as an execution only SIPP operator, so that it could make a decision 
about whether or not to enter into an Introducer Agreement with Mr H in an appropriately 
informed way.  
PSFM should have known that Openwork operated an approved list of providers for various 
investment products.  And PSFM should have known Openwork had an approved provider 
of SIPPs and that it was not on its approved list of SIPP operators.  So from these points 
alone PSFM ought to have known that it was more likely than not that Mr H was not 
authorised by Openwork to advise on its SIPPs just as Openwork says. 
As I said in my Provisional Decision PSFM should have known this and would have done if it 
had carried out appropriate checks on Mr H.  It would have known if it properly understood 
Mr Hs regulatory status and checked that he was authorised by his principal to introduce 
PSFMs SIPPs and carry on the regulated activities he was likely to carry on when acting in 
that role  ie advising on and arranging deals in pensions and investments.  Had it done so it 
would have realised Mr H did not have permission from Openwork to carry on those 
regulated activities.
A single braided stream of advice
PSFM says that even if Mr H was not authorised by Openwork to advise on PSFM SIPPs he 
was authorised to advise on the sale of existing personal pensions and so both parts of that 
single linked transaction became authorised.  
PSFM says the point of the TenetConnect decision is that a single braided stream of advice 
does constitute regulated advice and is therefore within the scope of the appointed 
representatives authority if the authority would have captured the selling advice on a 
standalone basis. So Openwork remains responsible for Mr Hs acts and omissions and 
there is no issue with his advice not being authorised by Openwork.  
When I issued my provisional decision in this case I also issued a provisional decision in a 
complaint by another consumer about PSFM relating to the same introducer and investment.  
In my provisional decision in that cases I said:
[The consumer] complained to Openwork. It did not uphold his complaint. [The 
consumer] referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and an 
Ombudsman agreed that Openwork was not responsible for the advice [Mr H] had 
given as it had not authorised him to advise on PSFM SIPPs or the Dunas Beach 
investment.
The Ombudsman in that case did not just accept Openworks assertion.  He considered the 
Openwork appointed representative agreement. He made his decision in 2020 after both the 
TenetConect case and the Anderson v Sense case both of which he took into account. The Ombudsman decided Openwork was not responsible for any part of the advice the 
consumer had received from Mr H.
As no part of what PSFM says was a single braided stream of advice was authorised by 
Openwork this means Openwork was not responsible for the advice.
I do not accept that I should consider that Openwork is responsible for Mr Hs acts and 
omissions in relation to the advice to sell Mr Es existing pension or that Openwork 
authorised the advice 
Mr H gave to Mr E in this case.    
In my provisional decision I said:
If PSFM had checked with Openwork, it would have discovered that Mr H was not 
authorised to do business with it. And in turn it would have refused to accept any 
business from Mr H.
PSFMs argument does not answer this point.  Openwork had an approved SIPP provider on 
its list.  If PSFM had checked with Openwork it would have found out that Openwork did not 
authorise Mr H to advise on PSFMs SIPP because it was not its listed SIPP provider.  That 
should have been enough for PSFM to refuse to enter into an Introducer Agreement with 
Mr H or otherwise accept business form him.  I cannot see that PSFM would have carried on 
in the belief that Openwork was wrong about the authority it gives its appointed 
representatives and think that in some limited circumstances the appointed representative 
would be authorised and that it would therefore do business with Mr H despite what 
Openwork would have said.
PSFM has not said it made enquiries about which personal pensions Mr H could advise 
upon.  And it made no attempt to limit Mr Hs Introducer Agreement only to cases where Mr 
H was advising on switching from pensions on Openworks approved list of pension 
providers. Nor has PSFM said that it checked SIPP applications introduced by Mr H to 
ensure that the applicant was switching away from a pension with a provider on Openworks 
approved list. 
Accordingly if in a particular case Mr H was advising on switching away from a pension from 
a provider on Openworks list of approved providers, this was by chance and not through 
planning on PSFMs part.  This is not a sound basis upon which to have entered into an 
Introducer Agreement with Mr H.
Also doing business with Mr H without first checking with Openwork exposed clients such as 
Mr E to the risk, which PSFM has referred to as entirely predictable, that Openwork would 
refuse to accept responsibility for the advice given by Mr H.  This means the client was 
exposed to the risk of receiving advice in breach of the General Prohibition which was not 
subject to the usual supervision a regulated adviser is subject to and thus at greater risk of 
advice that was not in the clients best interest and in relation to which the usual regulatory 
safeguards of access to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service would not be available.  In short, the risks of consumer detriment from 
dealing with an adviser who was not authorised to give the advice he was giving were 
considerable.
So it remains my view that PSFM should not have entered into an Introducer Agreement with 
Mr H or otherwise accepted business introduced by him.
Reasonable checks in the circumstances PSFM says there is nothing in the extract of the FCA publications referred to in the 
provisional decision and above that would require investigation of an appointed 
representatives principal beyond checking the register as PSFM did.  I do not agree with this 
point.  It is important to think about the principles involved rather than get caught up on the 
precise wording of the examples of best practice the regulator gave.  The point is about 
safeguarding customers interests by checking that those introducers who give advice are 
authorised.  Checks should be appropriate to the circumstances.  In the case of an 
appointed representative of a principal with a restricted product range business model PSFM 
should have made checks appropriate to those circumstances.  Just checking the register 
was not enough to find out if Mr H was authorised to advise in relation to PSFMs SIPPs.  
And not making enough checks meant there a was a real risk that the introducer would be 
giving advice he was not authorised to give.
It remains my view that PSFM was mistaken in thinking that Mr H met the criteria it applied 
when considering potential introducers.  It was wrong to treat him as an authorised person 
who was authorised and regulated by the regulator and had the appropriate permissions to 
give the advice he gave.  His authority to give pensions and investment advice came from 
Openwork and that authority was limited meaning he did not have authority or permission to 
give the advice he gave.
It remains my view that If PSFM had checked with Openwork, it would have discovered that 
Mr H was not authorised to do business with it. And in turn it would have refused to accept 
any business from Mr H. 
It remains my view that PSFM should not have entered into an Introducer Agreement with Mr 
H or otherwise accepted business introduced from him.  This means it should not have 
accepted Mr Es application for a PSFM SIPP, his application to switch his existing pension 
to it and his application to invest in the Dunas Beach resort investment.
Is it fair and reasonable to hold PSFM responsible for Mr Es losses?
PSFM says Mr Hs advice, and therefore Openwork and/or his employer, are responsible for 
Mr Es loss not PSFMs act of accepting the business he introduced to it.  
PSFM says Mr Hs acts are an intervening act which breaks any chain of causation linking it 
to the loss suffered.  However, PSFM was not only in error in entering into the Introducer 
Agreement with Mr H sometime before it accepted Mr Hs application.  PSFM was in error 
when it accepted Mr Hs application as introduced by Mr H  and that error postdates Mr Hs 
advice.  It cannot therefore be an intervening act.  I do not accept that it is fair and 
reasonable to say that PSFM is not responsible for Mr Hs loss for this reason.
I have however still considered whether it is fair and reasonable to hold PSFM responsible if 
Mr H was the initial cause of the problem that led to Mr Es loss.
I cannot look at any complaint against Mr H personally or his employer.  And I have 
explained the Financial Ombudsman Service was also unable to consider a complaint 
against Openwork either.  In this decision I have looked at PSFMs separate role and 
responsibilities and I have found that it failed to meet those responsibilities.  So I need to 
consider what Mr E would have done if that had not happened.  
Mr H might have tried to introduce Mr Hs business to another SIPP provider but any other 
SIPP provider ought reasonably to have refused that business for the same reasons as 
PSFM.  It is not fair and reasonable to say that PSFM should not be found responsible 
because another SIPP operator might also have failed to make appropriate checks on Mr H.  If Mr E had become aware that PSFM (or other SIPP operators) would not accept his 
application from Mr H it would have given him cause to question the advice he was given.  
And I think it is more likely than not that he would not have gone ahead with Mr Hs advice in 
the form it was in.  
If Mr H could not introduce SIPP business that involved Dunas Beach Investments in this 
case, given the timing of events and Mr Hs suspension by Openwork, it seems more likely 
than not that he would have told Mr H he could no longer help him and that he should 
consult an authorised IFA.  
I do not consider it likely that Mr H would have been advised to move his pension to 
Openworks authorised SIPP to make the same Dunas Beach resort investment by Mr H 
(or one of his colleagues) acting on behalf of Openwork. It was not an Openwork 
authorised investment. Nor do I consider that any other regulated financial adviser acting 
reasonably would have advised Mr H that investing his pension in the Dunas Beach 
Resort investment was suitable for him. It is a higher risk, esoteric investment that is 
unsuitable for a pension investment for most retail investors.
It is my view that in the light of what PSFM knew, or ought to have known, about 
Mr H and his principal Openwork before it received Mr Es application, it didnt comply 
with good industry practice, act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and control 
its affairs responsibly, or treat Mr E fairly by accepting his application. And I think that, 
in not doing so, it allowed him to be put at significant risk of detriment.  It did not act in 
its customers best interest as required in its role as an execution only SIPP provider.
Im not saying  that PSFM  should  have  assessed  the suitability  of the investment  
or the SIPP  for Mr E. I accept  that PSFM  had no obligation  to give advice  to Mr 
E, or otherwise  ensure  the suitability  of a pension  product  or investment  for him. 
My finding  is not that PSFM  should  have  concluded  that the investment  or SIPP  
was not suitable  for Mr E. Rather  it is that PSFM  did not meet  its regulatory  
obligations,  or treat Mr H fairly,  by accepting  his application  for a SIPP  introduced  
by Mr H.
In the circumstances, it is my view that Mr H would not have suffered the same loss if 
PSFM had refused to accept his application and that it is fair and reasonable to hold 
PSFM responsible for the losses Mr H has suffered.
The points made on behalf of Mr E
I have thought again about the level of compensation that is fair Mr E in the circumstances.  I 
note that PSFM took court action against Mr E in relation to SIPP fees which is a separate 
matter but would not have occurred at all if PSFM had not accepted his application for a 
SIPP.  On reflection I consider £750 is a more appropriate level of compensation for the 
considerable distress and inconvenience he has been caused in relation to his SIPP and its 
investment the Dunas Beach Resort.
I do not however consider that an award in relation to the costs of representation in the 
complaint is appropriate.  The ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution forum.  
It was not essential that Mr E obtain such representation.  It is not our normal practice to 
make such awards and I do not see any reason not to follow our usual practice in this case.
Mr Es adviser says if I award Mr E compensation and it is paid into Mr Es SIPP he will need 
regulated advice on transferring his SIPP to a suitable pension.  I do award Mr E 
compensation below and as the intention is to put Mr E in the position he would have been in if things had not gone wrong the redress ought to be paid into Mr Es pension.  However it is 
possible PSFM may not do and may pay the award direct.  But even if it does apply redress 
into the pension it seems more likely than not that Mr E, who has been consulting his IFA for 
a number of years now, would have incurred expense in relation to his pension in any event 
either up to this point or in the near future as he gets closer to his retirement age.  As Mr E 
will in effect getting a refund of the past expense incurred when he changed his pension 
arrangements in 2010 I do not think it is right to make further provision for the costs he might 
incur if he takes further advice on his pension after the redress has been paid.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr E should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
reasonably be in if things had not gone wrong. In my view that means comparing Mr Es 
present position to the position he would be in if he had not moved his existing personal 
pension.
It is therefore my view that PSFM should put things right as follows:
PSFM should calculate fair compensation by comparing the value of Mr Es pension, if he 
had not transferred, with the current value of his SIPP.  In summary:
1. Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Es previous pension plan, if it had not been 
transferred been transferred to the SIPP.
2. Obtain the actual transfer value of Mr Es SIPP, including any outstanding charges.
3. Pay a commercial value to buy the Dunas Beach investment (or treat it as having a 
zero value in the compensation calculations).
4. Pay an amount into Mr Es SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the 
value calculated in (1). This payment should take account of any available tax relief 
and the effect of charges. It should also take account of interest as set out below.
5. If the SIPP needs to be kept open only as a result of the Dunas Beach investment 
and used only or substantially to hold that asset, then any future SIPP fees should be 
waived until the SIPP can be closed.
6. PSFM should also refund to Mr E any fees or charges he has paid from money other 
than the money originally transferred in form his personal pension together with 8 % 
simple interest per year from the date the fee or charge was paid until the date of this 
decision.
7. Pay Mr E £750 for the distress and inconvenience the avoidable problems with his 
pension will have caused him.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation of the previous pension, then 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index should be used instead. That 
is a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been achieved if suitable 
funds had been chosen taking account of Mr Es likely attitude to risk.
If PSFM is unwilling or unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the above calculation. And PSFM may ask Mr E to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP 
may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax 
and charges on the amount Mr E may receive from the investments and any eventual 
sums he would be able to access from the SIPP. PSFM will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
If PSFM is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Es SIPP it should pay the 
compensation as a lump sum to Mr E. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP it 
would have provided a taxable income. So the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Es marginal rate of tax at 
retirement. For example, if Mr E is a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional 
allowance would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current basic 
rate of tax.
However, if Mr E would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the notional 
allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mr E or into his 
SIPP within 28 days of the date PSFM receives notification of his acceptance of this 
final decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% 
per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the 
compensation is not paid within 28 days.
My final decision
My decision is that Mr Es complaint should be upheld for the reasons I have set 
out above and that PSFM SIPP Limited should pay fair compensation and interest 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman