DRN-3543263
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc made errors with their mortgage offer. They 
ask for compensation of about £3,300 for legal costs, inconvenience and stress.
What happened
HSBC issued a mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs C on 10 November 2021. Mr and Mrs Cs 
solicitor signed the purchase contract on their behalf on 2 December 2021 (Mr and Mrs C 
were on holiday overseas). Later that day HSBC withdrew the mortgage offer as there was a 
discrepancy with the purchase price. The situation was resolved, and HSBC released funds 
on 3 December 2021. However, it was too late to complete that day, and completion was 
delayed to 6 December 2021, the next working day. 
Mr and Mrs C say they incurred additional legal fees. And they were caused stress, and 
missed part of their holiday. Mr and Mrs C say their solicitor had sent documents with the 
correct purchase price to HSBCs conveyancer on 19 and 26 November 2021. They say the 
error was due to HSBCs conveyancer and HSBC should take responsibility.
HSBC said Mr and Mrs C, their broker or their solicitor should have told it the purchase price 
had changed. Its solicitor picked this up when doing final checks. 
Our investigator said it wasnt fair to require HSBC to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs C. 
He said the problem wasnt caused by HSBC, and Mr and Mrs C, their broker and solicitor all 
had opportunities to spot the incorrect purchase price in the mortgage offer. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They said theyd incurred costs through no fault of their own. 
They said HSBCs solicitor should have said there was a problem before the purchase 
contract was signed. They said they couldnt understand why HSBC asked about their 
additional legal fees if it didnt intend to compensate them. They said HSBC was at least part 
to blame and should cover some of their costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC issued a mortgage offer on 10 November 2021. This included the purchase price it 
had been given by Mr and Mrs Cs broker. Theres no suggestion HSBC was told this was 
incorrect before 29 November 2021, when it received the certificate of title. HSBC contacted 
its solicitors to check the purchase price.
Although the increase in the purchase price was relatively small, it caused the mortgage to 
be declined as unaffordable. Initially, HSBC withdrew the offer. It then agreed to leave the 
purchase price at the lower amount to allow the mortgage to complete. HSBC released 
funds on 3 December 2021. However, it was too late to complete the purchase that day. The 
purchase completed on the next working day, 6 December 2021.
Mr and Mrs C say HSBCs solicitor should have noticed the higher purchase price which was 
in documents their solicitor sent to it. They say HSBC is responsible for the actions of its 
solicitors. Of course, had the solicitor spotted the discrepancy earlier, there would have been 
more time to sort the problem out. Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have been in such a difficult and 
stressful position on 2 December 2021. But I dont think its fair to say that HSBC was 
responsible  or even mostly responsible  for the discrepancy not being spotted sooner.
Mr and Mrs C also said HSBCs solicitor shouldnt have given their solicitor the go-ahead to 
sign the purchase contract. I cant comment on the actions of the two firms of solicitors. 
Usually, customers dont sign or exchange purchase contracts or agree a completion date 
until they have a mortgage offer in place. Here the mortgage offer issued in November 2021 
wasnt correct. In effect, Mr and Mrs C became legally obliged to buy a property without a 
valid mortgage offer. This put them in a difficult position when HSBC became aware of the 
discrepancy.
When it issued the mortgage offer, HSBC used the purchase price given to it by the broker. I 
think its reasonable for HSBC to expect the broker to provide correct information, and to 
update this if it changes. And I think its reasonable for HSBC to expect Mr and Mrs C, their 
broker and their solicitor to check the mortgage offer is correct and let it know if it isnt. 
This must have been a stressful time for Mr and Mrs C, especially as they were on holiday. 
But there were several parties that could have spotted the incorrect purchase price in the 
mortgage offer (including Mr and Mrs C) before HSBC was even aware of the discrepancy. I 
dont think HSBC was responsible for Mr and Mrs C becoming legally bound to buy the 
property without a valid mortgage offer in place. When HSBC was told about the discrepancy 
with the purchase price it acted promptly to find a way for the mortgage to complete. 
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require HSBC to pay 
compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman