DRN-4252433
The complaint
Miss C complains about credit granted to her by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited
trading as Barclays Partner Finance (Barclays).
What happened
Barclays agreed credit of £6,236 for Miss C in October 2018 in order to acquire a used
car. The cash price of the car was £6,437. The total amount owing under the agreement
came to £7,916.80 including interest and charges. Miss C paid £400 up front and the
remainder was to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of £156.60.
The credit was granted under a conditional sale agreement meaning Barclays was the
owner and Miss C was, in essence, paying for the use of the car. Miss C had direct
debits returned in 2019 and into 2020 and made no payments in 2020, apart from a lump
sum payment in December. She paid another lump sum in February 2021 and then
resumed her direct debit payments temporarily. The account was eventually defaulted in
April 2021 and the agreement terminated. The balance on the account was £4,150.50 at
the time of writing.
Miss C said that Barclays should not have agreed to lend to her because she couldnt
afford to meet the repayments. She said that she was struggling financially at the time
and had difficulty with her mental health. Miss C that Barclays didnt carry out adequate
checks before lending to her to see if she could afford or cope with this finance.
Barclays didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. It said it carried out a number of checks prior
to making its lending decision. These included an affordability check, a credit file check
and assessment of the application details against internal lending criteria. When it
received Miss Cs complaint it carried out a manual affordability check and still found that
the loan would have been affordable.
Miss C wasnt happy with this response and referred her complaint to us. Our investigator
looked into what happened when Miss Cs finance was agreed and found that Barclays 
should have carried out a more comprehensive affordability assessment than it did before
entering into an agreement with her. However, they also found that further checks
wouldnt have shown the credit to be unaffordable and so didnt recommend that her
complaint be upheld.
Miss C didnt agree with this recommendation. She said that she was struggling with her
finances at the time and Barclays should have known this. Miss C explained that she was
living in her overdraft and had recently increased her credit card borrowing. Miss C asked
for her complaint to come to an ombudsman for a review and it came to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 June 2023 explaining why I planned to uphold Miss Cs 
complaint. I shared the information Id relied on and allowed time for either party to comment 
on what Id said or provide any new arguments or information for consideration. Barclays 
agreed with my provisional decision and I havent had any comment or new information from 
Miss C. 
This is my final decision on this complaint and will be legally binding on both parties should 
Miss C choose to accept it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything and having no further comments or information to consider, 
Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. Ill set out my reasons again 
for upholding Miss Cs complaint and explain what needs to happen now to put things right 
for her.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Barclays lent to Miss C.
Its rules and guidance said that before agreeing credit for Miss C, Barclays needed to
check that she could afford to meet her repayments sustainably. In other words without
incurring or increasing problem indebtedness, without having to borrow further, and
while meeting her other debt payments and other normal outgoings. These checks
needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount and term, for
example) and to Miss Cs particular circumstances.
Ultimately, Barclays needed to treat Miss C fairly and take full account of her interests
when making its lending decision. It would not be lending fairly if it targeted customers
with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them, by virtue of their
indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did Barclays complete reasonable and
proportionate checks when assessing Miss Cs application to satisfy itself that she would
be able to make her repayments sustainably over the term of the agreement? If not,
what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? Did Barclays make a fair
lending decision?
Barclays said that it carried out sufficient affordability checks before agreeing credit for
Miss C. According to Miss Cs application record her gross annual income was £23,000,
which would equate to a monthly net income of less than £1,600. Barclays said the
income figure it relied on was verified by its internal systems using details from the bank
account Miss C held with it. I dont know if Barclays took steps to verify Miss Cs income
at the time of her application or later when it reviewed its affordability checks following her
complaint. Barclays also said it checked Miss Cs credit file but has been unable to
provide us with this information and so I dont know what it knew about her existing debt.
In addition, Ive seen no evidence that Barclays looked into Miss Cs other expenses
before agreeing to lend to her.
Altogether, in this case I am unable to find that Barclays carried out a proportionate check
or took into account all the information it had access to. Miss C would need to meet her
repayments for four years and could potentially lose access to the car if she couldnt
manage this. I think it would have been proportionate in this case for Barclays to have
considered Miss Cs means in more depth before lending to her.
Miss C provided us with bank account statements from the time, including her Barclays
statements, and a recent copy of her credit file. Ive relied on these to consider what
Barclays was likely to have found out about her means had it investigated further. As
mentioned, I dont know if Barclays took this information into account at the time, although it 
had access to it.The statements show that Miss C was receiving about £1,350 a month in wages and
about £350 in state benefits including child benefit. (This may be the origin of the gross
annual figure of £23,000). Miss C was paying about £260 a month towards her existing
debts. These included revolving debt of about £7,000, loans of about £2,000 and fees to
Barclays for her overdraft of £2,120. The statements show that Miss Cs income wasnt
enough to take her out of her overdraft and shed been reliant on this credit throughout
2018 at least. The statements also show that Miss Cs usual living costs including
household bills, food and petrol came to about £650 a month. My estimate leaves Miss C
with about £630 after meeting these costs and her car finance payment for other costs
such as clothing, child-related costs or rent.
This brings me to the consideration of Miss Cs circumstances at the time. Miss C shared
with us that she was living in rented accommodation until August 2018. Her rent was £850
a month plus council tax of £90. Miss C explained that she was struggling financially and
was reliant on credit cards and her overdraft for necessities. She moved out of her rented
accommodation and lived with a friend for a time while she was waiting for temporary
council accommodation. Miss C told us that she moved into affordable housing in
December 2018 where her rent was £650 a month. 
Barclays customer contact records show that Miss Cs address details changed twice before 
January 2019. The agreement began in October 2018, when Miss C was waiting to be 
housed. Miss Cs bank statements show her rental payments prior to her moves but dont 
cover beyond September 2018. It seems plausible to me that Miss C would need to pay rent, 
though perhaps not at her previous rate and Barclays should have taken this cost into
consideration.
Taking everything into account, I dont think the finance repayments were affordable for
Miss C or sustainable over the agreement term. I think its more likely than not that
Barclays would have concluded the same had it carried out a proportionate check and it
would have declined to lend to her. Ive concluded that Barclays was irresponsible to have
entered into this agreement with Miss C.
As mentioned above, Miss C had problems meeting her repayments. Her direct debits for
January and December 2019 were returned and she didnt make payments again until
December 2020. Meanwhile shed defaulted on most of her debt, including her Barclays
current account overdraft, and incurred two county court judgements. I think agreeing this
credit added to Miss Cs financial difficulties and Im upholding her complaint.
Miss C shared with us that she had been diagnosed with mental health conditions at the
time and was taking medication for these. She said that she wasnt in the correct state of
mind to have entered into the agreement. Let me say at this point that I am sorry to hear
that things have been so difficult for Miss C. Ive reviewed the customer notes along with
everything else available and I havent seen anything which makes me think that Barclays
would have, or should have, been aware about her mental health conditions and
considered that these impacted on her ability to make decisions about her finances. So I
cant find that Barclays got something wrong in this regard specifically.
Putting things right
The cash price of the car was £6,437. Miss C paid a £201 cash deposit and so borrowed 
£6,236 from Barclays. Shes repaid £3,371.40 in total since the agreement began, including 
her deposit and a £199 advance payment. I understand that Miss C hasnt made any 
payments towards the agreement for some time. So Miss Cs payments for the car dont 
come to more than the amount she borrowed.Miss C told us that she would like to retain the car and come to an arrangement with
Barclays to pay the outstanding balance, minus any interest or charges incurred under the
agreement. Barclays can extend this offer to Miss C if it wishes. I dont feel I can direct
Barclays to do so, given how much of the amount borrowed would remain outstanding and
that Barclays would need to consider the affordability of any arrangement for Miss C.
Putting Miss C back into the position she would have been in had Barclays not agreed to the
credit would begin with returning all her payments. However, Miss C has had the use of the
car from October 2018 to now, some 55 months, and shes driven it 29,345 miles. I think its
fair Miss C pays something for that use. Afterall, Barclays is the owner of the car and Miss C
would likely have had to pay to stay mobile if she hadnt had the use of the car over the
years.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage charge should be. In deciding
whats fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the
agreement and Miss Cs usage of the car, for example. I think it would be fair in this case for
Barclays to retain all the payments Miss Cs made as a usage charge.
I understand that the agreement has already been terminated. Barclays should now:
Collect the car with nothing further for Miss C to pay;
Retain all her payments towards the car as a usage charge;
Remove all adverse information from Miss Cs credit file in relation to the agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I am upholding Miss Cs complaint about Clydesdale
Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance and it now needs to take the 
above steps to put things right for her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman