DRN-3021432
The complaint
Ms T complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) unfairly defaulted her account.
What happened
Ms T held a current account with RBS and this account had an arranged overdraft. Ms T was 
using the overdraft, and the account, regularly through to February 2019. Ms T exceeded her 
overdraft limit that month but was able to bring her balance back below the limit.
Ms T exceeded her overdraft limit again in March 2019 and wasnt able to bring her account 
back within the limit. Ms Ts income also stopped being paid to this account.
Ms Ts account continued to accrue fees until November 2019 and interest until February 
2020. RBS closed Ms Ts account and placed a default on her credit file in February 2020.
Ms T noticed her credit score had reduced considerably, checked her credit file and saw the 
default on her RBS account. Ms T complained to RBS, she felt the default was unfair as she 
hadnt been sent any default notices.
Ms T also felt RBS should be doing more to help her in line with the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) rules around assisting consumers during the pandemic. The FCA guidance 
allowed for payment holidays for people whose income had been impacted by the pandemic.
Ms T has long term physical conditions which have affected her mobility and shes currently 
unable to work. Ms T has also experienced depression for some time and has explained the 
past year has been particularly distressing for her, including three bereavements.
Ms T feels RBS should be supporting her more. As a resolution to her complaint Ms T asked 
RBS to remove the default and write off the debt she owed.
RBS responded to say it had sent Ms T several letters and texts about her account and the 
arrears. RBS said it had sent a default notice and a final demand and felt it had done enough 
to warn Ms T of the position of her account and the default.
RBS felt the FCA rules didnt apply to Ms T as her account went over her limit, and was 
defaulted, prior to the rules coming into force. RBS also said it had passed Ms Ts debt to a 
third party debt collector.
Ms T wasnt happy with this response and felt RBS had discriminated against her by not 
supporting her and applying the default. Ms T brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things and felt Ms Ts complaint should be upheld in part. The 
investigator thought RBS had defaulted Ms Ts account much later than it should have. The 
investigator thought RBS should backdate Ms Ts default to June 2019 and refund any 
interest and charges after that date.
The investigator didnt think RBS failed to support Ms T, as a vulnerable consumer, because 
the investigator couldnt see RBS was aware of Ms Ts vulnerabilities. Ms T has explained 
shes told RBS on numerous occasions about her physical and mental health conditions.
But the investigator did think RBS had treated Ms T unfairly when she asked for copies of 
her default letters. RBS told Ms T to submit a subject access request (SAR) for copies of the 
letters. The investigator thought RBS should have just sent the letters to Ms T.
Because of this poor service, the investigator thought RBS should pay Ms T £100.
RBS agreed with the investigators assessment. Ms T disagreed, she felt £100 wasnt 
enough to compensate her for the effect RBS errors had on her credit file. Ms T said she still 
hadnt received copies of the default notices RBS said it sent. And Ms T felt it was unfair 
RBS continued to deny it knew she was vulnerable.
Ms T asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms T had been managing her account within her overdraft for some considerable time prior 
to February 2019. Ms T had also been receiving her income into the account.
Ms T made two electronic payments in the middle of March 2019, leaving less than £5 
available in her overdraft. Charges were applied a few days later and these took Ms Ts 
balance over her overdraft limit.
The income that had been crediting Ms Ts account also stopped being paid to the RBS 
account. It appears Ms Ts income was being credited elsewhere, so I think Ms T should 
have been aware of her balance and aware money wasnt being paid to her RBS account.
Because Ms T had exceeded her overdraft RBS tried to contact her. Ive seen RBS contact 
notes, it sent Ms T a letter on 7 March 2019, a text on 11 March 2019 and tried to call Ms T 
twice, on 12 and 15 March 2019. It doesnt appear Ms T responded to any of this contact.
RBS then paused contact for several months. RBS hasnt explained why it stopped contact, 
and I cant see why it did either. RBS placed a pause on collections activity in March 2019 
and this pause lasted for six months.
Because Ms Ts account never went back within her agreed overdraft this pause seems too 
long. I dont think RBS treated Ms T fairly here. I think RBS should have continued to attempt 
to contact Ms T or started the default process, not pause things for so long.
Ms T paid small amounts into her account but this wasnt enough to cover the charges and 
interest due. Ms T then stopped paying anything to her account from mid-July 2019.
RBS sent five further letters in October and November 2019 and then a default letter at the 
end of November 2019. I think RBS did enough to make Ms T aware of the position of her 
account.I think RBS acted fairly when it defaulted Ms Ts account. The balance on Ms Ts account 
exceeded her overdraft limit and she was incurring monthly charges and interest. Ms T 
wasnt paying in enough to service the debt on her account. When RBS defaulted Ms Ts 
account these charges stopped.
But RBS delayed the default far too long. The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) has 
issued guidance around defaults. This guidance says an account should be defaulted once 
its three months in arrears and before it reaches six months.
RBS has already agreed to backdate the default to June 2019, three months from May 2019, 
and refund charges and interest after this date. I think this is a fair resolution.
Ms T has said she didnt receive the default notices, so its unfair of RBS to default her 
account. Ms T has mentioned its possible her mail went to the wrong address as where she 
lives is new housing. Ms T also asked RBS why it didnt send the default notice by registered 
or signed for mail.
There isnt an obligation on RBS to send a default notice by registered or signed for mail, 
even though its an important letter. I have to be satisfied RBS sent the letters to Ms Ts 
address, and having looked at its notes I am. 
So it follows Im satisfied RBS followed the correct process to default Ms Ts account.
Its clear Ms T was struggling with her finances. Ms T wasnt able to clear the overdraft on 
her RBS account between March 2019 and February 2020, when RBS defaulted the 
account. Im not persuaded Ms T could have avoided the default, by clearing the arrears, 
even if she had received the letters.
RBS doesnt have copies of the default notices it sent Ms T. RBS has sent in template letters 
and the notes on Ms Ts account show when RBS posted these letters out. Ive no reason to 
believe these notes are incorrect or the letters werent sent.
I understand Ms T would like copies of the notices, but RBS doesnt have them. I wouldnt 
necessarily expect RBS to hold copies of Ms Ts default notices. Keeping copies of all 
letters, or even the most important ones, would likely be impractical for most businesses.
Most businesses just keep a record of the type of letter they send, which is what RBS has 
done. This, along with templates of the letters and records of the address held at the time is, 
I think, enough to show which letters were sent, where and when. I dont think RBS done 
anything wrong by not keeping copies.
But RBS should have told Ms T this when she first requested copies. Instead, RBS told Ms T 
to raise a SAR. This seems unfair as RBS knew it didnt hold copies of the letters Ms T 
wanted, so it should just have told her this. And RBS had acknowledged Ms T was 
vulnerable at this point, so it should have known this would cause Ms T additional distress 
and upset.
Having considered all this, I think a payment of £100, to compensate for this poor service, is 
fair in the circumstances.
Ms T says the default has affected her credit score, and shed worked hard to improve it. 
Whilst Im sympathetic to Ms T, I dont think RBS made a mistake when it defaulted her 
account. If the default has reduced Ms Ts credit score, then this is the knock-on effect of a reasonable decision by RBS. I wont be asking RBS to do anything else to resolve this point.
And by backdating the default itll be removed from Ms Ts credit file sooner than it would 
have been.
Because I think RBS should have defaulted Ms Ts account in July 2019, I dont think the 
FCA rules and guidance around assisting consumers during the pandemic apply here. This 
is because these rules werent in place at the time Ms Ts account should have defaulted. 
And the rules only applied to consumers who werent in arrears, or financial problems, prior 
to the pandemic. I dont believe Ms T was eligible for this support.
RBS is now aware Ms T is a vulnerable adult, because of her long term physical and mental 
health conditions. And because of this, the Standards of Lending Practice say RBS should 
now think very carefully about whether it sells Ms Ts debt.
RBS hasnt sold Ms Ts debt, its passed it on to a third-party debt collector. If RBS is 
considering selling the debt in the future, I think it needs to ensure it thinks very carefully 
about whether this would lead to a fair outcome for Ms T.
Ms T feels RBS should have made absolutely sure she was aware of the pending default. 
There is an obligation on RBS to ensure it notifies Ms T, in a durable medium, about a 
pending default. I think it did this by sending out letters.
Theres nothing that says RBS must ensure Ms T is aware of the default process being 
started, and letters dont have to go out by signed for mail. I think RBS acted fairly when 
notifying Ms T about the default.
Ms T feels its unfair RBS defaulted her account, because shes vulnerable. Ive considered 
carefully what Ms T has said, but, in the circumstances, I wouldnt expect RBS to stop the 
default process.
If RBS hadnt defaulted Ms Ts account it would have continued to charge her. This would 
have meant Ms Ts debt would get larger, I dont think that would be a fair outcome for her.
I would expect RBS to give Ms T some extra time to clear her arrears, and it did. RBS 
paused collections activity for six months, but Ms T was still unable to bring the account back 
within the overdraft limit.
Ms T is very upset RBS didnt have notes to say she was vulnerable. Ms T says she spoke 
to several people at RBS and told them she was vulnerable, but RBS says it didnt know.
Ive looked at RBS notes, and I cant see it had recorded Ms Ts vulnerabilities. And 
although this must be frustrating for Ms T, I dont believe this meant RBS treated her unfairly 
when it defaulted her account.
In the specific circumstances of Ms Ts complaint, I dont believe RBS would have tried to 
contact Ms T a different way even if it had a record of her vulnerabilities. RBS has an 
obligation to contact Ms T about an impending default and I believe it did this.
And, even if RBS had a record of Ms Ts vulnerabilities, I still dont think it would have sent 
the default notices by signed for post. In the specific circumstances of Ms Ts complaint, I 
dont believe RBS would have done anything different had it recorded her vulnerabilities.
Ms T sent in information to RBS about disability discrimination and debt. This information 
mentioned the Equality Act 2010 (Act), so Ive thought about what that means for my decision.
Its not my role to say whether RBS has breached the Act. This is because thats a matter for 
the courts to decide, not our service. Ive taken the Act into account when deciding this 
complaint, given that its relevant law, but I have to decide whether RBS treated Ms T fairly 
in all the circumstances of her complaint.
And, having done this, I think RBS was fair in defaulting Ms Ts account but unfair in 
delaying this. I also dont think RBS treated Ms T fairly in responding to her request for 
default notices.
I think RBS made some mistakes, and needs to take steps to resolve Ms Ts complaint. But I 
dont believe the errors mean RBS should write off Ms Ts debt.
My final decision
My final decision is RBS should:
backdate the default on Ms Ts account to July 2019
refund all interest and charges after this date
if this refund repays Ms Ts debt, then RBS should pay 8% simple interest on any 
credit balance due to Ms T from the date this credit balance arose to the date of 
settlement
think very carefully about whether selling Ms Ts debt in the future would lead to a fair 
outcome for her, considering her vulnerabilities
pay £100 to compensate Ms T for the poor service she experienced
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman