DRN-3909349
The complaint
E complains about the time it took for Aviva Insurance Limited to settle a claim on its 
commercial vehicle insurance policy.
Reference to Aviva includes its agents.
What happened
E holds a commercial vehicle insurance policy with Aviva. When one of its employees 
accidently put AdBlue into the fuel tank of one of its vans, it made a claim for the damage. 
Aviva ultimately accepted and settled the claim. But E thinks this took too long.
E complained to Aviva about the time taken to settle the claim. It said while the claim was 
being settled it was reduced to only operating with one van, and as a result says it lost 
income and profit  to the tune of roughly £95,000.
Aviva acknowledged some delay  just over a month. But it said Es broker was responsible 
for the remainder  roughly another two months. It said E had chosen to use the repairer it 
did, and as this wasnt one of Avivas nominated repairers, no courtesy or hire vehicle 
needed to be provided in line with the policys terms and conditions. Aviva offered £175 
compensation in acknowledgement of the delays it says it was responsible for.
E didnt accept Avivas response so brought its complaint to us. One of our investigators 
recommended it be upheld. He didnt think E had insisted on using the repairer they did. And 
he didnt think Aviva had made it clear to E what its options were in terms of using a different 
repairer.
He thought Aviva was ultimately responsible for all the delay. He said while he appreciated 
the time without the van would have inconvenienced E, he didnt think it had evidenced its 
losses. He recommended Aviva pay E a total of £500 compensation.
Neither E nor Aviva agreed, so, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
I dont find that E insisted on using its own repairer. Ive not seen enough evidence to 
show E was made aware of its options in terms of moving the car and the benefits of 
doing so. Had Aviva done so, I think its likely E would have moved the van because 
it was clear it wanted as little time as possible without it.
A delay on settling this claim is widely acknowledged and not really in dispute. 
Whats in dispute is who is responsible for that delay. Aviva says most of the delay is 
caused by the broker. And from what I can see much of this delay centres around 
whether the broker had pre - agreed authorisation to approve the claim with the 
repairer. It seems Aviva thought the broker had this authority (or that it had given it to 
it), but the broker was waiting for Aviva. And here, it seems up to a limit, Aviva 
delegated authority to the broker.  This pre-agreed authority indicates the broker was 
acting as Avivas agent in dealing with this claim. But Aviva is still the party 
responsible.
Therefore, based on the above two points, on balance, Im persuaded that Aviva is 
responsible for the all the delay.
E says the impact of the delay is that it was working at half capacity  because it only 
had use of one van instead of the two it normally would. Its said this cost it roughly 
£95,000. But Im not satisfied its been able to evidence this. Whats more, I think 
although E would have been provided hire (or a courtesy vehicle) had he used 
Avivas repairer, E also had to mitigate its losses. Not hiring a van itself, and working 
at half capacity was ultimately its choice, and Im not holding Aviva fully responsible 
for that.
That said, the total delay and lack of clarity over Es options would have caused 
inconvenience to it. And for that, Aviva should compensate it £500. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. To put things right, Aviva Insurance 
Limited needs to:
Pay E a total of £500 compensation for the inconvenience caused throughout this 
claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman