DRN-3654798
The complaint
W complains about end of contract charges when a hire agreement with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Volvo Car Financial Services ended.
What happened
In 2018 W was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with Santander. At the 
end of the agreement, the car was inspected. Santander later asked W to pay charges for 
damage.
W disputed the charges and said it had returned the car in immaculate condition for its age 
and mileage. In response, Santander said the charges had been raised correctly.
W remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He reviewed the inspection report and said the 
charges for the left front wheel, right front wheel and right rear wheel had been unfairly 
applied. The investigator also said the charges for the valet and the rear right door were 
unfair.
W didnt agree. It said the car had been supplied without a parcel shelf, so there was no 
shelf to return. It said the dent in the door was within fair wear and tear. It acknowledged that 
there had been a delay in having the third service carried out but said this was due to illness 
of the mechanic. W said the scuffs on the rear light could easily be polished out and the 
corrosion was so small that it was unnoticeable.
Santander said it accepted the investigators view and agreed to reduce the invoice by £390, 
leaving £918.15 to pay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that W must return the car in good condition 
and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear. 
Ive looked at the inspection report. Having done so, and having had regard to the relevant 
guidelines, Im in agreement with the investigator  as to which charges are fair and which 
arent fair. 
Ive taken account of what Mr C has said about the charges and Ill explain why I think the 
charges have been fairly applied for those items which remain in dispute. 
 Parcel shelf
The inspection report found that the parcel shelf was missing when the car was returned. 
The BVLRA guidelines state that all items supplied with the car must be present when the 
car is returned. Mr C doesnt dispute that the parcel shelf wasnt present but says it was 
never supplied. Ive thought about this. The car was supplied new so Id expect the parcel 
shelf to be present. And if it wasnt (as W says) then I would have expected W to have 
mentioned this at the time the car was supplied. I havent seen anything to suggest that it did 
this. On balance, there isnt enough evidence for me to safely conclude that the parcel shelf 
wasnt present at the point of supply. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the 
charge for the missing parcel shelf has been applied fairly.
Incomplete service history
Ive reviewed the service history and I can see that the third service was due on 30 
September 2021 or at 54,000 miles. The third service was completed on 5 January 2022 at 
63,168 miles. On any analysis, the service wasnt completed when it shouldve been. The 
BVLRA guidelines state that the car must be serviced in line with the manufacturers 
schedule. W has said that his mechanic was unwell which caused the delay. However, I 
cant say that W was obliged to use a particular mechanic and I think its very likely that there 
would have been other mechanics available to service the car on time. Because of this, Im 
unable to say that the charge has been applied unfairly.
Dent in door
The BVLRA guidelines say that dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable. Ive 
looked at the photos which include a measuring tool. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
that the dent is more than 15mm and that the charge has been applied fairly.
Scuffed lamp
The BVLRA guidelines state that scuffs of 25mm or less are acceptable. Ive looked at the 
photos. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the scuff is greater than 25mm and that 
the charge has been applied fairly.
Corrosion
The BVLRA guidelines state that there should be no corrosion on any painted area. Ive 
looked at the photos and Im satisfied that there is an area of corrosion to the roof. Im 
satisfied that the charge has been applied fairly.
For the reasons Ive given, Im in agreement with the investigator as to which items have 
been charged fairly and which items havent been charged fairly.
Putting things right
To put things right Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should remove the following charges 
totalling £390:
Left front alloy
Right front alloy
Right rear alloy
ValetCorrosion rear door
The remainder of the charges have been fairly applied and are payable by W.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Santander Consumer UK Plc must take the 
steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman