DRN-3151598
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Black 
Horse Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr T was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse. He paid a deposit of £1,350 and the agreement was for £1,945 over 36 
months; with monthly repayments of £63.12. At the time, the car was around seven years 
old, and had done 47,326 miles.
The car developed a fault in June 2021 and needed a new timing chain. Which cost Mr T 
£521.40. He complained to Black Horse, as he believed the fault was a known issue with this 
type of car. But Black Horse didnt think the fault was present when the car was supplied to 
Mr T. So, they didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr T wasnt happy with Black Horses response, and he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said, from the evidence shed seen, there was nothing to show that the 
issue with the timing chain was present when the car was supplied to Mr T. She also said 
that the expected lifespan of a timing chain was 60,000 to 105,000 miles, and around seven 
to ten years. Given this, she thought this was a wear and tear issue. And she didnt think 
Black Horse needed to do anything more.
Mr T didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt think shed reached a fair outcome, and he 
thought it was reasonable for him to expect that the car last for at least the length of the 
finance agreement. So, hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr T was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Black 
Horse are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Black Horse can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, its for Mr T to show that it was present when the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr T took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Black Horse to put this right.
It's not disputed that there was a problem with the timing chain on the car. And, in August 
2021, Mr T had this replaced at the cost of £521.42. At the time of the repair, the car was 
just over eight and a half years old and had done 62,726 miles.
Ive seen the invoice for the repair, and this doesnt say when the fault first occurred, or first 
started developing. And Ive seen nothing else, for example a report from an independent 
engineer, that says when the fault first occurred or started to develop. So, under the CRA, 
Mr T hasnt been able to evidence that the fault was present when the car was supplied.
Parts such as the timing chain are whats known as wear and tear items  they degrade with 
both time and usage, and they arent expected to last the lifetime of the car. As the 
investigator said, according to manufacturer guidance, the timing chain on Mr Ts car would 
be expected to last between 60,000 and 105,000 miles; and between seven and ten years. 
And the timing chain needed replacing within both the mileage and time windows expected 
by the manufacturer.
Whats more, if the fault was present at point of supply, I wouldve expected this to have 
manifested itself sooner than 20-months and 15,400 miles. So, while I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr T, Im satisfied its more likely than not that the fault with the 
timing chain was as a result of wear and tear, and the fault wasnt present when the car was 
supplied to him.
It's for these reasons I wont be asking Black Horse to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about Black Horse Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman