DRN-2642815
The complaint
Mr B complains that Soteria Insurance Limited, (Soteria) voided his motor insurance policy 
and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr B took out his motor insurance policy with Soteria through a price comparison website in 
August 2017 and renewed this in August 2018. When his car was stolen in August 2019, Mr 
B attempted to make a claim under the policy. He was told that his policy was void from the 
outset due to not declaring information. 
Soteria said that, following a claim registered after Mr Bs vehicle was stolen, it came to light 
that Mr B was not the registered keeper of the vehicle. When the policy was taken out, Mr B 
declared himself as the registered keeper, which was incorrect as it was his father-in-law 
whose name was on the V5 certificate. It considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation and in September 2019 his insurance policy was declared as void from its 
renewal in August 2018 and premiums refunded from that point. 
It also came to light following the claim that Mr B had failed to declare a motoring conviction 
from August 2018 (an SP50 with 3 penalty points) and that there was concern over the fact 
that the vehicle was a South African import. Mr B had disclosed the vehicle as a UK Spec 
European Import when the policy was taken out. Soteria said that, whilst there was some 
confusion in relation to this and whether it was disclosed, this wouldnt matter as Mr B had 
incorrectly disclosed himself as the registered keeper so the policy wouldnt have been 
offered in any event.
Mr B says that he didnt attempt to omit information or provide false information and says 
that he has been transparent in providing the information. He says that he confirmed that 
Parent was the owner of the vehicle in the online fact find on the price comparison website, 
which was as per the V5 certificate. He also confirmed that he was the user and keeper of 
the vehicle. Mr B says that he checked the legal definitions when completing the questions 
which confirmed that the registered keeper was not the same as the registered owner.
In relation to the vehicle being an import, Mr B says that he confirmed it was an import in the 
online fact find on the price comparison website. There were three options available: US 
import, Japanese import or UK spec European import. As the vehicle was built to UK 
specifications and had undergone registration and MOT in the UK, the latter was the most 
appropriate. Mr B says that the car was registered in the UK in 2016 but is a 2011 model 
which is evident from the V5 which could have been checked by the insurer.
In relation to the traffic violation, Mr B say that this occurred shortly after the insurance start 
date and that it was an oversight for not contacting the insurer to inform it of this. 
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. 
Although it was accepted that there was no bad intent on the part of Mr B, the registered 
keeper of the vehicle shown on the V5 was not Mr B and, had Soteria known that the 
registered keeper of the vehicle was Mr Bs father in law at the outset, it wouldnt have 
provided cover. So the investigator agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation but 
didnt think this was deliberate or reckless and agreed with Soteria that it was careless.  He 
agreed that Soteria was entitled to void Mr Bs policy and decline his claim but that it should 
refund the premium hed paid from renewal, which it had done. In his view, our investigator 
also noted that Soteria had now confirmed that the import status of the vehicle wouldnt have 
voided the policy and would have been accepted under the underwriting criteria.
Mr B disagrees with the investigator and the case has therefore come to me to make a 
decision. He says that he was transparent in his application, didnt intentionally give incorrect 
information and provided information about his father in law being the owner. He said that he 
reasonably misinterpreted what the price comparison site required for the definition of 
registered keeper, which is different to the legal definition which he has set out as being the 
Registered Keeper is different to the owner of a vehicle. The person who is responsible for 
the vehicle in terms of official communications from the police and the DVLA is known as the 
registered keeper, but the owner is the person who has paid for the car or was given it as a 
present. Mr B says that the insurer informed him that it would not have insured the car as it 
was an import from South Africa but now says that the import issue is fine, so keeps 
changing its parameters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Soteria thinks Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
declared that he was the registered keeper of the vehicle.
Ive looked at the information from the price comparison website. The question asked on the 
online form was Are you (or will you be) the registered keeper of this car? Mr B has 
selected yes. There is an information box next to this question setting out that The 
registered keeper is the person whose name appears in the cars log book (V5 registration 
document). The owner of the car and the registered keeper can be different people.
In response to the question Are you (or will you be) the legal owner of the car? Mr B has 
selected no and then selected Parent from a dropdown list. The information box next to 
this question says We need to know whether the car belongs to you. If you dont own the car 
but youre the registered keeper, you should answer No (the owner of the car and the 
registered keeper can be different people). 
In this case the V5 certificate shows that Mr Bs father in law is the registered keeper so 
when Mr B declared himself as the registered keeper this was incorrect. Ive considered what Mr B has said in relation to reasonably misinterpreting what the price comparison 
website required for the definition of registered keeper and the fact that he did declare that 
his father in law was the owner of the vehicle. The information box next to the question 
clearly sets out that the registered keeper means the person who is named on the V5. I 
appreciate that Mr B was the main user of the car and that he may have paid for the day to 
day running of the vehicle. But this alone would not make him the registered keeper, as this 
would be the person who is registered as the keeper. The only document which shows who 
is registered as the keeper is the V5 and this is the person to whom official communications 
are sent about the vehicle. I agree that the owner and the registered keeper can be different 
people, but Mr B was neither the owner nor the registered keeper of the vehicle in this case. 
So Im satisfied that Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he said he was the registered keeper.
I now have to go on to consider whether Mr Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying 
misrepresentation, namely whether it would have made a difference to what Soteria would 
have done had it known the correct information.
Soteria has provided a copy of its underwriting rules from the time the policy was taken out. 
This shows that if Mr B had said that the registered keeper was a parent, it would never have 
offered him cover. The policy would only have been accepted if the registered keeper was 
the policyholder, a spouse or a civil partner. This means that Im satisfied that Mr Bs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Soteria has classed the misrepresentation was careless (as opposed to being deliberate or 
reckless). I can see that Mr B did say that his father in law was the owner of the vehicle and, 
as a careless misrepresentation is the most favourable outcome for Mr B, I am satisfied that 
this is fair. So I agree that it was reasonable of Soteria to conclude that Mr Bs 
misrepresentation was careless.  
As Im satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Soteria can take in accordance with CIDRA. As it would not have offered cover but 
for the misrepresentation, Im satisfied that it was entitled to avoid Mr Bs policy in 
accordance with CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, 
Soteria does not have to deal with his claim following the theft of his vehicle. 
Whilst there were also the issues in relation to Mr Bs vehicle being a South African import 
and his motoring conviction from August 2018, I havent looked into whether these would 
have been qualifying misrepresentations in any detail. This is because it would not affect the 
outcome of the complaint given that the policy was voided on the basis of the registered 
keeper for the reasons set out above. However, for clarification, Soteria has said that the 
selection made on the price comparison website in relation to the car being an import was 
probably the best fit so its underwriter may have allowed the policy to continue had this been 
the only issue. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr B, but I can't fairly say that Soteria 
has acted unreasonably in the circumstances of this case and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman