complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 2004 with a 
store card. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So to keep 
things simple in my decision Ill just say AXA when Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA. 
Mrs W says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The policy cost was £1.50 per £100 Mrs W owed on her store card. The policy would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs W couldnt work 
because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided life cover 
as well as price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case. 
I am upholding Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain the reasons why Ive reached this conclusion.
This policy was taken out by completing an application form in a store. Both parties agree 
that no advice was given and the policy wasnt recommended to Mrs W. Based on what I 
know about their sales practices, I think its more likely that AXA didnt give advice to Mrs W 
during the sale. So it didnt have to check that the policy was right for Mrs W but it did need 
to give her clear enough information to enable her to decide for herself if this cover was right 
for her.
As this policy was taken out in store, I dont know what was said to Mr S. So I havent any 
evidence to show that Mrs W was given clear information about the cost of the policy, in real 
terms. Its possible AXA may have explained the amount she would pay for each pound she 
spent on the card, but I dont know if it explained that interest would be charged on those 
premiums if there was an outstanding balance or that she would need to keep paying the 
premiums during a claim. So I dont think its likely Mrs W would have been made aware of 
the true cost of the policy in real terms.
DRN-1629481I think this would have mattered to Mrs W as she has told us that she would have received 
sick pay for up to six months if she was too ill to work. And Mrs W also told us that she had 
savings that equated to over seven months of her pay. I am aware that the benefit of the 
policy was relatively high. But so was the cost. And given what Mrs W has told us about her 
circumstances, I dont think that Mrs W would have thought the policy was value for money if 
she had fully understood the costs.
AXA questions the size of Mrs Ws sick pay arrangements and the scope and nature of Mrs 
Ws savings. But AXA has presented no evidence to support its doubts about either the sick 
pay or the savings. And Mrs W explained to AXA she had savings and what she did for a 
living when she brought her complaint to AXA. And Ive seen no evidence of any searching 
enquiry into the nature of these things at the time that AXA investigated the case before 
issuing its final response to Mrs W. When asked by us, Mrs W offered some detail about the 
sick pay she thinks she had. Beyond this, Mrs W has been consistent in her testimony. 
So, in thinking about this matter, I have also thought about how long ago the sale was (over 
15 years ago), and the difficulty that Mrs W would most likely have faced in providing 
evidence in support of her testimony. So, considering all of this, in my opinion, I have seen 
insufficient evidence to undermine the accuracy of the testimony supplied to both AXA and 
us by Mrs W. 
So, overall, based on what Ive seen and been told, I dont think AXA gave clear enough 
information to Mrs W to enable her to decide if the policy was right for her. And, if it had, I 
dont think she would have taken the policy out as I dont think she would have considered it 
value for money. So I think Mrs W has lost out as a result of what AXA did wrong.
putting things right
AXA should put Mrs W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs W would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs W owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs W would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs W would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs W 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs W would 
have owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D. AXA should tell Mrs W what its done to work out A, B and C. HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint against AXA France IARD and 
require them to pay Mrs W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman