DRN-4358412
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to quickly correct inaccurate information it 
had recorded on his credit file, affecting his ability to take out further credit and causing him 
a significant financial loss.
What happened
Mr W took out a loan with HSBC in 2019.  When the COVID pandemic affected his ability to 
make payments he contacted HSBC who agreed to offer him a period of breathing space 
where he would not need to make payments. This was initially recorded on his credit file, but 
the government subsequently issued guidance that this kind of payment arrangement should 
not affect a customers credit file, and so HSBC should have removed the information about 
the payment arrangement. 
In early 2021 Mr W discovered that the breathing pace was still showing on his credit file as 
missed payments, so he contacted HSBC to ask it to put things right. HSBC agreed that Mr 
Ws credit file needed to be corrected, and said it would do so, it also paid him £400 for any 
distress and inconvenience caused at that stage.
In May 2022 Mr W applied to re-mortgage some properties he owned. His application was 
declined due to adverse information on his credit file, and on investigating further Mr W 
discovered that two of the credit reference agencies still held adverse information relating to 
his HSBC loan. Mr W contacted HSBC on 27 May 2022 to raise this. HSBC did then correct 
this adverse information. But Mr W says by that stage he had missed out on more favourable 
terms for his re-mortgage. He says this will cost him over £11,000 over the course of the 
mortgage, and he would like HSBC to compensate him for that.
HSBC looked into Mr Ws concerns, and offered him a further £200 compensation, but did 
not feel it could be held responsible for the loss Mr W was claiming. Mr W was unhappy with 
HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but while they agreed that HSBC 
could have been clearer about the potential impact of the breathing space on Mr Ws credit 
file, and that HSBC did not correct the credit file when it should have done, they did not feel 
it was fair to ask HSBC to cover Mr Ws claimed loss, they considered that the £200 offered 
by HSBC was fair.
Mr W disagreed, so as no agreement could be reached this complaint was passed to me for 
review. I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 24 August 2023, explaining 
why I considered the offer of £200 that HSBC had made was a fair resolution to this 
complaint.
HSBC has confirmed it has no further comments to make on my findings. Mr W has 
responded to my provisional decision reiterating that he does not feel the compensation 
offered is adequate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
When Mr W first agreed the breathing space with HSBC in early 2020, the government 
hadnt yet issued any guidance regarding payment holidays or how such arrangements 
should be reported to the credit reference agencies. So I dont think it was unreasonable for 
HSBC to record it as an arrangement to pay or to note the missed payments on Mr Ws 
credit file at that stage. HSBC did tell Mr W at the time that the plan could affect his credit 
file, I do though agree with our investigator that the conversation Mr W had with HSBC about 
this could have been better handled. I dont think it was necessarily made as clear as it could 
have been to Mr W exactly what the potential impact on his credit file would be.
However, in April 2020 the government had issued guidance that COVID related payment 
holidays should not impact customers credit files. So at that stage Mr Ws credit file should 
have been corrected to remove any reference to the payment plan and any missed 
payments should have been absorbed into the loan term, and therefore no longer showing 
as arrears. HSBCs records show that it did send an update to the credit reference agencies 
in July 2020, asking for adverse information from April 2020 to July 2020 to be removed. 
But it appears something then went wrong here, as in February 2021 Mr Ws credit file was 
still showing adverse information. From looking at HSBCs records, it appears that the 
arrears were not absorbed into the loan, and so continued to show as missed payments. 
When Mr W contacted HSBC in February 2021, it took steps to correct his credit file, HSBCs 
records show that it sent updates to the credit reference agencies asking for the missed 
payments to be removed for the period April 2020 to February 2021. Mr Ws loan was also 
reconfigured at that time so that the missed payments were absorbed into the overall 
balance and no longer classed as arrears. This process did though take a while, and HSBC 
paid Mr W £400 compensation for the impact on his credit file and for the delay in sorting it 
out.
Unfortunately, Mr Ws credit file was still showing adverse information after this point. I do 
though note that the three credit reference agencies appear to have all had different 
information recorded for him. One agency showed no adverse data, one showed the 
arrangement to pay in 2020, and one showed one month of arrears in February 2021. Its not 
clear to me exactly why the three agencies showed different information, or why the update 
HSBC sent in February 2021 did not correct the issue with Mr Ws credit file. Mr W has said 
the main issue was the arrears recorded in February 2021, and it seems likely that this 
month was missed as HSBC updated the credit file in February 2021, so data for that month 
may not yet have been recorded with the credit reference agencies. HSBC sent an update to 
the credit reference agencies on 7 June 2022 to correct this information.
What I need to decide now is whether this inaccurate record means that HSBC is 
responsible for the loss Mr W is claiming. But having thought carefully about what has 
happened here I dont agree that it would be fair to ask HSBC to reimburse Mr W for his 
claimed losses.  
I appreciate the evidence Mr W has sent us, supporting that this adverse information was the 
reason why his original mortgage application was rejected. I understand that when Mr W 
then reapplied once his credit file had been corrected the mortgage he was offered was on less favourable terms. I dont though think it is fair to say that HSBC is responsible for 
bearing the financial impact of this. 
Mr W was aware that HSBC had previously failed to update his credit file. But he doesnt 
appear to have checked that it was corrected after he raised the issue initially in February 
2021. HSBC of course has a responsibility to record accurate information, but I think its also 
fair to say that Mr W had a responsibility to keep an eye on the information recorded and let 
HSBC know of any issues so it can put things right. And when HSBC was told of the issue 
on 27 May 2022 it sent an update with the correct information within a reasonable amount of 
time, around 7 working days later. Ive got no reason to think that HSBC wouldnt have 
updated Mr Ws file just as quickly if it had been told of the issue earlier. 
I also note that only one of the credit reference agencies appears to have had the adverse 
information that caused the problem, its not clear however whether Mr W attempted to 
appeal the lenders decision  based on the fact that only one agency showed the offending 
missed payment  which could again have limited or prevented the loss he is claiming here.
With all this I mind, I dont think I can reasonably say that it would be fair to ask HSBC to 
cover the loss Mr W is claiming. So I consider that the £200 compensation HSBC has 
already offered to Mr W  on top of the £400 it has already paid to him  is reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has commented that he does not feel the amount offered goes far enough to fine 
HSBC, he doesnt think this amount will make HSBC take action and change their ways. 
But its important to note that it isnt the role of this service to fine businesses for their 
mistakes or standard of service. This service isnt intended to regulate or punish businesses 
for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead, this service 
looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and business. Should we decide 
that something has gone wrong we can recommend that the business pay the consumer 
compensation for the personal impact on them, but this isnt the same as a fine.
Ive also noted Mr Ws comments that, given HSBC is a large international banking 
institution, it should not be his responsibility to ensure they have recorded accurate 
information about his accounts. But while I can appreciate his point of view here, all 
businesses  no matter how large  will occasionally make mistakes, but they cant fix those 
mistakes unless they know that something has gone wrong. And I dont think it is 
unreasonable to expect a consumer to keep an eye on the financial information that is 
important to them at any particular time. 
I agree that HSBC made errors here, but Im also satisfied that it put those errors right 
quickly. I can see from Mr Ws emails with HSBC that he did not see any update on his credit 
file until later in June 2022, but I can also see from HSBCs records that it sent the update to 
the credit reference agencies on 7 June 2022, and this is supported by evidence weve 
received from one of the credit reference agencies. I consider that to be a reasonably quick 
response by HSBC on being told that adverse information was still being recorded.
I appreciate Mr W confirming that he did appeal the lenders decision to not offer him a 
mortgage based on the inconsistent information about his HSBC account that was showing 
across the three credit reference agencies. Mr W says this appeal made no difference, and 
that the lender confirmed they would not agree to offer him a mortgage unless the adverse 
information was removed. I dont doubt this is the case based on what Mr W has said, but 
having thought carefully about this I still dont consider that it would be fair to say that HSBC 
should cover the loss that Mr W is claiming. I appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr W, but I remain satisfied that the total 
compensation of £600  £400 which has already been paid and £200 which is currently on 
the table  is reasonable compensation for what has happened here. Inaccurate information 
was recorded on Mr Ws credit file, but HSBC put that right within a reasonable timeframe. 
And as I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think I can fairly say that the loss Mr W 
is claiming here can be solely regarded as being down to HSBCs actions.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint HSBC should pay Mr W £200.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman