DRN-2220325
The complaint
 Mrs M (via the way of a representative) complains Oakam Ltd (Oakam) irresponsibly
provided her with a number of instalment loans. She says Oakam didnt carry out sufficient
checks.
What happened
 Our adjudicator thought Mrs Ms complaint should be partially upheld. Oakam disagreed. 
The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining why Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld in part. 
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form 
part of this final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision:
Oakam investigated Mrs Ms complaint and issued its final response letter in February 2020.
It didnt uphold her complaint and said it carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to 
all of the loans.
A table of Mrs Ms lending based on the information given to us by Oakham can be found
below.
loan 
numberloan 
amount*received dateactual 
repayment 
dateterm 
(months)repayment 
frequency
1 £565.00 01/02/2013 24/12/2013 12 weekly
2 £654.34 24/12/2013 12/09/2014 12 weekly
3 £957.96 12/09/2014 27/05/2015 18 weekly
4 £1,105.28 27/05/2015 23/10/2015 18 weekly
5 £1,207.02 23/10/2015 27/04/2017 18 weekly
6 £2,000.00 11/01/2018 17/01/2020 24 weekly
*taken from the loan agreement.
Loans 2 - 5 were refinanced loans. This meant some of the loan amount went towards
repaying the previous loan. For example, Mrs M received £300 new money when she
applied for loan 5. With the remaining amount lent being used to repay the outstanding
balance on loan 4.
An adjudicator reviewed Mrs Ms complaint. She didnt think Oakam had made an error
when it approved the first three loans. But she did think Oakam had made a mistake in
providing loans 4 - 6 because Mrs Ms overall pattern of borrowing led the adjudicator to
conclude that these loans were unstainable.
Mrs M appears to have accepted the adjudicators view.
Oakam didnt agree with the adjudicators view. In response it sent a detailed document
outlining its concerns. But in summary it said;
The reasons why the adjudicator upheld the loans doesnt appear to be related to the 
checks that Oakam carried out for each loan.
Mrs M could afford the repayments out of her disposable income  based on 
proportionate and detailed checks Oakam carried out.
Mrs M could only refinance her loans due to her positive repayment record and she 
also showed no signs of being in financial difficulties.
Oakam normally offer smaller loans over a short term and as long as the repayment 
record is satisfactory a consumer can be moved towards larger loans over a longer 
period of time.
Mrs Ms final loan, due to the amount and the term, cannot be considered to be a 
short-term loan.
Mrs M only had 6 late payments while she borrowed from Oakam, but payments 
were made weekly, so these were quickly rectified.
Oakam considers there to be a significant break in lending between loans 5 and 6.
Oakam provided Mrs M with sufficient information before each loan as granted which 
outlined the costs of the credit as well as how each loan was structured.
Oakam says that Mrs M had the benefit of the funds and Oakam wants to know what 
impact, there would have been on Mrs M had it not granted this lending. For example, 
Oakam says that loan 4 was provided so Mrs M could visit a sick relative.
The adjudicator considered what Oakam had said, but its comments didnt change his mind
about which loans should be upheld.
As no agreement could be reached the case has now been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice as well as our approach to dealing
with similar cases which can be found on our website.
And having done so, Im intending to conclude that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld in
part.
Oakam initially raised an objection to this service considering the first two loans, because in
its view Mrs M made her complaint too late. But, Oakam has received an assessment on this
matter and has since commented on the outcome that was reached by the latest adjudicator.
So, I no longer intend to revisit whether Mrs M made her complaint on time.
Firstly, I will address the regulations in place at the time these loans were provided;
the legal and regulatory framework regulation by the Office of Fair Trading (up to 31 March
2014)  loans 1 and 2.
Up to the end of March 2014 Oakham was subject to the OFT. During this time it needed 
a standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), in order to carry out consumer 
credit activities.Section 25(2) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 set out the factors the OFT had to 
consider when deciding whether to grant a consumer credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1) In determining whether an applicant for a licence is a fit person for the purposes of 
this section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be relevant 
including (amongst other things)
(a) the applicant's skills, knowledge and experience in relation to consumer 
credit businesses, consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit businesses;
(b) such skills, knowledge and experience of other persons who the applicant 
proposes will participate in any business that would be carried on by him under 
the licence;
(c)practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement in 
connection with any such business;
(d)evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence is evidence tending to show that the applicant, or any of the applicant's 
employees, agents or associates (whether past or present) or, where the applicant is a 
body corporate, any person appearing to the OFT to be a controller of the body corporate 
or an associate of any such person, has
(a) committed any offence involving fraud or other dishonesty or violence; (b) 
contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 so far as it relates to 
the consumer credit jurisdiction under that Part;
(iii) any other enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals 
or other transactions with individuals;
(c) contravened any provision in force in an EEA State which corresponds to a provision 
of the kind mentioned in paragraph (b);
(d) practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or national origins in, 
or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; or
(e) engaged in business practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful or oppressive 
or otherwise unfair or improper (whether unlawful or not) [my emphasis].
Section 25(2B) set out a direct example of the type of practice referred to in Section 
25(2A(e)) and said: For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which 
the OFT may consider to be deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper include 
practices in the carrying on of a consumer credit business that appear to the OFT to involve 
irresponsible lending [my emphasis].
In March 2010, as required by s.25A, the OFT produced guidance on the test for 
irresponsible lending for the purposes of section 25(2B) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
and so it issued its guidance on irresponsible lending (ILG).
So I consider the ILG to be of central importance in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome
in Mrs Ms case. The foreword to the guidance set out its purpose and it said:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businessesand consumer representatives as to the business practices that the OFT considers may
constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes of section 25(2B) of the Consumer
Credit Act 1974. It indicates types of deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper
business practices which, if engaged in by a consumer credit business, could call into
consideration its fitness to hold a consumer credit licence.
Whilst this guidance represents the OFT's view on irresponsible lending, it is not meant to
represent an exhaustive list of behaviours and practices which might constitute irresponsible
lending.
Section two of the guidance sets out the general principles of fair business practice. Section
2.1 says:
In the OFT's view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer protection and
fair business practice which apply to all consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance 
In general terms, creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when advertising, selling, or seeking 
to enforce a credit agreement
make a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford to 
meet repayments in a sustainable manner
explain the key features of the credit agreement to enable the borrower to make 
an informed choice
monitor the borrower's repayment record during the course of the agreement, 
offering assistance where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty and 
treat borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations of lenders. Amongst other things, it says: In addition 
to the above there should be:
fair treatment of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted with credit products 
that are clearly unsuitable for them, subjected to high pressure selling, aggressive 
or oppressive behaviour or inappropriate coercion, or conduct which is deceitful, 
oppressive, unfair or improper, whether unlawful or not
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable by virtue of their current 
indebtedness, poor credit history, or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for 
any other reason, should, in particular, not be targeted or exploited.
Section four of the guidance is concerned with the assessment of affordability that lenders
were required to carry out before granting credit. Section 4.1 says:
In the OFT's view, all assessments of affordability should involve a consideration of the
potential for the credit commitment to adversely impact on the borrower's financial situation,
taking account of information that the creditor is aware of at the time the credit is granted.
The extent and scope of any assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance,
should be dependent upon  and proportionate to  a number of factors (see paragraph 4.10
of this guidance document).
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test' whichinvolves a creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake a specific credit commitment,
or specific additional credit commitment, in a sustainable manner, without the borrower
incurring (further) financial difficulties and/or experiencing adverse consequences.
Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says:
Whatever means and sources of information creditors employ as part of an assessment of
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
We consider that before granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or
significantly increasing the credit limit under an agreement for running account credit,
creditors should take reasonable steps to assess a borrower's likely ability to be able to meet
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance. And Section 4.3
says:
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit that can 
be repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing 
problem indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within 
a reasonable period of time
out of income and/or available savings, without having to realise security or assets.
Section 4.4 goes on to describe undue difficulty and says:
The OFT would regard 'without undue difficulty' in this context as meaning the borrower 
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances 
that were not reasonably foreseeable at the time the credit was granted):
while also meeting other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable 
outgoings and
without having to borrow further to meet these repayments.
Building on the proportionality principle set out in section 4.1, section 4.10 deals with the 
issues that might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It 
includes factors such as:
the type of credit product;
the amount of credit to be provided and the associated cost and risk to the borrower;
the borrowers financial situation at the time the credit is sought;
the borrowers credit history, including any indications of the borrower 
experiencing (or having experienced) financial difficulty
the vulnerability of the borrower
Section 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types and sources of information that a 
lender assess affordability, including:evidence of income
evidence of expenditure
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
a credit report from a credit reference agency
information obtained from the borrower through a form or a meeting
Section 4.15 concerns the verification of income and expenditure for the purposes of making 
an appropriate assessment of affordability. It states:
In our view, creditors who do not require documentary evidence of income and/or 
expenditure as part of their assessment of affordability, but rather accept information 
provided by the borrower without any supporting evidence or, in the alternative, do not 
seek any information on income and/or expenditure at all as part of their assessment, 
should ensure that whatever means and sources of information they employ are sufficient 
to make an appropriate assessment. We do not consider that self-certification of income 
would generally be sufficient in respect of significant long-term credit agreements, 
particularly those secured on property.
Section 4.16 specifically touches on the issue of proportionality in the context of short-term
credit. It says:
Whilst the OFT accepts, as a general principle from a proportionality perspective, that the
level of scrutiny required for small sum and/or short-term credit may be somewhat less than
for large sum and/or long term credit, we consider that creditors should also take account of
the fact that the risk of the credit being unsustainable would be directly related to the amount
of credit granted (and associated interest / charges etc.) relative to the borrowers financial
situation
Sections 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible lending
practices relating to how businesses assess affordability. Section 4.20 says this would
include where a lender is:
Failing to undertake a reasonable assessment of affordability in an individual case or cases
Section 4.21 gives another example:
Failing to consider sufficient information to be able to reasonably assess affordability, prior to
granting credit, significantly increasing the total amount of credit provided, or significantly
increasing the credit limit (in the case of a running account credit agreement)This could (but
not necessarily) include for example:
Where applicable, appropriate and proportionate, failing to verify details of current income
and/or expenditure by, for example, checking hard copies of payslip/contract of employment
(when a borrower is in employment), accountants letters (where a borrower is self-
employed) or benefit statements (where a borrower is not in employment).
And Section 4.26 says a business would be acting irresponsibly if:
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability assessment, it is
known, or reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders treatment of information disclosed by the
customer. 4.29 says it would be an unsatisfactory business practice where a lender: fail[s] to
take adequate steps, so far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure that information on a credit application relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete and correct.
And section 4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to:
[Accept] an application for credit under circumstances in which it is known, or reasonably
ought to be suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in completing the application
for credit with regards to the information supplied relevant to inform an assessment of
affordability
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific irresponsible lending practices relating to lender
behaviour once loan(s) have been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory
practice where a business is:
Failing to monitor a borrowers repayment record
Section 6.2 goes on to say: The OFT considers that creditors should take appropriate
actionwhen/if there are signs of apparent / possible repayment difficulties.
Section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
On 1 February 2011 the majority of the legislation implementing the provisions of the
Consumer Credit Directive 2008 came into force. At this point the ILG was amended to
reflect any changes required by the Consumer Credit Directive and an additional
requirement on a lender to carry out an Assessment of creditworthiness was set out in
section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act.
Its important to note that both section 25 and section 55 remained in force until regulation of
Consumer Credit providers passed to the FCA in April 2014. Section 55B said:
Assessment of creditworthiness
55B (1) Before making a regulated consumer credit agreement, other than an
excluded agreement, the creditor must undertake an assessment of the 
creditworthiness of the debtor.
(2)Before significantly increasing
(a)the amount of credit to be provided under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, other than an excluded agreement, or
(b)a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, other than an excluded agreement, the creditor must undertake an 
assessment of the debtors creditworthiness.
(3) A creditworthiness assessment must be based on sufficient information obtained
from
(a) the debtor, where appropriate, and
(b) a credit reference agency, where necessary.
(4) For the purposes of this section an agreement is an excluded agreement if it is
(a) an agreement secured on land, or
(b) an agreement under which a person takes an article in pawn..
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014) Oakham gave Mrs M
loans 3 - 6 after regulation of Consumer Credit Licensees had transferred from the OFT to
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2014.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised
firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, saysThe Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit 
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit
providers, such as Oakam. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible
lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a
regulated agreement.
The starting point for the relevant rules is Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC which sets out what a
lender needs to do before agreeing to give a consumer credit of this type. It says a firm must
consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to adversely
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which the firm 
is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end agreement, to 
make repayments within a reasonable period.
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for
example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer.
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking
about affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R
(1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability to repay the
credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should
include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer incurring
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4)
states:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the
customer.And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer relevant to the
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
Section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
All of Mrs Ms loans were given to her after Section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act came
into force on 6 April 2007. Section 140A sets out circumstances where the court may
determine that the relationship between a creditor and a debtor is unfair to the debtor.
Section 140A says:
140A Unfair relationships between creditors and debtors
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor
because of one or more of the following-
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights under the
agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before or after
the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and matters
relating to the debtor).
(3) For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to,
an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not done) by, or on behalf of,
or in relation to, the creditor.
(4) A determination may be made under this section in relation to a relationship
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5) An order under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit agreement
which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of Part 2 of the Regulated
Activities Order by virtue of article 60C(2) of that Order (regulated mortgage contracts and
regulated home purchase plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types of order the court could make should it determine that the
relationship between the creditor and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(2) An order under this section in connection with a credit agreement may do one or more of
the following
(a) require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay (in whole or in
part) any sum paid by the debtor or by a surety by virtue of the agreement or any related
agreement (whether paid to the creditor, the associate or the former associate or to any
other person);](b) require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or not to do (or to
cease doing) anything specified in the order in connection with the agreement or any related
agreement;
(c) reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety by virtue of the
agreement or any related agreement;
(d) direct the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the purposes of a
security;
(e) otherwise set aside (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor or on a surety by
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f) alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g) direct accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made,
between any persons.
On 6 March 2019, The FCA wrote a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer of all
firms allocated to the High Cost Lenders portfolio, which I understand Oakam to be part of.
This letter was published after Miss Ms agreements were entered into. But given that this
letter didnt include any new interpretation of the rules and deals with how firms ought to be
handling complaints about whether their previous lending was unaffordable, I do think that it
offers some insight on the FCAs perspective on the rules. So, I do consider it to be of some
relevance in this case. Indeed, this is reinforced by what the FCA says on page one;
Firms in this portfolio vary significantly in size and have a wide variety of specific business
models and products. However, customers who use high cost credit products tend to share
some key characteristics  for example, they tend to have poor credit histories and low
financial resilience. Many of them are also likely to be vulnerable. Given these
characteristics, lack of appropriate affordability checks and poor treatment of customers in
default or arrears creates a risk of considerable harm. Firms are reminded of their
obligations to treat customers fairly and appropriately. They should also ensure that they
take an appropriate approach to creditworthiness assessment and treat customers in default,
or in arrears, with forbearance and due consideration.
It then goes on to say;
While not all of the findings of our letter may apply to your firm, we have seen a number of
specific causes of harm across the firms in this portfolio. We therefore encourage you to
read and reflect on the entire letter. If we have contact with your firm in the future, we will
expect you to be able to explain what you did in response to this letter.
The letter then goes to set out the FCAs view of the key risks that High Cost Lenders pose
to consumers and the markets they operate in. On page two of this letter, the FCA sets out
its view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed
their strategies and business models. We considered a wide range of information and data,
including firms regulatory histories, the number and nature of complaints, and findings from
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing
a data request to firms in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed.High Cost Lenders portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending
patterns
firms affordability checks may be insufficient, leading to loans that customers may
not be able to afford.
The FCA sets out its areas of focus for all firms in the portfolio on page three of the letter.
The section entitled Relending says:
Relending: We have seen a high volume of relending across all credit products in the
portfolio. We aim to carry out diagnostic work across the portfolio so that we can better
understand the motivation for, and impact of, relending on both consumers and firms. This
work will examine aspects of relending such as customers borrowing journeys, firms
marketing strategies for offering additional credit and the costs of relending for consumers.
We want to understand what harm, if any, relending may cause consumers. As part of this
work, we will proactively engage with home-collected credit firms to ensure they understand
our expectations. We will also discuss any changes to their processes as a result of the new
rules and guidance on relending which we issued in our December 2018 Policy Statement
on high-cost credit.
The section entitled Affordability says:
Affordability: We recognise that there is an inherent challenge for these firms in assessing
affordability for both new loans and repeat borrowing. High-cost credit customers finances
are often squeezed and they may have poor credit histories and low financial resilience.
Nevertheless, firms must ensure that they are complying with all our affordability
requirements. We gave an outline of these requirements in the Dear CEO letter we sent to
HCSTC firms in October 2018. While this letter was aimed at HCSTC firms, the main
principles are relevant to all firms in this portfolio.
Finally, under the section entitled Complaints it says:
Complaints: We know that there have been increasing numbers of complaints about many
of the products in this portfolio. Firms should ensure that they are handling complaints
appropriately. We expect firms to fulfil all relevant obligations, including analysing the root
causes of complaints and taking into account the Financial Ombudsman Services relevant
decisions. We gave further detail about what we expect from firms complaint-handling
procedures in the Dear CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is
equally relevant to all firms in the portfolio.
Turning to the Dear CEO letter issued by the FCA on 15 October 2018, which was
mentioned in the Affordability section of the March 2019 FCA letter.
We note that the Ombudsman has recently published four examples of determinations of
individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach to the issues raised in
those complaints (see: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm).
If relevant, firms should take these examples of determinations into account as part of
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP 1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flaggedin our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014, in which we said that we were
concerned that repeat borrowing could indicate a pattern of dependency on HCSTC that is
harmful to the borrower. We noted that rigorous affordability assessments were key to
avoiding harm in this area, and firms should ensure they are making responsible 
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
Finally, Ill turn to the FCAs re-lending in High Cost Credit paper that was issued in August
2020. This is useful, because it shows the underlying concerns the FCA had about
consumers increased indebtedness. But to be clear, the FCA didnt propose any new rules
or regulations. Instead, in my view, it reinforces the regulations that were reinforce at the
time when the majority of the loans were granted.
Why we conducted this review
Our Portfolio Strategy letter issued in March 2019 set out our view of the key risks that firms
within the high-cost lenders portfolio pose to their customers or the markets they operate in.
We identified one of the key ways consumers may be harmed was by the high volume of
relending, which may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending patterns.
Firms should ensure that relending leads to positive customer outcomes and does
not cause harm
Our analysis of data provided by firms and our consumer research shows breaches of
specific rules as well as breaches of our principles for business. In this report, we set out
what we have found, our expectations and examples of what firms can do to meet these
principles.
From developments in the market, including trends in Financial Ombudsman Service
complaints and a number of high-cost short-term credit (HCSTC) firms entering
administration as a result of liabilities for complaints, we can see the consequences for firms
that fail to adequately assess affordability or relend in a way that is sustainable for their
customers.
Across the portfolio, we have seen levels of debt increasing as customers take additional
loans. We did not generally observe additional credit being used to maintain existing levels
of debt. Some customers told us they have experienced financial difficulties caused by
relending and related anxiety and stress. Many regret their additional borrowing and the
consequent financial position they find themselves in.
And
The level of debt and repayments can increase significantly, to the point where it is no
longer affordable or sustainable for some customers
We reviewed a sample of the borrowing history of around 250,000 customers to better
understand the customer journey with each firm in our sample. We saw that relending
caused both the level of debt and repayment amount to increase nearly every time further
borrowing was taken.
We remind firms of our Dear CEO letter from October 2018, sent to all HCSTC firms (but
which equally applies to other firms in the high-cost lenders portfolio). In that, we highlighted
the risks in relation to repeat borrowing given that it could indicate a pattern of dependency
on credit that is harmful to the borrower. Rigorous affordability assessments are key to
avoiding harm in this area, and firms should ensure they are making proportionate and
responsible assessments of the sustainability of borrowing. Further, firms must notencourage a customer to refinance a regulated credit agreement if the result would be the
customer's commitments are not sustainable.
We are concerned in some instances to see levels of debt and repayments increase
significantly. We saw levels of relending often double within a 2 to 3 year period.
Questions for me to consider before deciding whether Oakam did anything wrong when it
provided Mrs M with her loans.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account the relevant rules,
guidance and law, I think the overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are. When doing, and thinking about
our established approach (which can be found on our website) for investigating irresponsible
lending complaints, Ive considered three questions which are;
Did Oakam, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to
satisfy itself that Mrs M would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would
those checks have shown that Mrs M wouldve been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point
where Oakam ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Ms
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt
have provided further credit?
Did Oakam act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Oakam did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs M and that
she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what if anything it needs to do in order to
put things right.
Did Oakam, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mrs M would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
It is important to note that both the OFT and the FCA that Ive referenced above didnt, and
dont, specify exactly how an assessment of affordability is to be carried out but the extent
and scope and the types and sources of information to use needed to be enough to be
able to reasonably assess the sustainability of the arrangement for the consumer. Although,
the OFTs ILG guidance does provide some examples of information a lender may wish to
gather and use.
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of
the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the
decision to lend.
As set out in the ILG and CONC, the risk to the consumer directly relates to the particulars of
the lending and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of
creditworthiness would likely need to be adaptable to the individual needs and
circumstances of a consumer. What is sufficient for one consumer might not be for another,
or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance might not be so for
the same consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing in mind the above, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with
the circumstance of each request for credit. In general, Id expect a lender to require moreassurance, the greater the potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit
in a sustainable way.
But, certain factors might point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a
given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of credit agreements, and the longer the
period of time during which a customer has been given the credit (reflecting the risk
that ongoing use of these agreements may signal that the borrowing had become, or
was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Oakam was required to establish whether Mrs M could sustainably repay her loans  not just
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The
loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication Mrs M could sustainably
make her repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
Generally, Oakam has told this Service it carried out detailed and extensive checks before
agreeing to lend to Mrs M. It says it asked Mrs M about her income and monthly expenses. It
also said it carried out a check of her credit file. All of this, Oakam says was sufficient for
each lending decision and based on the checks it carried out it believed that Mrs M would be
in a position to afford the repayments he was committed to making.
Loans 1  3
As neither Oakam nor Mrs M appear to dispute the adjudicators findings that Oakam was
acting reasonably when it approved loans 1 - 3, I dont think there is a need for me to
consider this lending any further. So, I make no further finding about these loans in this
decision.
But what I have done, is kept in mind that these loans were provided, and considered them
in the overall context of Mrs Ms lending relationship.
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point where
Oakam ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Ms indebtedness in a way
that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further loans?
The adjudicator that considered the complaint thought the point, at which Oakam ought to
have realised it was more likely than not that these loans were unsustainable for Mrs M wasloan four.
But before I address what the adjudicator concluded, I need to consider what Oakam says
about the gap in lending of just over eight months between Mrs M repaying loan 5 and taking
out loan 6. Our adjudicator appears to have felt that the gap wasnt enough because she 
kept all the loans as part of the same chain of lending. Oakam, appear to say that this gap is
sufficient to have broken the lending relationship.
Ive thought about what Oakam says, and there are occasions where we would think a gap
of around eight months is long enough to effectively re-set the lending relationship. For
example, if a consumer had only been borrowing for a couple months. Then it would be
reasonable to think a new chain had started.
However, looking at the individual circumstances of this case, I dont think Oakam could
reasonably consider the break of eight months to be sufficient. I say this for two reasons.
Firstly, when loan 5 was repaid, Mrs M had been indebted to Oakam, continuously for a
period of over four years  which, I consider to be a significant period of time.
Secondly, when Mrs M returned for further borrowing, Oakam gave Mrs M her largest loan
and this was to be repaid and over the longest term to date. So, thinking about these factors,
like the adjudicator, I consider Mrs Ms borrowing to be part of one chain of borrowing. 
In addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to Mrs M by
Oakam, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern of lending and what
unfolded during the course of Mrs Ms lending history with Oakam. This is because, there
may come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself demonstrates that
the lending was unsustainable.
What this means, is that there are some situations, and indeed a point in the lending
relationship whereby we would consider the loan was unsustainable, even if Oakams
checks carried out showed that the loan may have been affordable.
I acknowledge that for these loans Oakam gathered information from Mrs M including details
about her income and expenditure and this information suggested to Oakam Mrs M would be
in a position to afford these loans.
But at the start of this decision Ive referenced the relevant rules and guidance that Oakam
needed to adhere too and what is clear is that Oakam had to consider more than just
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
It follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have realised, that
a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able
to make their repayments without borrowing further. I think this point was, like the
adjudicator, reached by loan 4.
So, by loan 4, Oakam ought to have realised Mrs M was not managing to repay her loans
sustainably. Mrs M had been indebted to Oakam for around 27 months, which is 
unsurprising given the term of each loan.
The, majority of the later loans were refinanced loans. What I mean by this is, that Mrs M
was granted a new loan, before the previous loans term had come to an end (as per the
credit agreement). Instead, any new loan was used to repay the balance on the previous
loan.
For example, for loan 4 while Mrs M borrowed over £1,105, she actually only receivedaround £360 of new money because the remainder of the loan went towards settling loan
three.
And I think that it ought to have been apparent to Oakam that Mrs M was unlikely to have
been using these loans as a useful means of managing income shortfalls  especially as the
loan amounts and total repayments werent decreasing in any meaningful way. Indeed, as
they were refinanced loans, Mrs M was having to borrow ever increasing amounts to settle
previous loans  and she wasnt always getting more money. For example, loan five was the
largest total loan given to date, yet she only received £300 of new money.
Mrs Ms first loan was for £565 and loan 4 was for £1,1015. So, there was a steady increase
throughout Mrs Ms borrowing relationship. And due to the way the loans worked, Mrs Ms
weekly repayment commitment had increased. Which would lead to it become more difficult
to make the repayments over time, which would in turn increase the risk of further borrowing.
At this point Oakam ought to have known that it was likely Mrs M an ongoing need for this
type of credit and was dependent on it.
In my view, Mrs M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Oakam. Loan 6
was taken out nearly five years after Mrs Ms first (including the break in lending I mentioned
above). And it was the largest loan Mrs M had taken. To me, the overall, lending
relationships suggests that Mrs M had become reliant on this type of lending.
Indeed, what is of an additional concern to me, is that by loan 5 was taken, Mrs M had been
indebted to Oakam for 32 months, had taken five loans and her weekly repayments were the
highest they have been (but not by much). So, what has effectivity happened, is that Mrs M
is refinancing loans and taken new lending, but actually isnt making headway into what she
owed Oakam. She was in effect, paying large amounts of interest to service a debt over an
extended period of time.
I think that Mrs M lost out because Oakam continued to provide borrowing from loan 4
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ms indebtedness by allowing
her to take credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mrs M borrowed along with the number of loans was
likely to have had negative implications on Mrs Ms ability to access mainstream
credit and so kept her in the market for these loans.
Ive thought about the fact that Oakam has said, given the term and the amount of the final
loan, it shouldnt be considered as a short-term loan. And I agree, with this. Clearly, the term
of the loan on its own shows that it wasnt a short-term loan. But, Oakam is part of the FCAs
high cost credit portfolio (as Ive explained in the first part of the decision). So, the rules and
regulations that Oakam had to adhere to when approving this loan are the same as for it was
say for a shorter term loan.
Ive also explained, why, I didnt think the sixth and final loan formed part of a new chain of
lending. And because of that, Ive considered the overall impact of approving the final loan,
in the context of the rest of Mrs Ms borrowing.
Other considerationsIve also considered what Oakam says about the small amount of arrears that at times
accrued on these loans. I must say given what I have said above, I dont intend to make a
further finding about these arrears, as I dont think I need to. In order to reach a fair and
reasonable outcome for the complaint.
Equally, looking at the loan agreements that Oakam has provided, I think it is fairly clear that
it provided information to Mrs M to tell her how much she was borrowing, how much and how
often her repayments were. But much like, the arrears, I dont think I need to make a finding
on this point. Because, in view, it doesnt matter whether Mrs M understood the terms she
was agreeing too because the regulations at the time, means Oakam had to carry out
effective creditworthiness assessment.
In deciding what redress Oakam should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs M from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs M may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mrs M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mrs M would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Oakams liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Did Oakam act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here that
leads me to conclude Oakam acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M in some other
way.
Did Mrs M lose out as a result of Oakams shortcomings in relation to lending from loan 4?
I think that Mrs M suffered adverse consequences as a result of Oakam unfairly giving her
loans 4 - 6. I say this because Mrs M had to pay interest and charges on agreements she
shouldnt have been provided with.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Oakam hasnt supplied any further comments or evidence that it wants me to consider. 
Mrs M accepted the provisional decision and she didnt raise any new points for me to 
consider. 
An no new evidence has been provided, Ive reached the same outcome, for the same 
reasons as I did in my provisional decision. And I still think Oakam was wrong to have 
provided Mrs M with loans 4  6. 
Ive outlined below what Oakam needs to do to out things right for Mrs M. 
Putting things right
 In deciding what redress Oakam should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs M from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between Mrs M and Oakam which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that 
was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mrs M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Oakams liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
In order to put things right for Mrs M, Oakam needs to do the following;
Oakam should refund all interest, fees and charges Mrs M paid on loan 4 - 6.
Add 8% simple interest*, calculated from the date Mrs M originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
Oakam should remove any information about these loans from Mrs Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam to deduct tax from this interest. Oakam should
give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I partly uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint.
Oakam Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman