DRN-2916970
complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a personal loan. Mr 
and Mrs S did not say how they thought PPI had been sold to them. Nationwide says it was 
sold during a face to face meeting in a branch.  
The policys one-off upfront premium of £326.92 was paid in advance by being added to the 
loan (a single premium) where it attracted interest over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 36-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan The monthly 
loan repayment was £102.36 with the PPI costing an additional £11.15 making the total 
monthly repayment £113.51. 
This was a joint loan, but the PPI was set up to cover Mr S only. From the information 
available to me, he was covered for accident, sickness, unemployment and life, subject to 
some exclusions and limitations. The policy would have covered Mr and Mrs Ss monthly 
loan repayment for up to the remaining term of the loan in the event of a successful disability 
claim and up to 12 months in the event of unemployment. 
As I said above, the policy was set up to cover Mr S only. At the time, he was employed as a 
butcher and had been in his role for nine years. I understand he wasnt entitled to any 
contractual sick pay and had no other means with which to repay the loan if wasnt able to 
work. Mrs S worked as a retail assistant. She also said she didnt have any entitlement to 
contractual sick pay and didnt have any other means to repay the loan. 
Mr and Mrs S told us that Mr S was in good health when the policy was taken out. I can see 
from some information provided by Nationwide that he had undergone an eye operation 
sometime before the cover was sold, but that he was well at the point of sale. That being so 
and from what was stated on the PPI questionnaire about Mr Ss health, I have proceeded 
with this complaint as though he did not have a medical condition at the point of sale. 
Nationwide has sent us statements to show that the loan account was closed in August 
1999. 
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ss representative says:
Nationwide failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs 
Ss representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Nationwide should 
have told Mr and Mrs S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs S 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim; and
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint
This sale took place in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code of practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded in 1999. That means the unfair relationship provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other 
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and 
these other publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of the Building Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building Societies Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman 
was required to decide complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any 
applicable rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
- If Nationwide gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them given 
their needs and circumstances. 
- Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs S, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs S 
suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
The parties are not in agreement as to how PPI came to be sold. But I can see that there is a 
branch comment sheet included in the documentation before me in which it is stated Mr and 
Mrs S were well known to the branch. It was also stated that they had been interviewed in 
respect of the borrowing. On that basis, Im satisfied they applied for both the loan and the 
PPI in a Nationwide branch. 
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. I cant know what was said 
during the meeting between the parties. Mr and Mrs S couldnt recall how the PPI was sold, 
so I dont think theyll be able to remember what they were told. So to help me decide whats 
likely to have occurred at the meeting, Ive relied on the paperwork thats available from the 
time. 
I can see from the loan agreement that the PPI is set out clearly and separately to the 
requested loan and associated repayments. That means I think Mr and Mrs S would have 
realised PPI was a separate product to their loan. The section dealing with PPI is clearly 
headed optional credit insurance. If the PPI was presented as compulsory, I think theyd 
have queried that with Nationwide at the time. The evidence doesnt suggest they did. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs S knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide advice?
The evidence before me doesnt suggest Nationwide recommended this cover to Mr and Mrs 
S after taking a detailed account of their personal circumstances. This means it didnt have 
to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs S. Instead, it had to give them sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable Mr and Mrs S to make an informed choice 
about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in 
a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if 
Mr S was unable to work through accident, sickness and unemployment.) I have reached 
this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would have taken out the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was. And I think Mr and Mrs S knew that the single 
premium being added to the loan was £326.92, the interest added to the premium was 
£74.48, the total cost was 401.40 and the monthly cost was £11.15 (as this information was, 
in my view, sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Mr and Mrs S signed).  
But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, sufficient information or about the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs S agreed to take out the policy. 
So I cant say Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mr and Mrs Ss representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ss. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ss representative considers to be 
poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained the significance of them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court 
would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and 
standards of good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to conclude that Nationwide ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs S. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
and Mrs S suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs S would have still taken out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs S say they would not have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs S had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs S chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude they had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs S thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs S suffered any loss or 
detriment. 
I think the information Mr and Mrs S were given about the cost was probably clear. The 
application form clearly set out the additional cost of the PPI, the associated interest, the total cost and the extra monthly cost. Given how it is set out in the application form, I think 
the person selling the cover would have also made the cost clear. But the information about 
other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs S would get back in 
return in the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely their expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet their 
loan payments) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions or disease Mr S knew 
about or ought to have known about at the start date of the policy; or any medical 
condition or disease for which he received advice, treatment or for which he was 
referred for further investigation in the 12 months before the policy started and which 
recurred within 12 months of the start date;  
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mr S 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim Mr S be unable to do 
any work as certified by a doctor registered in the UK.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have 
dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from 
taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. Mr S was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr S 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  he didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions and he was in permanent employment. So, I still think Mr and Mrs S had 
some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental health conditions or place any additional restrictions 
or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence 
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr S needed to be totally unable to do work. I dont think this is 
likely to be too different to what Mr and Mrs S would have expected to make a claim. So it 
seems unlikely they would have thought Mr S would have been able to make a successful 
claim if he was still working. 
The policy did provide a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled early, so the policy provided 
flexibility if Mr and Mrs S decided to repay the loan early and cancel the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting and provided benefits that would help them manage the consequences were Mr S made redundant, or unable to work through accident 
or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought the PPI unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Ss circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position they 
found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they would have been in had 
the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed 
to give proper weight to the evidence  including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken 
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that would put them in a better 
position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2021.  
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman