DRN-2435446
The complaint
Ms D complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) gave her 
unsuitable advice to invest in a Personal Equity Plan causing her financial loss.
What happened
Ms D says the financial adviser that worked for Prudential advised her to invest in a 
Personal Equity Plan (PEP). The advisor was known to Ms D and she says it was someone 
who she trusted to give her suitable advice as she considered him to be a family friend. In 
1997, Prudential advised Ms D to invest £50 a month into this PEP. These payments 
continued until 2002.
Mrs D says she was wrongly advised to invest in the PEP as she was an inexperienced 
person who had never previously made any investments. She didnt understand the high 
risk involved at the time. She says she was earning a low income and didnt have any other 
savings. She says she didnt have the financial ability to sustain any losses and the risks 
were not made clear to her. She believes that the investments were not suitable and were 
mis-sold to her. She says if she had been made fully aware of the risk involved, she 
wouldnt have invested in this product so she would like all the money she invested 
returned to her.
In November 2019, Ms D complained to Prudential. They upheld her complaint saying they 
felt the investment wasnt suitable considering her circumstances and agreed to reimburse 
her the money shed invested and 8% simple interest. They offered her £428.78 in total.
Unhappy with the amount being offered, Ms D brought her complaint to this service. Ms Ds 
complaint is about the advice given to her in 2010 but she didnt complain to Prudential 
until November 2019, so an investigator here asked for their consent to consider the merits 
of this complaint and they agreed. 
The investigator agreed with Ms D and upheld her complaint. She used a fair 
compensation approach to remedy the situation and awarded her fair value compensation 
and 8% simple interest.
 
Ms D didnt agree with the redress the investigator awarded, so this has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it should be upheld. I will explain why. 
suitability of advice
Ive looked at what information was available to consider whether the advice to invest in a 
PEP was suitable, including Ms Ds knowledge and understanding of the investment, what 
her financial situation was, her investment objectives and her attitude to risk. 
Ms D had never previously made any investments, so her knowledge and experience of 
investments was limited to this investment in the PEP. Prudential should have been able to 
establish the level of experience she had in investments, her existing holdings and current 
financial situation. There is nothing to suggest she had any previous experience of this type 
of investment, or other investments. She says she trusted the advisor as he was known to 
her, so this only added to her being dependent on the advice she was receiving from them.
She earned a low income and after outgoings had very little disposable income available to 
her. The money she was using for investment was a sum that was given to her by her 
grandad to help her while she was earning a low income. She had no other income or 
savings to fall back on.
It is also necessary to establish Ms Ds investment objectives to understand whether the 
advice given was suitable. Her primary objective was to help her towards saving money for a 
deposit to purchase her first home in around five years time. Prudential advised her to invest 
all her money into the PEP but they should have known the level of risk she was prepared to 
take. From what Ive seen, she didnt want to take any risk as this was the only funds she 
had for her deposit money, particularly as she said her job was of a temporary nature and 
that she was also likely to see changes with her work and therefore also her income. 
Ms D says she was told there was no risk involved and was never told there was a possibility 
she could lose the whole sum she had invested. I dont think Ive seen enough to say that 
Prudential explained the risk the investment presented or that she understood the risk 
involved. Having reviewed everything thats been said, its clear it exposed her to risk that 
she wasnt prepared to take at that time, and Im persuaded this was not in line with her 
attitude to risk so I think the advice she received to invest in this PEP was unsuitable.
Prudential have already accepted that the investment was too high risk for Ms D, but they 
consider her to be someone that would have accepted some risk and have suggested 
compensation on this basis. I disagree with their assessment and feel that Ms D should not 
have been advised to take any risk when considering all the circumstances I mentioned 
above. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Ms D 
as close to the position she would likely now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice. I think Ms D would have invested differently  although it is not possible to say 
precisely what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given her circumstances and objectives when she invested.
To compensate Ms D fairly you should:-
1. Compare the performance of Ms D's investment with that of the benchmark shown below 
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If the 
actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
2. You should also pay interest as set out below.3. Provide the details of the calculation to Ms D in a clear, simple format. Income tax may be 
payable on any interest awarded. 
investment 
namestatus benchmark from (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
PEP surrendered average rate date of date 8% simple
from fixed rate investment surrendered per year on
bonds any loss from
the end date
to the date of
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. 
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, you should use 
the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. 
The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply those rates 
to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
you total all those payments and deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
I am satisfied that this approach is suitable as Ms D wanted to achieve a reasonable return 
without risking any of her capital. The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair 
measure given Ms D's circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that she would have 
invested only in a fixed rate bond but it is the sort of investment return a consumer could 
have obtained with little risk to their capital.
Ive also added the additional interest as Ms D was deprived of the use of any compensation 
money since the end date.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint against The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited. They should compensate Ms D as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman