DRN-2799846
The complaint
Mr M complained that Kabayan Finance Limited acted irresponsibly when it gave him 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr M took out loans with Kabayan as follows:
Mr M 
said 
that 
Kabay
an 
provid
ed him 
with 
multipl
e 
loans 
in a 
row 
withou
t 
proper
ly checking his financial status and up to date credit listings. He told us that this has left him 
struggling financially.
When he complained to Kabayan it said it didnt believe that it acted irresponsibly and the 
loans Kabayan issued were affordable and responsibly lent based on the information Mr M 
provided at the time and the checks that were carried out. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators view and so his complaint comes to me to decide. 
Mr M mainly felt that if proper checks were done Kabayan would have seen the full extent of 
his other borrowing and it should have realised he couldnt afford these loans and not lent to 
him. Mr M sent in details of his borrowing taken out with other providers of high cost credit in 
support of what hed told us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website and Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 24/11/2014 28/05/2015 6 £500.00 £125.00
2 19/06/2015 28/07/2015 1 £100.00 £120.00
3 22/08/2015 28/09/2015 1 £150.00 £180.00
4 17/12/2015 28/01/2016 1 £300.00 £360.00
5 02/03/2017 04/05/2017 3 £500.00 £225.00
6 04/05/2017 05/06/2017 6 £700.00 £175.00
7 09/10/2017 28/03/2018 6 £700.00 £175.00
8 02/11/2018 26/04/2019 6 £700.00 £175.00Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Kabayan provided Mr M with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So Kabayan 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. Kabayan was required to carry 
out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was sustainable for 
Mr M before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding 
whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did Kabayan complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ms loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did Kabayan make a fair lending decision?
Kabayan says that, as well as relying on information Mr M provided about his monthly 
income and expenditure, it also looked at details held by credit reference agencies before it 
agreed to lend to Mr M. And it believed that the information it had recorded for Mr M showed 
the loans shouldve been affordable for him. 
Mr M feels strongly that proper checks shouldve made Kabayan realise he couldnt afford 
further loans. 
Keeping in mind everything that Mr M and Kabayan have said, I've looked at each loan in 
turn. 
loan 1
At this early stage, Mr M didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Kabayan to any underlying money problems. And I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr M provided or the information Kabayan had, which meant that Kabayan 
shouldve enquired further into Mr Ms financial circumstances. Kabayan asked Mr M for 
details of his monthly income and expenditure and this led Kabayan to conclude, reasonably 
in my view, that the monthly repayments shouldve been comfortably affordable for him. So 
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Mr M took out loan 2 within a few weeks of paying loan 1  but hed made all the loan 
repayments on time and he was asking for a much smaller loan this time. So I dont think 
Kabayan had any reason to think it shouldnt lend to him again or that Mr M would be likely 
to have a problem making the repayment on loan 2. 
The loan looked like it should be comfortably affordable for Mr M on the figures hed 
declared. And I dont think there was anything in the information that Kabayan had recorded 
for Mr M, or anything else that it shouldve been aware of, which wouldve caused Kabayan 
to think this loan wasnt affordable for Mr M when he took it out. So I dont feel Ive seen 
enough to be able to uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 2.
loan 3
Although this loan was for more than the loan he had recently paid, there was a short gap 
between Mr M paying loan 2 and taking out loan 3. So I dont think Kabayan had any reason 
to think that Mr M was dependent on taking out this new loan to cover the cost of paying his 
previous loan. His financial situation looked broadly unchanged and he hadnt shown any 
signs that paying for his previous loans had been difficult for him. 
I havent seen anything else which wouldve caused Kabayan to think this loan wasnt 
affordable for Mr M when he took it out. So I cant say Ive seen enough to be able to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint about loan 3.
loan 4
I do think Kabayan should have looked further into Mr Ms circumstances by the time he took 
out loan 4  the monthly repayment for this loan was a relatively large amount bearing in 
mind Mr Ms take home pay. But, I havent seen anything in the information available to me 
which shows Kabayan would have decided not to agree this loan had it done so. And the 
information Kabayan had collected seemed to support Kabayans lending decision  there 
wasnt anything to indicate that the loan wouldnt be sustainably affordable for Mr M or that it 
was unfair to lend it to him. So I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 4.
loan 5
Like the adjudicator, I think its fair to treat loan 5 as the start of a new chain of loans. The 
gap in lending between Mr M paying loan 4 and taking out loan 5 was more than a year and 
long enough in my view for Kabayan reasonably to think that Mr M hadnt been dependent 
on high cost short term loans during this period. This meant that when Mr M applied for 
loan 5 he was effectively starting over and I think it was fair for Kabayan to assess his 
lending requests accordingly. 
As before, Kabayan gathered information about Mr Ms income and outgoings and I think its 
checks were proportionate having regard to the fact this was Mr Ms first loan in this chain of 
borrowing, bearing in mind the loan amount and the fact that he was planning to repay it in 
three monthly instalments  which was a reasonably foreseeable period. 
loan 6Mr M paid loan 5 early and when he took out loan 6 he borrowed a larger amount. But I dont 
think the increase in the loan amount was enough on its own to have concerned a 
responsible lender. I cant fairly say that Mr M had shown any signs that hed found it hard to 
pay for loan 5. The figures hed declared, and the information Kabayan had collected, seem 
to support Kabayans lending decision  there wasnt anything to indicate that the loan 
wouldnt be sustainably affordable for him or that it was unfair to lend it to him. All the 
indications were that hed be well able to manage the loan repayments  which were less 
than the loan hed just repaid - without any apparent signs of financial difficulty. I dont think 
Kabayan had any reason to think it needed to do more checks than it did. So Im not 
upholding Mr Ms complaint about loan 6.
loan 7
In the event, Mr M repaid loan 6 after just a month or so and he didnt apply for loan 7 until 
three clear months later. His financial situation generally was broadly unchanged and the 
credit checks Kabayan carried out didnt suggest anything of concern. Hed paid his previous 
loan early and shown no sign that making the loan repayments had been a problem for him. 
I think Kabayan was reasonably entitled to take the view that it had carried out proportionate 
checks and there was nothing seen to suggest that the loan wasnt affordable for Mr M or 
that it would be unfair to lend to him. So I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 7.
loan 8
Mr M didnt ask Kabayan for any more loans during the period 28 March  2 November 
2018. That gap in lending seems long enough to me for Kabayan reasonably to think that 
Mr M mightve put his finances in order during this period  it didnt suggest he had become 
reliant on taking out expensive short term lending. So I dont think Kabayan wouldve had 
any reason to think this was the case, despite this being the eighth loan it had provided to 
Mr M. 
And Ive come to the same view as our adjudicator about this loan. Ive looked at the 
information Kabayan recorded for Mr M, including income and expenditure details from the 
time and the checks it carried out. I agree that there isnt enough to say Kabayan shouldnt 
have provided the loan to Mr M. Looking at the repayments that Mr M needed to make on 
this loan, the amounts wouldve seemed relatively affordable compared with the disposable 
income hed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Kabayan to ask 
Mr M for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable before agreeing loan 8. So thats why Im not upholding loan 8. 
Im sorry that Mr M found repaying these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality Mr Ms 
financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the 
other information Kabayan obtained.
But even if Kabayan had gathered all the information it shouldve done before agreeing to 
lend and taken steps to verify that information where it ought to have done, I havent seen 
anything to make me think that it wouldve seen information that wouldve made Kabayan 
realise that Mr M was going to find it difficult to repay loans in a sustainable way or that it 
was unfair to continue lending to him. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account the information Mr M has sent me showing 
the extent of his other borrowing. Although this information suggests that Kabayan possibly 
didnt have a proper understanding of Mr Ms actual financial situation at the time, if this 
wasnt information that Mr M told Kabayan about, then Kabayan couldnt have known about 
it and I cant fairly say that Kabayan shouldve known about it. Its also worth remembering that a lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers 
credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday 
and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So, this may explain 
any differences between what Kabayan saw and what Mr M feels his actual position was at 
the time he was applying for these loans.
Ive also taken into account what Mr M said about what happened on some of his other 
complaints. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the 
circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on other cases doesnt 
change my conclusion here.  
I hope that setting out my reasons as I've done helps explain why Ive reached these 
conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman