DRN-3643396
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined a claim
under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2020, Miss K made a claim on her lifetime pet insurance policy when her dog,
who Ill call H, was diagnosed with allergies.
Red Sands declined Miss Ks claim stating that the medical history showed that Hs condition
was first noted in June 2017, prior to the inception of the policy. And the policy doesnt cover
pre-existing medical conditions.
They also added exclusions to the policy for claims with respect to the eyes and eye lids,
allergies with any cause, skin conditions and the ears. This was backdated to the start of the
policy.
Unhappy with this, Miss K raised a complaint. Red Sands said they were unable to amend
their decision as they were satisfied the claim was declined correctly, in line with the terms
and conditions.
Our investigator said that Red Sands hadnt asked clear questions when the policy was sold.
She agreed Hs condition was pre-existing but felt Miss K wasnt aware of it. She said it
wasnt fair for Red Sands to exclude treatment for Hs ears. She asked them to reassess
Miss Ks claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy and add 8% simple interest to
the amount payable under the policy if Miss Ks claim is covered.
Red Sands disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Miss K also didnt accept
that Hs condition was pre-existing.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision on 3 August 2022. My findings were as follows:
Our investigator has touched on whether Red Sands asked clear questions at the 
point of sale regarding Hs prior medical history. This was to determine if the 
exclusions Red Sands applied to the policy were fair.
However, Miss K has told us she cancelled her policy in December 2021. As such, 
its no longer relevant for me to consider this aspect of the complaint. I say this 
because Im not able to ask Red Sands to remove exclusions from a policy that 
doesnt exist. Instead, Ive focused on whether Red Sands acted fairly when they 
declined Miss Ks claim.
The policy terms and conditions say they exclude cover for:
any claims or costs for or relation to a pre-existing condition(s) or for an 
accident, injury or illness that first showed clinical signs at any time before the 
commencement date of the policy or within 14 days of the commencement 
date
Based on this, Im satisfied its reasonably clear that the policy doesnt cover any pre-
existing condition(s).
Pre-existing condition is defined as:
any condition, symptom or sign of a condition occurring or existing in any 
form and at any time prior to the commencing date
Clinical signs is defined as:
any observable changes in a pets normal healthy state, condition, 
appearance, bodily function or behaviour; observed visually, diagnostically or 
otherwise
This means if H had a condition or was showing any symptoms or signs of a 
condition in any form, or at any time before the policy started on 5 July 2019, then 
Miss K wont be covered for it.
I asked both Red Sands vet and Miss Ks vet to provide their opinion on whether Hs
condition was pre-existing. Ive shared the vet opinions alongside this provisional 
decision with both parties to this complaint. So, I wont repeat the details here. In 
summary, Red Sands vet feel Hs condition is pre-existing, but Miss Ks vet dont 
agree.
Having weighed up both expert opinions, I find the opinion given by Red Sands vet 
to be more persuasive and compelling, particularly when reviewing it against Hs 
medical history.
The medical history shows that H was taken to the vets in June 2017, for issues with 
his ears. The vet noted that H was scratching his ears for a few days. H had excess 
wax in both ears and were slightly stenotic.
In May 2018, H was taken to the vets for inflammation in his paws and again in 
December 2018, for inflammation and infection in his paws and nasal.
Between December 2017 and May 2019, H was taken to the vets five times for 
concerns with his eyes including allergic conjunctivitis, eye flare up, eye irritation and 
infection in the eyes.
These signs and symptoms were similar to those that H experienced leading up to 
when he was diagnosed with allergies in December 2020, as noted in the medical 
history. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Red Sands to conclude that H was 
showing signs and symptoms of allergies prior to the policy inception. These 
symptoms are also consistent with those described by Red Sands vet as typical for 
dogs suffering from allergic skin disease.
I appreciate Miss K doesnt agree that the issues with Hs ears in 2017 and 2020 are 
linked or continuous. She has explained that in 2017, Hs ears were dirty, and he was 
prescribed ear drops. Whereas in 2020, he suffered with his ear canals closing. She 
emphasised that H hasnt had any pre-existing issues with his ears.I accept H didnt visit the vets with any further ear problems after June 2017 until July 
2020. But this doesnt mean that the issues couldnt reasonably be linked. As 
explained above, the medical history says that Hs ear was slightly stenotic in 2017. 
This means Hs ear canals were slightly narrowed. The medical history of July 2020, 
states that both ears had discharge and some chronic changes were present. This 
indicates the issue in Hs ears continued to last. Also, Hs ear canals were starting to 
close as per the medical history in around December 2020.
The medication H was prescribed alongside the ear cleaner in 2017 is commonly 
prescribed to treat otitis externa. Miss Ks vet has agreed with this. H was given a 
different ear solution from June 2020 onwards. This ear solution is also used to treat 
the same condition otitis externa which Red Sands vet have explained is often a 
complication of allergic skin disease. H also received other medication which is 
appropriate for allergic skin disease.
These factors suggest that the signs and symptoms of allergies that H experienced in 
2020 were similar to those noted in 2017.
Also, I think its important to point out that the claim made here isnt solely for issues 
with Hs ears. The claim was submitted with a diagnosis or suspected diagnosis of 
Allergies.
Miss Ks vet have told us that they cant definitively state whether Hs issues with his 
eyes, ears or feet are solely dependent of the diagnosis of allergies. So, it wouldnt 
be fair to only consider the issues with Hs ear as the allergies could also be likely 
due to the problems with Hs ears, eyes and/or feet.
This is consistent with the medical history which show H visited the vets complaining 
about his eyes, ears and skin in the six months prior to the diagnosis being made. 
And, as per the medical history, these signs and symptoms were similar to those that 
H experienced prior to the policy inception in July 2019.
I appreciate Miss Ks vet have pointed out that the cause for the otitis externa wasnt
determined in 2017. They also say the diagnosis of allergic conjunctivitis wasnt a 
fixed diagnosis, but they believe was a clinical opinion. However, the policy definition 
of a pre-existing condition doesnt require a diagnosis to be made. A symptom or sign 
of a condition would be considered a pre-existing condition under the policy terms.
I know Miss K feels very strongly about her complaint. But all things considered, Im 
satisfied Red Sands declined Miss Ks claim fairly and in line with the policy terms 
and conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions.
Miss K replied to say she was unhappy with the situation and felt Red Sands were clearly in 
the wrong. She said she didnt think there was any point in arguing further as there was not a 
lot she could do. Red Sands said they didnt have anything further to add. I dont underestimate Miss Ks disappointment, but as there isn't any further evidence for me 
to consider I see no reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman