DRN-4457648
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the quality of repairs arranged by QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) following an
accident when driving her car, under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D was involved in an accident whilst driving in March 2022. QIC accepted her claim and
arranged for repairs to be carried out. Mrs D says the car wasnt repaired to a good standard
and had to be returned on five occasions. She says further damage occurred whilst the car
was with QICs repairer.
Mrs D says she had a ceramic coating applied to her car in 2020. This requires monthly
maintenance/inspections in line with the warranty. She says due to damage caused by QICs
repairer her car needs to be completely repainted. This must be done prior to a new ceramic
coating being applied.
In its final complaint response QIC acknowledges the repairs werent of a satisfactory
standard. It says several attempts were made to resolve this, following which its in-house
engineer inspected the repairs in July 2022. A number of recommendations were made at
this time for further work. Another attempt at rectifying the issues was attempted but Mrs D
wasnt satisfied with the condition of the car.
An independent engineer was arranged to inspect the car in September 2022. QIC obtained
a quote from a different repairer to complete the work the engineer had specified. It says Mrs
D didnt agree to any further repairs unless it agreed to repaint the whole vehicle. QIC says it
couldnt agree to this, as it would mean rectifying damage caused by wear and tear.
QIC says Mrs D accepted its cash in lieu payment, to arrange for the repairs herself. Albeit
she wanted a higher payment for a full repaint and for additional work to be carried out by
her detailer. QIC apologised for delays in obtaining reports during Mrs Ds claim and offered
her £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused.
Mrs D didnt think QIC had treated her fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our
investigator upheld her complaint. She says Mrs Ds car had a ceramic coating applied prior
to the accident. Her detailer has advised the coating cant be reapplied, and the car returned
to its pre-loss condition, unless the car is repainted.
Our investigator says that to ensure QIC indemnifies Mrs D for her loss in full, it must pay for
the car to be repainted, so that the ceramic coating can be put back on. She says Mrs D
should provide three quotes and QIC can cash settle based on the lowest. She says QIC
should also pay Mrs D £500 compensation for the inconvenience she was caused.
Mrs D didnt agree. She thought additional damage had been caused by QIC that should be
included in the claim. QIC didnt think it should pay more than it had previously offered based
on the work the independent engineer specified. It also says £500 compensation is too high.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2023 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Having done so, my intention is to uphold Mrs Ds complaint in part. Im not going to require
the repairs she requested, which I understand will be disappointing for her. But Ill explain
why I think my decision is fair.
I wont comment on each and every point from the extensive correspondence exchanged
between the parties here. Ill focus on the key points relevant to my decision. But I have
considered all the information.
Mrs Ds car was returned for rework on five occasions. I dont think she should reasonably
expect this from a professional garage appointed by QIC. Its clear from the photos and
reports provided that there were a number of issues with the repairs. This includes ill-fitting
panels, where the gap width is uneven and there are defects with the paintwork. I dont think
its reasonable to take multiple attempts to put this right.
Ive read the independent engineers report, which is dated 20 September 2022. The
engineer specified the following rectification work:
1. Panel alignment  panels to be removed, and front end checked for unseen damage, and
panels refitted properly and gapped according to the [industry standard] panel gap guides
2. paint rubbed through on r/h/f wing next to door edge  the r/h/f wing to be repainted and
door blend if required.
3. cleanliness of the vehicle after repair  once the repairs have been completes [sic] the
vehicle has to be cleaned properly.
4. bonnet bolts not touched up  all bolts removed or loosened for the original repair must be
checked and touched up if required.
5. holes where bonnet has been hung to be painted not touched up  We would suggest the
complete underside of the bonnet to be repainted.
QIC based its cash payment on the repairs specified here. It says it also included the cost of
applying the ceramic coating within this payment.
Mrs D has provided information from the detailer she used to apply the ceramic coating. I
understand from this that he inspected the car on each occasion it was returned to Mrs D
from QICs repairer. Ive read what he says. The detailer provides an explanation of the work
he considers necessary to return Mrs Ds vehicle back to its pre-collision standard. He
explains that he photographed the car under a 5000k lighting system within a detailing
studio. He lists eleven issues that remain with the car.
In his email the detailer says there are a number of areas that he wouldnt be able to rectify
to Mrs Ds standards. He says this is because the damage is irreparable and he refers to,
burn through, bumper alignments and RDS [random deep scratches] around the vehicle
that were through the clear coat, colour coat and primer into the plastic or metal substrate.
Ive copied the detailers summary below:
This vehicle left the factory went [sic] built and would have been sprayed by robotic arms
meaning a very consistent amount of paint was laid on the vehicle with a consistent texture
within the paint also known as orange peel. The vehicle has then underwent extensive paint
correction to remove all defects from the clear coat whilst leaving the texture within the paintand was finally protected with state of the art nano coatings to take the vehicle to the clients
desired standard.
And:
The vehicle now sits in a state whereby by there is no continuity of the paint system
meaning some areas have around 90 microns of paint remaining on the panels and some
painted panels are sitting at 300 micron. This in turns means there is a major inconsistency
of texture within the paint at this time. This can be rectified to a point with wet sanding prior
to paint correction being carried out however it will not be possible to get the car back to pre
accident levels of consistency and continuity without being painted by a competent
bodyshop before arriving back with myself.
The third and final reason why the vehicle should receive a full respray Is due to most of the
vehicle having damage that it did not before the collision took place. The only panel that has
no damage from previous bodyshop work is on the roof however it would be extremely
unprofessional and counter productive to respray a full vehicle and leave the roof untouched.
This would mean the full vehicle would have around 300 microns of paint after the respray
however the roof would remain at 90 microns and again have differences in texture between
painted and unpainted panels. The roof would then be open to the paint system failing
long before the rest of the vehicles paint due to degradation over time. Degradation would be
stopped by the application of the nano coatings however for continuity and peace of mind for
the client my recommendation would be a respray of the full vehicle for it to return to pre
collision standards before I can finally take the car back to the clients personal standard.
We asked QIC for it to reply to Mrs Ds detailers comments. It provided a response from its
in-house engineer. It says he has an expertise in vehicle painting and extensive
qualifications and experience. Ive copied relevant excerpts from the engineers response
below:
..the Manufacturers paint application process is indeed by Robot but this does not ensure a
guaranteed uniform paint depth across a vehicle body shell. The original paint depths across
a new vehicle can be anything from 60-180 microns depending on the orientation of the
panel. Horizontal panels such as a roof or bonnet generally have a thicker paint film,
whereas the vertical panel such as a door will have less paint applied. This stands to reason
due the run or sag risk, which will be lesser on a flat panel and greater on a vertical panel.
Any vehicle that has had a body repair will, without exception have a greater paint thickness
than a vehicle straight from the Factory as any additional coatings will increase the paint film.
It should also be pointed out a vehicle painted in the factory is coated as bare body shell with
no other components added. The Manufacturer use a high bake paint product which as the
name suggests is baked at temperatures in excess of 100 degrees, which would melt any
components if they were fitted prior to this operation. The body repair industry use a low
bake paint product which is baked at an air temperature of around 80 degrees (panel
temperature of around 60 degrees). Basically, this means no vehicle that has had at the
least a paint repair will be exactly as it was when it came from the factory and in fact, many
vehicles supplied as new have already had a paint rectification before being supplied
and registered. Panels that require a repair can be repaired using body filler which is an
industry approved repair method, which will also increase the readings of the repaired
surface over that of the factory. If a ruling were to be made in this case, and stood as a
president, it could have an adverse effect on the whole industry as vehicles could never be
returned to the factory standard in the true sense.
The Vehicle Detailer is, I believe, referring to very minor surface marks which he seems to
be holding the original Bodyshop accountable for (with no just cause in our engineersopinion) that were identified under artificial lighting that no UK Bodyshop holds. We disagree
with the statement it would be un-professional and counter productive by not painting every
panel on the vehicle. If this argument was correct every vehicle that received some form of
paint damage would be fully resprayed, rather than just the affected parts being addressed.
If we are to be held responsible for painting the roof as well as the all the other panels that
arent justifiably damaged to the extent they must be painted then surely, this is betterment
and not just re-instating the Policy Holders Vehicle to its pre-accident Condition.
Having read the application guide for [manufacturers name] Infinite coatings, after
decontaminating the paintwork from road film and tar spots it is recommended one step of
paint correction to improve the gloss and remove defects. This would essentially be by
flatting the surface with 1500 or 2000 Fine or ultra fine sanding materials and then machine
polishing the surface back to full lustre. In my opinion the panels not already subject to
discussion would lend themselves to the method of correction.
I am confident [the detailer] advised in an earlier report that even if a competent
Bodyshop remedied the paint defects reported by the Insured he would still need to carry out
the paint operations prior to his application of the new coating.
I dont believe [Mrs D] will accept any less of a solution based on the recommendations of
her Vehicle Detailer. If we should be held responsible for the damage allegedly caused by
the Original Repairer (Appointed by Us) ie the right hand rear door and rear bumper this
would still not constitute a full respray. The full front end required rectification paintwork
along with the right hand front door, all of which was covered in the cash settlement already
made. Including the rear door and bumper this would still leave the tailgate, roof, left hand
quarter panel and both left hand doors given if the rear door was painted this would
inevitably require the right hand quarter to be included for blend purposes. [detailer] had
previously advised the remaining panels could be restored to the level he required with
detailing on his part. Does this not provide evidence the full respray wouldnt be necessary?
The Paint coating applied to the vehicle was not declared at the inception of the policy
despite [Mrs D] commissioning this work. Any addition to a vehicle since it left the Factory
would be considered a modification. Had this paint coating been declared at inception the
policy would have likely been rejected as this is not covered under the QIC policy. Whilst I
accept the repairs were not completed to a satisfactory standard, the cash settlement
awarded was fair and reasonable..
Ive carefully considered what the detailer and QICs engineer have said. Having done so Im
more persuaded by the engineers view. I think a cash settlement to cover the repairs
identified by the independent engineer is a fair resolution here. This allows Mrs D to use her
own choice of garage to carry out the remaining repairs.
We expect an insurer to arrange an effective and lasting repair. Based on the evidence
provided, this is what the independent engineer proposed, based on accepted industry
standards and practices for repairing accident damaged cars.
I think QIC makes a fair point when it says Mrs D has modified her car by adding the ceramic
coating. This increased the cost involved when repairing the damage caused by the
accident. Mrs D didnt inform QIC of this. I note its engineers comment that the policy would
likely have been rejected if shed have declared this modification. I havent seen QICs
underwriting criteria to support this point. But I do think this is something an insurer would
expect to be told about prior to a policy incepting. Particularly given the impact this has on
the cost of the claim.
As it stands QIC has agreed to pay for a ceramic coating. I think this is reasonable. Butbased on what its engineer says, Im not persuaded that its necessary to repaint the car, in
full, in order to achieve an acceptable standard of repair. QICs engineer is essentially saying
that Mrs D and her detailer are demanding a standard of finish that is way in excess of that
which is required or expected from a competent accident repairer. I find this view persuasive
based on the explanations provided by the engineer. Although I think its reasonable that
QIC has decided to include the ceramic coating in its cash payment to Mrs D, I dont think its
responsible for paying for the work her detailer says is necessary.
Ive seen the scope of repair work on which QIC based its cash settlement to Mrs D. This
includes the cost of detailing and the ceramic coating. In total the payment came to
£3,697.48. I think this payment was fair, so I wont ask QIC to increase it.
I acknowledge Mrs Ds view that there are scratches caused by QICs repairers that havent
been addressed. But this wasnt identified by the independent engineer during his
inspection. I think its fair that the cost of the remaining repairs is based on the defects set
out in the independent engineers report.
Ive thought about the impact all of his has had on Mrs D. QICs repairer has clearly failed to
complete the repairs to an acceptable standard. Five attempts to remedy the situation is
excessive, and more work is still needed. Ive no doubt that this has caused Mrs D a great
deal of inconvenience. However, I think the matter couldve reasonably been resolved at the
point QIC paid Mrs D its cash settlement on 17 February 2023. So, although I think QIC
should compensate Mrs D for the inconvenience, I think a payment for £350 represents a fair
outcome here.
I said I was intending to partially uphold this complaint and QIC should pay Mrs D £350 
compensation. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
QIC responded to say it accepted my provisional decision.
Mrs D responded at length to explain why she felt my decision was unfair. I wont be 
commenting on every point she makes in her letter. A large part of what she says is a repeat 
of the information Ive already considered and commented upon in my provisional decision. I 
have read her letter in full, but Ill focus on those points I think are relevant here. 
In brief, Mrs D says QICs repairer was responsible for causing further damage to her car, 
and so it should be responsible for ensuring its returned to the condition it was in prior to her 
claim. She says owning a car like hers is not easy and requires stringent care and 
maintenance work. She highlights how the car cannot be washed with a sponge, as this will 
cause swirl marks. She says if on her daily inspection she found bird excrement or tree sap 
present, she would remove it without delay. 
 
Mrs D says the car cannot be washed during a service as even this could have a 
catastrophic result on paintwork and degradation in the performance of the ceramic coating. 
After her accident Mrs D says she was convinced her car would never be recoverable to the 
identical standard it had been previously. But on discussion with her detailer, she was deeply 
relieved when he told her the condition could be recovered. Mrs D says she was surprised 
when QIC agreed to cover the cost of the ceramic coating. And at no time was she told this 
was a modification to her car. 
In her letter Mrs D reiterates her account of finding damage unrelated to the accident following the repairs. And highlights the five occasions when the car was returned for 
remedial work. 
Mrs D says QICs engineer has given a generalised account. She says his comments that 
our service would set a precedent by upholding her complaint that would adversely affect the 
industry, are dramatic and exaggerated. She says its entirely inappropriate for the engineer 
to use scare tactics to persuade our service not to uphold her complaint. 
Mrs D refers to my provisional decision that says, and more work is still needed. She says 
this is confusing and implies a full respray is still required as she indicated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mrs Ds further comments. But Im not persuaded to change my 
findings.
As I explained in my provisional decision, QIC is expected to provide a lasting and effective 
repair. Based on the evidence Ive seen this is what the independent engineer proposed, 
based on accepted industry standards and practices for repairing accident damaged cars. 
I note Mrs Ds comments that she wasnt told the ceramic coating was a modification. But I 
think its engineers comments are persuasive that this is a modification. I think it was 
reasonable for QIC to pay for a replacement ceramic coating. But I dont think this was 
necessarily something it was required to do under the terms of its policy. 
I understand Mrs Ds view that its incumbent on QIC to return her car to the standard it was 
in before the accident. But I think QICs engineers comments are fair, that Mrs D and her 
detailer are demanding a standard of finish that is way in excess of that required from a 
competent accident repairer. I think its reasonable it decided to include the cost of the 
ceramic coating. But I think the settlement payment based on the repair costs, identified by 
the independent engineer, to allow Mrs D to arrange the remaining work herself, was fair. 
I note Mrs Ds reference to my comment in the provisional decision that, work is still 
needed. When writing my provisional decision, I didnt think itd been made clear that Mrs D 
had arranged for the final repairs to be completed. This is why I said more work was needed. 
I wasnt inferring that a full respray was necessary. Im sorry if this confused Mrs D but this 
doesnt impact on my findings. 
Im sorry Mrs D is disappointed with my decision, but Im not persuaded by what she says in 
her further submission that a different outcome is warranted. So, my final decision is the 
same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. QIC Europe Ltd should:
pay Mrs D £350 compensation for the inconvenience it caused her. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman