DRN-3064721
The complaint
Miss S, Mrs J and Mr S complain that the address on their accounts was not updated by 
National Westminster Bank Plc when they notified it of a change of address. The three 
accounts are linked, and Mrs S complains on behalf of all three complainants. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won't repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so I will focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs S, Mrs J and Mr S moved into a new property in May 2020. Mrs S changed the 
address on her account and the two sub accounts at the time. She contacted 
NatWest in November 2020 and again in March 2021 because it came to her 
attention that mail had still been going to the previous address. Mrs S said the 
address on the sub account in the name of Mrs J hadnt been updated since 
November 2009.  NatWest accepted it made an error by failing to update the 
address. 
In its final response NatWest accepted that while it tries to give its best service 
sometimes it doesnt get it right. It said it should have handled things better and 
apologised. 
Initially NatWest offered Mrs S, Mrs J and Mr S a total of £545 in compensation. This 
was made up of £110 for mileage, £85 for time spent on the complaint, £150 for 
distress and inconvenience and £200 for the data breach. Mrs S wasnt happy with 
this and NatWest awarded a further £400 as there were three instances of data 
breach. This meant there was £200 per data breach and a total compensation of 
£945. The payment for mileage to the branch and time spent were not disputed.
When deciding what potential compensation to award the ombudsman service takes 
two things into account: financial loss as a result of any business error and non-
financial loss, including inconvenience and upset.
Mrs S hasnt reported any financial loss related to the correspondence going to their 
old address. But a data breach is serious and has caused Mrs S and her family 
members some anxiety and stress. Im sorry to hear this. 
When we consider awards for non-financial loss, we think about the individual 
circumstances and the effect on the people involved. There isnt a set formula that 
we use to calculate awards for particular errors  its my role to look at the overall 
picture and decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
While I do understand NatWest could have handled this better Im satisfied that in the 
end NatWest made a reasonable attempt at putting things right. Particularly when it 
added the additional £400. NatWest awarded a total of £600 for the data breach and 
£150 for distress and inconvenience. I think this is reasonable, in line with our 
approach and what I would expect under the circumstances.  
Mrs S told this service that a data breach is very serious, and she thought the 
seriousness is being under played for the 3 accounts involved. I do understand Mrs 
Ss concerns. NatWest has accepted it made an error and while I can see it has 
caused a lot of worry, the data breach hasnt financially affected Mrs S or her family 
members. Our objective is to find a solution for the individual consumer, it is not to 
penalise the business. I must look at the impact of the mistake. And Im satisfied the 
remedy offered by NatWest is reasonable and proportionate.
 
Mrs S also told us that mail for the account in the name of Mrs J went to the old 
property for nearly 12 years. I can see that NatWest has compensated for this error 
in the same way as the other two accounts. Again, I find this reasonable for the 
reasons stated above. In addition, it is the responsibility of the account holders to 
ensure the bank has the correct address. I can see the address was incorrect for 
several years. And I think over that length of time Mrs S or Mrs J ought reasonably to 
have been aware that the address on this account was incorrect.  
My final decision
For the reasons stated above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J, Mr S and 
Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman