DRN-1577021
 
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs E says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs E took out on a store card account in April 1999. It 
was added to her account when she applied for the card in store.
Mrs E says she would not have opted for the policy if she had been provided with clearer 
information. She says the advisor indicated where to sign on the application form and she 
was not made fully aware of what she was signing up for. She thinks AXA mis-sold the policy 
to her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs E has said the optionality of the policy wasnt made clear to her. But I think AXA made 
Mrs E aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. I say 
this because AXA has given us a copy of the store card application form from the time of 
sale. This shows there was a separate section for PPI and that it is presented as optional. 
It says on the separate section for PPI: only sign this box if you require account cover. Mrs 
E then signs next to this statement. Had Mrs E not wanted the PPI she could have 
completed the application without signing separately for it.
So although I acknowledge Mrs Es comments, on balance, I think she was aware the policy 
was optional and she agreed to take it out by signing the separate section on the application 
form.
This application was made by Mrs E completing an application in a store. So because of this, 
I dont think a recommendation was made by AXA. So AXA didnt have to check if the policy was suitable for her. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mrs E enough information so 
she could make an informed choice whether the policy was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs E would have acted differently and not bought the policy, 
if better information had been provided. And on balance I dont think better information 
wouldve led her to act differently.
Mrs E has told us she had between 3 months full sick pay from her employer. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition to any provisions Mrs E would receive. I think taking into 
consideration what Mrs E has said about her circumstances, the PPI would have been useful 
to her in that her store card payments would be met. I also couldnt see any significant or 
limiting terms that would have affected Mrs Es decision to take the policy out either.
Im not sure AXA gave clear information on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think this 
would have affected Mrs Es decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. 
Ive taken into account all Mrs Es comments, but for the reasons mentioned above, these 
points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman