DRN-3818956
The complaint
Mr T complains that Aviva Insurance Limited stopped paying his payment protection 
insurance (PPI) claim when he reached the age of 65. 
What happened
Mr T was sold PPI alongside his mortgage back in 2008. He told us he made a number of 
claims over the years after becoming unwell and also after having surgery. 
On 7 October 20201, Mr T made a further claim for accident and sickness. His claim was not 
paid straightaway because the policy had a 30-day waiting period. Aviva paid Mr T with 
effect from 6 November 2021 to 5 December 2021.
However, on 10 December 2021, Aviva wrote to Mr T to say it would not make any further 
payment because Mr T had reached the age of 65. 
Mr T did not accept Avivas decision and he complained. He said he thought that if the claim 
had started before his 65th birthday, he should receive the maximum benefit of 12 months. 
Aviva did not change its decision and Mr T complained to this service. Our adjudicator didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld because Avivas decision was in line with the policys 
terms and conditions. 
Mr T did not accept what our adjudicator said. He said it was not stated on any of his 
mortgage statements that the cover would end when he was 65. And he hadnt had any 
policy documents from Aviva at any point. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr T will be disappointed with my decision, but I havent upheld his complaint. Ill 
explain why below. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the PPI policy and I can see that there is a section 
entitled When Will Claim Payments End. The policy goes on to say that Aviva will continue 
paying a claim until one of a number of events occurs. One of those events is that the 
person claiming reaches the age of 65. 
I do appreciate that Mr Ts claim started before his 65th birthday, but it seems to me that 
when he reached the age of 65, the terms and conditions say Aviva couldnt make any 
further payments to him.   
Mr T says that he thought Aviva should have at least paid him for a 30-day notice period. 
However, in further considering the terms and conditions, I can see they required Aviva to 
stop the claim immediately when he reached 65. I cant seen any provision for Aviva to pay 
Mr T during a notice period. For that reason, Im satisfied Aviva acted within the rules of the 
cover. 
Ive given careful thought to what Mr T said about not being aware that the policy would end 
when he was 65. Mr T said nothing was noted on his mortgage statements about the policy 
having an age limit. I wouldnt usually expect to see such information on a mortgage 
statement. And in any event, those statements would have come from his mortgage 
provider. I cant say Aviva did anything wrong because of information that was contained on 
the statements from another business. 
Mr T also told us that he hadnt received any policy documents from Aviva. However, I 
understand that such documents would be sent by the mortgage provider, and not Aviva. So 
even if Mr T didnt receive the policy documents, I cant say Aviva did anything wrong in that 
regard. 
With all of this in mind, I havent upheld the complaint and I dont need to tell Aviva to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman