DRN-4191739
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly applied account blocks. 
What happened
Mr M has explained that he resides abroad. In November 2022 Santander wrote to the 
address registered to Mr Ms account in the UK and advised it needed information and 
documents to complete a review. Santander requested documents to help verify Mr Ms 
income and personal details. 
Santanders contact notes show it held two telephone numbers for Mr M. One was a UK 
number, the other was a foreign number. Santanders records show it called both numbers 
on 2 November 2022, 3 November 2022 and 7 November 2022 but was unable to speak 
with Mr M. 
On 1 December 2022 Santander applied a block that meant Mr M was unable to use his 
account for spending as it hadnt received the required information. On 7 December 2022 Mr 
M called Santander and was given details of the information required. Santander asked Mr 
M to send proof of his identity and address, proof of savings and proof of his pension 
income. 
On 12 December 2022 Santander received documents from Mr M but they didnt meet the 
requirements to complete its review. Santanders records show it called Mr Ms UK and 
foreign numbers on 15 December 2022 but received no answer. Mr M called on 16 
December 2022 and was given the details concerning the outstanding documents.  
Santander temporarily removed the account block for a 14 day period to allow Mr M time to 
provide the outstanding information. 
As the required documents werent received within 14 days, Santander reapplied the 
account block during January 2023. Around a week later, Mr M called Santander back after 
finding account access had been blocked again. Santander subsequently looked at the 
information available and completed its review. The account block was removed and access 
restored to Mr M. 
Mr M has explained he was living abroad at the time and needed to pay for urgent medical 
care. Mr Ms told us that the account blocks and lack of access to his funds meant he wasnt 
able to pay for important life saving treatment following an accident. 
Mr M complained to Santander and it issued a final response. Santander said the account 
blocks had been correctly applied following requests for information to complete a customer 
review and didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
An investigator at this service reviewed Mr Ms case and upheld it in part. They noted Mr M 
hadnt updated his address so Santander was writing to him in the UK. The investigator said 
records indicated Santander had used Mr Ms UK mobile number to try and call him despite 
having a phone number recorded for him in the country he was residing. The investigator 
ask Santander to pay Mr M £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused and it agreed. 
Mr M asked to appeal and said Santanders decision to carry out a review of his account and 
apply blocks was unreasonable given his account use remained the same for a period of 
several years. Mr M also explained that Santanders actions caused serious problems due to 
his health and vulnerable position at the time account blocks were applied. As Mr M asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. I want to assure Mr M in particular that Ive reviewed all the correspondence hes sent 
us and full details setting out the basis and background of his complaint. 
Santander has explained it was completing a Know Your Customer (KYC) review when it 
contacted Mr M and asked him to supply documents. Mr Ms told us he doesnt think the 
process was required as his account use hadnt changed in several years. But businesses 
have to ensure up to date records are maintained and regularly carry out reviews of this 
nature for that purpose. So whilst I understand Mr Ms circumstances hadnt changed, Im 
satisfied Santander had a legitimate reason to contact him and request information and 
documents. 
Ive reviewed Santanders records and can see Mr Ms address is noted as being in the UK. 
Mr Ms confirmed the address recorded belongs to a family member and that he resides 
abroad. In my view, the fact Santander didnt have an up to date address for Mr M has 
impacted matters. Had the address been updated to reflect Mr Ms residence, its more likely 
he wouldve received Santanders letters asking for documents to complete its review. 
Our investigator said Santander had called Mr Ms UK mobile number but hadnt contacted 
him using the number on file for the country he resides in. But the contact records Ive seen 
show that when Santander attempted to call Mr M before applying the account blocks, it 
used both his UK and foreign numbers. The contact notes indicate Santander attempted to 
contact Mr M using both numbers on three occasions in November 2022. The contact notes 
say that when Santander called the foreign number it holds for Mr M there was no answer 
and no option to leave a message. And further attempts to call Mr M in December 2022 were 
also made to the foreign number Santander recorded. 
I dont doubt that Mr M was concerned to find his account had been blocked in December 
2022 and that the situation was concerning. But when Mr M spoke with Santander on 7 
December 2022 it sent him an email confirming how to submit the required documents. But 
when they were received a few days later, some of the documents couldnt be used and 
further information was required. On 16 December 2022 Mr M spoke with Santander again 
and the outstanding information was confirmed. The block was temporarily removed for a 14 
day period to allow Mr M to submit the remaining information. 
As the outstanding information wasnt received by Santander within 14 days the block was 
reapplied in January 2023. I dont doubt this caused Mr M further upset and concern. But as 
the required information hadnt been supplied, Im satisfied Santander acted reasonably and in line with what it had told Mr M in December 2022 when the block was reapplied. Once the 
required information was supplied, the KYC review process was completed and block 
removed. I appreciate this caused inconvenience to Mr M at a particularly difficult time. But 
Im satisfied Santander acted reasonably in the way account blocks were applied and 
havent been persuaded it treated Mr M unfairly. 
Mr M has given us lots of very personal information about serious health issues he was 
experiencing at the time and how the account blocks impacted him. I can see Mr M has been 
through a particularly difficult period and that his health was poor. But theres nothing on the 
contact notes with Santander that shows Mr M made his vulnerable situation known to the 
agents he spoke with. So it doesnt appear to me that Santander was aware of how difficult 
Mr Ms circumstances were at the time the account blocks were put in place. 
In response to the investigator, Mr M explained that a family member residing in the UK had 
attempted to resolve the situation with Santander on his behalf. But theres no authority on 
file that says Santander can discuss Mr Ms account or circumstances with a third party  
even a family member. So even if the third party had contacted Santander on Mr Ms behalf, 
Im satisfied it wouldnt have been able to discuss the status of Mr Ms accounts or its KYC 
review and subsequent blocks with them. 
Our investigator asked Santander to pay Mr M £150 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. As Ive said above, Im satisfied the evidence on file shows 
Santander called both the UK and foreign numbers it holds for Mr M when trying to contact 
him before the blocks were applied. But Santander could arguably have done more and 
attempted to call Mr M back when its initial calls went unanswered. So whilst Im satisfied 
Santander did use the numbers on file, I think a payment of £150 fairly reflects the level of 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr M but I havent 
been persuaded to increase the award or tell Santander to take any other action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay him £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman