DRN-3139561
The complaint
Miss B complains about a personal loan she had with UK Credit Limited (UCL). She said 
UCL hadnt done enough to check whether she could afford the loan.
  
What happened
In August 2019, Miss B took out a personal loan with UCL for £12,000 over a period of 60 
months, repayable at £373.70 a month. Miss B said she intended to use the loan to 
consolidate two loans and credit cards. Miss B said UCL didnt carry out enough checks to 
determine her financial position and hadnt asked to see her bank statements. She 
complained to UCL as she struggled to make the repayments. 
UCL said theyd carried out proportionate and reasonable checks when assessing Miss B for 
the loan that showed Miss B had enough disposable income each month to cover the 
monthly payments including the repayment of the new loan. As part of their investigation into 
Miss Bs complaint they also reviewed her bank statements prior to the loan being agreed 
and carried out an income and expenditure assessment from these. UCL said this showed 
Miss B had enough disposable income each month and so maintained the loan was 
affordable. 
Miss B wasnt happy with UCLs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Miss B was in a spiral of debt, and UCL had relied on Miss Bs account 
of her expenditure without further verification. She said given the amount of the loan and  
Miss Bs indebtedness she would have expected further checks to have been done. She 
said UCL hadnt done enough to establish Miss Bs financial situation. To put things right she 
asked UCL to add up the total amount of money Miss B received as a result of having been 
given the loan and:
the repayments Miss B made should be deducted from this amount, if this results in 
Miss B having paid more than she received, any overpayments should be refunded 
along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the overpayments were made 
until the date of settlement);
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then UCL should attempt to arrange an 
affordable and suitable payment plan with Miss B;
to remove any negative information recorded on Miss Bs credit file relating to the 
loan; and
remove the guarantors obligation under the agreement and remove any trace of the 
loan from the guarantors credit file.
UCL didnt agree with our investigators finding as they reiterated that Miss B had disposable 
income and that the loan was affordable. UCL asked for an ombudsman to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so,  Im upholding this complaint, Ill explain why.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy them
the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable and
proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was fair.
And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the loan
would have been approved if the checks had taken place. In reaching my decision
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. But CONC 5.2A.20R 
provides guidance as to the extent and scope of a creditworthiness assessment and the 
steps needed to satisfy the requirement that the assessment is a reasonable one, based on 
enough information and proportionate to, the individual circumstances of each case.
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation. This means UCL in 
lending to Miss B are required to carry out a reasonable assessment of whether she could 
afford to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused  so UCL needed to think about
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for
Miss B. This means it wasnt enough for them to only think about the likelihood that they 
would get their money back without considering the impact of repayment on Miss B.
Checks should be proportionate having consideration for the specific circumstances of the 
loan application. What constitutes a proportionate affordability check will generally depend 
on several factors such as the circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current
situation and whether there are any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty.
But there are factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should be for 
a given loan application. Consideration should be given to the amount, type and cost of 
credit thats being applied for. For example:
the consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher amount from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
This could mean a proportionate check could differ for the same borrower for different loan 
applications. So, Ive considered whether UCL in lending to Miss B had been thorough in the 
checks they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding to 
lend to her. UCL has shown that they used the information provided by Miss B in the application and 
considered her credit history. Form her credit history they determined shed:
 
a loan with a monthly repayment of £321 over 48 months 
a loan with a monthly repayment of £142 over 36 months 
a credit card/ store card with a balance of £1,257 and a credit limit of £1,200, this 
item of credit was being reported and one payment in arrears 
a credit card/ store card with a balance of £1,019 and a credit limit of £1,200 
a credit card/ store card with a balance of £960 and a credit limit of £1,000 
a credit card/ store card with a balance of £884 and a credit limit of £1,050 
a credit card/ store card with a balance of £771 and a credit limit of £800 
a bank account with a balance of £288 and a credit limit of £850 
a mail order account with a balance of £228 and a credit limit of £600 
Ive listened to the security call made with Miss B when she applied for the loan with UCL. 
She confirmed shed two loans, one taken out in January 2019 for £7,500 which had also 
been for consolidation, but she said she didnt get out enough and another consolidation 
loan in July 2018 for £4,041, Miss B wasnt asked anything further about this loan. She did 
say she intended to consolidate both. She also said shed consolidate two of her credit cards 
and use the balance remaining form the loan to reduce or settle her mail order accounts. 
During the call Miss B said she lived with family and contributed £100 towards her 
accommodation. She said she didnt gamble and didnt have any child care costs. 
UCL said they also verified Miss B had a monthly income of £1250. And from this 
information UCL assessed the loan as being affordable for Miss B.
But given the high value of the loan and indebtedness in comparison to Miss Bs income I 
dont think these checks were enough especially as Miss B had taken two loans for the 
purpose of consolidation within the previous 14 months, yet she still had four active credit 
cards, that exceeded or were close to their limit and a mail order account.
As I outlined above there arent any set lists for what would constitute proportionate checks, 
but I think Miss Bs bank statements would have given a better understanding of her financial 
situation. And Miss B has since provided these to UCL. Immediately I can see that there are 
gambling transactions, albeit a few, but Miss B had said she didnt gamble. And her 
spending on non-essentials was far higher than she declared in the security call. I can also 
see she was consistently using her overdraft facility and was being charged a daily overdraft 
fee. From Miss Bs credit history, it showed at the time of the loan that she was utilising £288 
of her overdraft facility. But again, in reviewing her bank statements prior to the loan she was 
usually using well above this figure, and at times was very near the limit of her £850 
overdraft facility and on occasion exceeding it. I think the bank statements show Miss B 
wasnt in control of her spending. And by lending further to her this continued her cycle of 
debt. 
I know UCL since receiving Miss Bs bank statements, has calculated Miss Bs income and 
expenditure over the two months prior to the loan being agreed. And taking all of her 
outgoings into account calculated her to have an average of around £190 disposable 
income. So, I agree there is an appearance that the loan is affordable. But Miss B had a 
history of getting loans to consolidate her debt but didnt fully utilise them for this, a history I 
can see she repeated again with the UCL loan. I know UCL arent responsible for Miss B not 
doing what she said she would, but I think UCL should have questioned why she needed a 
third consolidation loan within 14 months as I think this was a strong indicator of financial 
difficulty and a lack of financial management. And from looking at her credit history, information that was available to UCL and formed part of their assessment, there is little 
evidence shed used the proceeding two consolidation loans for the purpose she said she 
took them out for.
So, while the loan may have looked affordable, by reviewing Miss Bs financial situation, I 
dont think the loan was sustainable. I dont think UCL focussed on Miss B as a borrower and 
her specific circumstances. I dont think they carried out enough checks to determine 
whether Miss B could sustain the repayments. And I think if they had they should have seen 
the escalation of Miss Bs indebtedness. So, I think they acted irresponsibly in providing Miss 
B with the loan. 
Putting things right
Putting things right when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending isnt
straightforward. And Miss B has had the loan in question and used the funds. In these 
circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. So, I ask UK Credit Limited to:
remove any interest and charges applied to Miss Bs loan account from when it was 
opened; 
treat any payments that Miss B has made as a reduction of the principle amount, if 
this results in Miss B having paid more than what they were initially lent, then any 
extra should be treated as an overpayment and refunded to Miss B plus 8% simple 
interest on this amount from date of payment to date of settlement; 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then UK Credit Limited should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Miss B;
remove any adverse information on Miss Bs credit file in relation to this loan; and
remove the guarantors obligation under the agreement and remove any trace of the 
loan from the guarantors credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit Limited to take off tax from this interest. UK 
Credit Limited must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if they 
ask for one. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask UK Credit Limited to put things right for Miss B as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman