Complaint 
Mr S complains that Western Circle Limited (trading as Cashfloat) lent irresponsibly to him. 
Background 
Between March 2017 and September 2017, Mr S borrowed 10 loans from Cashfloat. The 
lending history is set out below: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 10/03/2017 16/03/2017 2 £500.00
2 20/03/2017 20/04/2017 3 £600.00
3 28/04/2017 04/05/2017 3 £350.00
4 07/05/2017 16/05/2017 3 £550.00
5 19/05/2017 20/06/2017 3 £400.00
6 02/07/2017 14/07/2017 2 £200.00
7 15/07/2017 19/07/2017 3 £450.00
8 22/07/2017 23/08/2017 3 £400.00
9 24/08/2017 21/09/2017 2 £200.00
10 24/09/2017 outstanding 4 £800.00
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in respect of loans 4 to 10. He said 
that it should have been clear to Cashfloat that Mr S could not sustainably repay loans 4 to 6 
and that the pattern of borrowing from loan 7 onwards was otherwise harmful. 
Cashfloat disagreed with that view and so the matter has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
My findings 
DRN-1715128Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Neither party disagreed with what our adjudicator said about loans 1 to 3. So I havent 
considered further whether Cashfloat was irresponsible to agree these loans. Although I 
have kept them in mind when considering Mr Ss wider circumstances for loans 4 to 10.  
By the time Mr S applied for loan 4, Cashfloat undertook a credit check. From the 
information contained in the resulting report, I can see that Mr S had 17 active credit 
accounts. In the preceding six months, he had opened 32 new accounts and taken out cash 
advances. Taking account of that information, I think it should have been reasonably clear to 
Cashfloat that Mr S had recently taken out a number of loans and that his borrowing wasnt to meet a short-term need. From the information provided, the situation appears to me to be 
similar in respect of loans 5 and 6. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of the lending history to see if there was a point at 
which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. If that was the case, Cashfloat shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think our adjudicator was right to say 
that this point was reached by loan 7. I say this because:
Cashfloat ought to have realised Mr S was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. He had taken out 7 loans in just over four months. So Cashfloat ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not he was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that his indebtedness 
was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ss first loan was for £500 and loan 7 was for £450.  At this point Cashfloat ought 
to have known that Mr S was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his 
income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr S was generally provided with a new loan very shortly after settling a previous 
one. 
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Cashfloat. Loan 10 was 
taken out around 6 months after Mr Ss first. And it was for a larger amount.  Mr S 
had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Cashfloat over an 
extended period.
 
I think that Mr S lost out because Cashfloat continued to provide borrowing from loan 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans borrowed was likely to have had negative implications on his 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
 
So Im also upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 6 and also in respect of loans 7 to 10. 
Cashfloat will need to take action to put things right.  
putting things right  what Cashfloat needs to do
Cashfloat shouldnt have given Mr S loans 4 to 10. It appears there is an outstanding 
balance on loan 10. If that is the case and Cashfloat has sold that debt, it must buy it back if 
it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt back, then 
it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results set out below: 
a) Cashfloat must add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
that has already been refunded; 
b) It must calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S which 
were considered as part of paragraph (a) from the date Mr S originally made the payments, 
to the date when the complaint is settled;c) Cashfloat must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld
outstanding loans and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they were repayments
of the principal on all outstanding loans. If that results in Mr S having made overpayments,
Cashfloat must refund those overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the
overpayments, from the date those overpayments arose, to the date the complaint is settled.
It must then refund the amounts calculated in paragraphs (a) and (b) and then move to
paragraph (e);
d) If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in paragraphs (a) and
(b) can be used to pay any balance remaining on the outstanding loans. If this results in a
surplus, that surplus must be paid to Mr S. If there is still an outstanding balance, Cashfloat
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S. It must not pursue outstanding
balances of principal it has already written-off;
e) Cashfloat must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr S credit file in relation to
loans 4, 5 and 6. The number of loans taken from loan 7 onwards means any information
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 7 to 10 must be removed from Mr
Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to deduct tax from this interest. It must give Mr
S a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding this complaint. Western Circle Limited , 
trading as Cashfloat, must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman