DRN-3629248
The complaint
Mr O complains about the advice given by Michael James, trading as West Country 
Financial (WCF) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme, the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension. He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr O is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr O.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Os employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Os employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
On 18 September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr O with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £225,080.14.
I understand Mr O first spoke to WCF, about advice regarding his BSPS pension, in 
September 2017. Information from WCF indicates Mr O was referred to it by another 
financial adviser.
WCF completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Os circumstances and objectives. 
Mr O was 46, married, with two children. He was employed full time and his household 
income was recorded as exceeding his outgoings. He had an outstanding mortgage of 
approximately £30,000 with a remaining term of roughly twelve and a half years. He also had 
a car loan to which he was paying £160 per month with about four years left to run. In 
addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr O was also a member of his employers new 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme.
WCF noted that Mr O hoped to retire at age 60. And said he expected to need an income of 
£15,000 per year in retirement. It said he was interested in potentially taking a tax-free lump 
sum from his pension benefits to clear any remaining debts. WCF recorded that Mr O had 
lost trust in his employers handling of the pension. His three main reasons for considering a 
transfer were recorded as being to take control of his pension  although it was noted that he 
had no investment experience  have access to a bigger lump sum and the flexibility to retire 
when he wanted to.
WCF also carried out an assessment of Mr Os attitude to risk. This was noted in some of 
the original notes as being cautious. The recommendation however referred to Mr Os 
natural attitude to risk as being balanced, or a six out of ten, with one being lowest risk 
and ten highest. But it had agreed that it was more appropriate to invest at a cautious 
balanced level, or a four out of ten. An internal review of the advice by WCF highlighted this 
inconsistency and that Mr Os original attitude was considered cautious.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
WCF has provided a copy of a suitability report, dated 13 November 2017, in which it 
advised Mr O to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension with a named provider 
and invest in the providers managed funds. The suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were that Mr O wanted to take retirement before age 65 without his 
pension being reduced, wanted the ability to pass his pension fund on to his family as a lump 
sum in the event of his death, preferred to have flexibility in terms of how he could take his 
benefits and had no confidence in his employers management of the pension. WCF said 
Mr O valued these things over the guarantees he was giving up. And so, it thought a transfer 
was suitable as it met his objectives.
Mr O complained in 2021 to WCF about the suitability of the transfer advice. WCF didnt 
uphold Mr Os complaint. It said the advice was suitable based on Mr Os objectives, it had 
given a full explanation of the reasons for this, and Mr O had proceeded clearly having 
understood the reasons for the advice.
Mr O referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. She didnt think Mr O was likely to 
improve on the guaranteed benefits he was giving up by transferring. And she didnt think 
transferring for the reasons WCF had said was in Mr Os best interests. She felt he couldve 
still met his objectives without giving up his guaranteed benefits and, if suitable advice not to 
transfer had been given, felt Mr O would likely have joined the BSPS2. So, she 
recommended that WCF compensate Mr O for any losses caused by the unsuitable advice 
and pay him £200 for the distress hed incurred. 
WCF disagreed. It said it wasnt clear that the Investigator had assessed the complaint on 
the right basis  as the requirements of it were to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice 
was suitable for Mr O, not guarantee it was in his best interests with the benefit of hindsight. 
WCF said the Investigator had placed too much weight on the growth rate required to match 
the benefits from the DB scheme (the critical yield) which was of limited relevance. And it 
said the discount rate which the Investigator had referenced wasnt something it was 
required to consider. It said it still believed that the advice was suitable, based on Mr Os 
circumstances, and said Mr O had made a fully informed decision to proceed with the 
transfer, which the Investigator hadnt considered, and which it felt was crucial. WCF also 
said that the BSPS2 was not a confirmed option at the time of the advice.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion. She made the point that WCFs 
role wasnt just to facilitate what Mr O mightve thought he wanted but was to provide 
objective advice. And she felt, although not confirmed, it was clear to the parties at the time 
of the advice that the BSPS2 was likely to proceed. As agreement could not be reached the 
complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of WCF's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
WCF says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice 
was suitable for Mr O. I agree that under COBS, WCF was required to take reasonable steps 
to ensure that its personal recommendation to Mr O was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1). But 
it was also required, under COBS 2.1.1R to ensure it acted in accordance with his best 
interests. And, as Ive mentioned above, additional regulations and guidance apply to 
advising on transferring out of DB schemes. These say that the starting assumption for a 
transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. And that a business should only have 
considered a transfer out of the scheme if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was 
in Mr Os best interests (COBS 19.1.6G). And having looked at all the evidence available, 
Im not satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
WCF was required to obtain a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report by the 
regulator. This included the calculation of critical yields. The regulator required WCF 
to calculate this and consider the cost of the guarantees being given up. So, I do 
think an analysis of the critical yield is a relevant consideration here.
The TVAS WCF has provided said that the critical yield was 7.66% to match the 
benefits Mr O would have been entitled to under the BSPS at age 65. Or, to match 
benefits the PPF wouldve paid from 65 the critical yield was 4.93%. The report also 
looked at the critical yields required to match the benefits Mr O wouldve been 
entitled to from age 60, as he had said during the fact-find this was when he hoped to 
retire. To match the BSPS benefits this was calculated to be 9.12% and to match 
what the PPF would pay it was 5.72%. 
There was no analysis of the benefits that Mr O couldve received under the BSPS2 and critical yields were not calculated in reference to this. And I think there shouldve 
been, as information about the benefits, not least the revaluation and escalation 
rates, were made available in the time to choose letters. WCF has argued that the 
BSPS2 may not have gone ahead. But I think it is overstating the chance of this. The 
restructuring of the BSPS had been ongoing for a significant amount of time by the 
point WCF gave advice and requested the TVAS. Actions had been agreed with the 
pensions regulator and carried out as scheduled  not least a lump sum payment 
into the BSPS which enabled the provision of improved transfer value quotations in 
September 2017. So, based on what had happened to that point, I think the relevant 
parties, not least the trustees, were confident the BSPS2 would go ahead. 
Given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to match the benefits 
it wouldve provided were likely to be between those of the BSPS and the PPF. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 
as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 
2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our 
website. WCF has said it was not required to consider these discount rates. But the 
regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB 
scheme with those payable under a personal pension, using reasonable 
assumptions. And the discount rates give a useful indication of what growth rates 
would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. And so, 
while WCF was not obliged to use the discount rate, it would, in my view, be a 
reasonable assumption to consider. And WCF was free to consider it.
WCF has referred to past performance of the recommended investment. But, as 
WCF is aware, this is no guarantee for future performance. At the time the regulators 
standard projection rates were 2%, 5% and 8% for low, medium and high returns 
respectively. And I consider those alongside the discount rates to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly 
over such a long period of time.
Mr Os attitude to risk was initially referred to as cautious. The suitability report 
referred to his attitude as actually being balanced but the parties having agreed on 
cautious balanced. But I note that an internal review of the advice instructed by 
WCF at the time suggested these references were incorrect given the earlier 
assessment of Mr O being cautious. Based on the attitude to risk questionnaire Ive 
been provided, I think the initial assessment of Mr O being cautious appears correct.
Even if though Mr Os attitude to risk was cautious balanced, considering this, the 
discount rates of 4.4% for 18 years to retirement (for retiring at 65) and 4.1% for 13 
years to retirement (retiring at 60) and the regulators middle projection rate, I think 
Mr O was always likely to receive pension benefits, at either age 65 or 60, of a lower 
value than those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS, the BSPS2 or the PPF. 
WCF has said that there were other reasons that meant a transfer was suitable for 
Mr O. And has referred to what Mr O indicated he was interested in and had a 
preference for. Ill go on to address these other reasons for transferring.  But Id also 
add that WCFs role wasnt that of wish fulfilment or to put in place what Mr O 
mightve thought he wanted when seeking advice. It was to give him objective advice 
about what was in his best interests.
WCF said that accessing tax-free cash at age 55 to clear his debts appealed to Mr O. 
But the level of debt he still had at the point he could take tax-free cash was likely to have been significantly less than was recorded at the time of the advice. Mr Os car 
loan was due to be repaid within four years of the advice  five years before he 
reached age 55. His mortgage, which was recorded as being on a repayment basis, 
would still have had roughly three years remaining to run. But the balance wouldve 
been significantly reduced by the repayments made in the meantime. 
Mr O also had the option to overpay and reduce his mortgage further  using either 
the funds freed up when the car loan was repaid or some of his disposable income. 
So, he may not have had any debts to repay at age 55. Even if though the balance 
on his mortgage wasnt already cleared in full, Mr O said he planned to continue 
working until age 60, so wouldve still received an income. And there was nothing to 
suggest that Mr O was struggling with or behind on repayments or that these 
wouldnt have continued to be affordable. So, I dont think he needed to clear this 
debt at age 55 and I dont think giving up his guaranteed pension benefits to reduce a 
debt that he could afford, was in his best interests.
WCF said Mr O expected to stop working at age 60 and wanted the flexibility to be 
able to take his pension benefits at his discretion without incurring reductions. 
Mr O couldve taken benefits under the BSPS2 or the PPF from age 60. It is true that 
these wouldve been subject to actuarial reductions. But that was to reflect the fact 
that benefits wouldve been payable for longer than if he waited to his normal 
retirement age. This reduction was not a penalty. And, as Ive already explained, 
Mr O was unlikely to be able to improve on the benefits hed have been guaranteed 
by the scheme from age 60 by transferring.
In addition, Id note that Mr O was only 46 at the time of the advice. Over 13 years 
from when he thought he would retire. Most people I think would generally aspire to 
stop working early. As Mr O may well have done. But a lot couldve changed in the 
time between the advice and him actually coming to retire. So, I dont think his plans 
were finalised.
I cant see that Mr O needed the ability to vary the income he received from this 
pension in retirement, even if he did retire from age 60. The expected annual pension 
the DB scheme would provide from 60 was less than the annual income he thought 
hed need in retirement. But Mr O was a member of his new employers DC scheme, 
in which he expected to build up additional pension benefits. And it is reasonable to 
expect hed have continued to build pension benefits, either through this scheme or 
with another employer if he moved roles, until he retired. So, he wouldve had these 
and his DB scheme benefits in retirement, to meet his needs. The DC scheme 
benefits wouldve been accessible flexibly. So, in my view, retaining his guaranteed 
DB scheme benefits as a solid base for his retirement income while using his DC 
scheme flexibly if necessary until he later received his state pension, was a more 
appropriate way to meet his needs than exposing his DB scheme to unnecessary 
risk. 
And in fact, the suitability report said that Mr O intended to use the proceeds of his 
new DC pension to meet his income needs entirely between age 60 and him 
receiving his state pension and expected them to be sufficient to allow him to do so. 
In which case I cant see that he had a genuine need for flexibility in terms of his DB 
scheme benefits.
WCF said Mr O could risk his DB pension, because he had the DC pension to meet 
his needs, and leave it invested. But by investing in line with his attitude to risk he 
was unlikely to improve his retirement benefits. And I dont think it was in his interests to put his DB scheme benefits at risk, for flexibility he didnt need. 
WCF said Mr O was interested in the lump sum death benefits of a personal pension, 
to ensure that a sum was left to his family, particularly his children, in the event of his 
death. But the priority here was to advise Mr O about what was best for his 
retirement. And the existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses 
pension, that couldve been valuable to his wife in the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr O drew in his lifetime. And, although it was noted 
that Mr O had an ongoing health condition, he was referred to in several of the 
documents as being in good health. So, the pension may not have provided the 
legacy that Mr O may have thought it would. 
The suitability report referred to WCF having considered life insurance as an 
alternative. And said that to provide cover equivalent to the CETV the premiums were 
£197.76 per month. But WCF has provided comparison quotations from the time that 
indicates whole of life cover was actually potentially available for much less than this. 
And there was the potential to explore insurance on a term assurance basis  which 
was likely to be cheaper. And basing a quote on the CETV also effectively assumed 
Mr O would pass away on day one following the transfer, which isnt realistic. 
WCF said Mr O declined the option of life insurance as an alternative to transferring 
as he felt moving his pension to provide this benefit was better than paying money for 
insurance. But I think the way information was presented about insurance was 
misleading. And if it had been explained that insurance was potentially obtainable for 
a much lower cost, and that the pension was unlikely to provide death benefits 
equivalent to the CETV, Mr O mightve been more inclined to consider this. And 
again, in any event, WCFs role wasnt that of an order taker. It was required to 
advise Mr O about what was in his best interests. And I dont think it can reasonably 
be said that giving up his guaranteed retirement benefits for alternative death 
benefits was in his interests.
WCF also said that transferring gave Mr O the control of his pension funds that he 
wanted. But I think Mr Os desire for control over his pension was overstated. I cant 
see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension 
funds on his own. And the recommendation seems to have been on the 
understanding he was going to take ongoing advice about how his pension was 
invested, at additional cost. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr 
O  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
I dont doubt that Mr O was likely to have been upset by what had happened with his 
pension to that point. Or that he had negative feelings about his employer and 
mightve thought moving his pension away from it was appropriate. I think that would 
have been a very natural emotional response to what had happened. But again, 
WCFs role was to give impartial, objective advice. Mr Os employer and pension 
scheme were not one and the same. And Mr O intended to continue in his job and 
was paying into a new DC scheme with his employer. So, the relationship may not 
have been as irretrievably broken down as suggested.
Mr O may have held concerns about the prospect of his deferred benefits entering 
the PPF. But there had been a number of key announcements that all pointed toward 
the BSPS2 being established as an alternative. Which was expected to provide better benefits than the PPF and still provide Mr O the option to transfer closer to 
retirement. But even if the BSPS2 hadnt happened, the PPF still provided Mr O with 
guaranteed income and the option of accessing his benefits early. Mr O was unlikely 
to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Os best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension.
WCF says that Mr O made an informed decision to transfer and that the Investigator did not 
have enough regard for this. So, Ive thought carefully about whether Mr O would always 
have looked to proceed with the transfer. I can see that WCF did give information about 
some of the risks involved in a transfer, when it made its recommendation. But ultimately, it 
advised Mr O to transfer. And, while he mightve entered the discussions thinking about 
transferring, I think he relied on that advice. I believe that if WCF, a professional adviser 
whose expertise he had been recommended, had explained why it wasnt in his best 
interests to transfer I think hed have accepted that advice.
As a result, Im upholding this complaint as I think the advice Mr O received from WCF was 
unsuitable.
Mr O had over 13 years before he reached the age at which hed indicated he might like to 
retire. But his plans were in any event unconfirmed. I don't think that it would've been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And 
by opting into the BSPS2, Mr O wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think, had he received 
suitable advice not to transfer, Mr O wouldve opted into the BSPS2. And I think WCF should 
compensate him on this basis.
WCF has said that it wasnt the firm that provided ongoing advice, so it isnt responsible for 
what has happened since the transfer. But if WCF hadnt advised Mr O to transfer, none of 
the subsequent investments wouldve happened. WCFs role was pivotal, since the eventual 
investments were fully reliant on the funds being transferred first. So, in my view, the entirety 
of any loss Mr O mightve incurred stems from WCFs unsuitable advice. So, I think holding 
WCF responsible for the whole of any loss represents fair compensation in this case.
Our Investigator recommended that WCF make a payment for the distress caused to Mr O. I 
accept that Mr O has likely been worried to find, when he discussed matters with his 
representative, that the advice might not have been suitable for him. And given the 
circumstances and uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice, I dont doubt he 
has been concerned. This wouldn't have occurred but for the advice that is the subject of this 
complaint. So, in the circumstances, I think the recommended award of £200 is fair and 
reasonable.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for WCF to put Mr O, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr O would most likely 
have remained in the DB scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been 
given. 
WCF must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
WCF should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr O and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what WCF 
based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr O has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Os 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, WCF should:
calculate and offer Mr O redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr O before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr O receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr O accepts WCFs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr O for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Os end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr O as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, WCF may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Os likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, WCF should pay Mr O £200 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Michael James, trading as West Country Financial to pay Mr O the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Michael James, trading as West Country Financial pays Mr O the balance.
If Mr O accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Michael James, trading 
as West Country Financial.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr O can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr O may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman