DRN-2490525
The complaint
Mr M complains that Moto Broking Limited mis-sold a motorcycle insurance policy to him. 
What happened
Mr M bought the policy on a price comparison website. A few days later his bike was written-
off in an accident. He wasnt happy with the insurers valuation of it (£2,200). Mr M thought 
Moto was at fault for that. His understanding when he bought the policy was that - should the 
bike be lost - the insurer would pay him the sum hed set out online when asked to estimate 
its value (£4,985). He thought if he was mistaken, Moto should have informed him of that. 
Moto told Mr M it only administered the policy and had no part in the sale.
 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think the policy had been 
mis-sold. He said there was no evidence that Moto had any contact with Mr M before the 
sale or that it had led him to believe the policy offered an agreed value for the bike. He 
pointed out that the policy documents made it clear that in the event of a vehicles total loss,  
only its market value - or the sum shown in the schedule, would be paid  whichever sum 
was lower. The investigator noted that Mr M had had to agree to everything set out in the 
policy documents online before he was able to buy it. 
Mr M didnt accept the investigators view about the mis-sale. And he raised another issue 
that hed complained about to Moto, which it had dealt with as a separate complaint. The 
investigator said we couldnt deal with that as part of this complaint. Mr M asked for a new 
complaint to be set up, but as he wanted the complaint about the mis-sale to be reviewed, it 
was passed to me.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Mr M has provided any evidence that Moto mis-sold the policy to him. It gave 
him no advice and there were no calls between Mr M and Moto before he bought the policy. 
Mr M was asked online to estimate the value of his bike. Thats standard industry practice, 
so Id be surprised if Mr M hadnt been asked previously to provide an estimate of any other 
vehicle he insured in the past. But asking a consumer to estimate what they think their 
vehicle may be worth doesnt mean an insurer will be tied to the valuation the consumer 
provides. I think there are obvious reasons for that - not least that some consumers will 
seriously overestimate their vehicles value, whilst others may underestimate it. Most motor 
insurance policies only offer market value cover. Agreed value policies arent common - and 
they normally cost more than market value policies.
Mr M may have misunderstood why the valuation question was asked  and it seems he 
assumed that he was buying an agreed value policy - but I dont think thats Motos fault. 
Before he was able to buy the policy, Mr M had to tick a box to say he agreed to the content 
of all the policy information that was available to him at that point. Even if a consumer 
decides not to read through all the documents, I think its reasonable to expect them to read 
a short policy summary if one is provided, as it will contain all the policys key facts. 
In this case, on the first page of the policy summary, theres a section headed Are there any 
cover restrictions? which is in bold print and has an exclamation mark in red next to it. I 
think the section is sufficiently highlighted to indicate that theres essential information in it. 
Directly under the main heading, it says The most the insurer will pay for loss or damage 
claims, is the market value of your motorcycle at the time of the loss. I think that should 
have been enough to alert Mr M to the fact that he was buying a market value policy. 
After buying the policy Mr M had access to the policy schedule. It says the market value will 
be payable in the event of the bikes loss - or the value shown in the schedule (Mr Ms 
estimated value for the bike) ....whichever is less. So Mr M had another chance to note the 
type of policy he had and what would happen should the bike be lost.
I dont think there was any way Moto could have known that Mr M believed he had an 
agreed value policy, so his expectation that it should have pointed out to him that he was 
mistaken is unrealistic, in my opinion.  
  
As I dont think Mr M can show that he was misled by Moto about the type of policy he was 
buying and that it mis-sold the policy to him, I cant uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman