DRN-2691617
The complaint
Mr A has complained Santander Consumer (UK) plc terminated his conditional sale 
agreement without proper reason.
What happened
Mr A took out a conditional sale agreement for a car in January 2020. A few months later 
whilst he was ill with Covid, he lent the car to a friend first ensuring there was proper 
insurance in place. He also told us hed contacted Santander to check he was allowed to let 
someone else drive his car.
His friend was stopped whilst driving the car and the car was seized by the police. Santander 
took possession of the car and terminated Mr As agreement. They then sold the car at 
auction and applied the proceeds to Mr As debt. Mr A complained this should never have 
happened. The police initially stated his friend was driving without insurance which was not 
the case.
Santander confirmed thered been a breach of Mr As agreement and they expected him to 
pay what was now owing. Mr A brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator believed that as the car was seized because it was being driven 
dangerously, then Santander were right to say Mr A had breached the agreement.
Mr A didnt believe this was fair and continued to believe hed been given conflicting advice. 
Hes asked an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly I appreciate Mr As frustration that Santander no longer seem to have copies of calls 
which he believes allowed him to lend his car to his friend. However I can confirm that this 
isnt crucial evidence as far as Im concerned. Im prepared to believe Mr A was told he could 
lend his car. I dont think thats the key issue here.
What is key  and theres no dispute about this as the police confirmed this in an email to 
Mr A  is that Mr As friend drove the car dangerously and at high speed. This led to him 
being stopped by the police and the car was seized. This runs directly contrary to clause 4.5 
of Mr As conditional sale agreement.
Im afraid to say that theres no doubt Santander were able to terminate the agreement as 
they did by sending Mr A a default notice in May 2020.
I know Mr A was first led to believe the seizure of the car was about lack of insurance. Im 
sure thats led to his frustration. Particularly as he was helping out a friend by allowing him to 
use his car during a period of his own illness and knowing his friend was a key worker. I 
sympathise with him but he was responsible for how his friend drove his car  which appears 
to have been dangerously  and this led to his car being seized.
I wont be asking Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given here, my final decision is not to uphold Mr As complaint against 
Santander Consumer (UK) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman