DRN-2086210
The complaint
Mr A complains that Arval UK Limited has charged him incorrectly, made unfair charges for 
parking fines and the car that was delivered was not the car he ordered. 
What happened
Mr A entered into an agreement with Arval in March 2019 to lease a new car. The car was 
delivered on 20 March 2019. Mr A says that the model of the car that was delivered is not 
the car that was agreed. Mr A explains that there were issues with the incorrect payments 
being taken for the car and he recalled the payments from his bank. This resulted in arrears 
on the account and a default notice was sent to an incorrect address. Mr A says he tried to 
sort this out, but errors continued. Mr A is also unhappy with the administration charges 
made by Arval in relation to parking fines.
Mr A has had ongoing mechanical issues and issues with the paintwork on the car. These 
matters have not been resolved to Mr As satisfaction and the car has been returned to 
Arval, the agreement has been cancelled, and Mr A has a new car.
Arval has explained that the incorrect agreement was initially entered on to its system which 
resulted in the incorrect payments being requested. It also sent a default notice to Mr As old 
address after it had been advised of Mr As new address. It has said that the car that was 
delivered was the correct car that was ordered and that the administration charges were fair 
and in line with the terms of the agreement. It said that it had not had a chance to deal with 
any of the complaints that Mr A was raising about the satisfactory quality of the car and so it 
didnt agree that this service could look into this aspect.
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint and thought that Arval should pay Mr A £150 to 
compensate him for the trouble and upset caused by the incorrect payments being taken 
and sending the default notice to the incorrect address. She thought that the correct car was 
delivered and that the payments for the parking fines were fair and reasonable. Our 
investigator explained that because Mr A hadnt raised the satisfactory quality complaint with 
Arval this service couldnt ask Arval to do anything about that complaint.
Arval agreed with the investigator but Mr A didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As complaint is about three different aspects and I will deal with each of them in turn. As 
the investigator has explained to Mr A, this service cant deal with the satisfactory quality 
part of Mr As complaint because Arval hasnt had a chance to respond to those aspects of 
his complaint. I appreciate that Mr A has been consistently raising issues with the dealership 
about the paintwork and noise in relation to his car, but he hasnt complained to Arval about 
these issues. Arval have now taken the car back from Mr A and cancelled the agreement. If 
Mr A has other complaints or losses that relate to this aspect, then he needs to raise these 
matters with Arval first and give them a chance to respond before this service can 
investigate.  
Incorrect car delivered.
Mr A explained that he originally obtained a quote for a Golf R310 but a Golf R300 was 
delivered. I can see from the order form that Mr A ordered a Golf R300. Before the car was 
delivered Mr A noticed the discrepancy and raised it in an email with the dealership. Mr A 
was keen to ensure he was getting the latest model. It was explained to him that the R300 
was in fact the newer model and the R310 was no longer in production. 
Mr A did not raise any other issue about this with the dealership and went on to take delivery 
of the car. In the circumstances, I think that Mr A received the car he ordered and was 
expecting and so I cant say that Arval did anything wrong here.
Admin charges for parking fines.
Mr A complains that he has been charged administration fees for a parking fine that was 
issued to him and later cancelled. I do understand why Mr A is frustrated about this 
especially where the fine was cancelled. But Arval did refund the administration charge for 
this fine. The terms and conditions signed by Mr A set out that Arval will charge for the 
administration involved in dealing with these matters and so I cant say that it has done 
anything wrong here.
Incorrect payments and default notice.
Arval has explained that initially the incorrect information was entered into its system and 
this led to the incorrect payments being claimed from Mr A. Mr A reversed these payments 
through his bank. This led to arrears on the account and the default notice being issued. I 
think that Arval did make errors in dealing with Mr As repayments and I can understand why 
Mr A took steps to reclaim the incorrect repayments. Mr A always intended to pay and this 
issue took a number of months to resolve. In the meantime Mr A was issued with a default 
notice to an incorrect address. I think that Arval should pay Mr A £150 to reflect the trouble 
and upset caused by these errors and the inconvenience caused to Mr A in trying to resolve 
the situation. 
My final decision
 My Final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Arval UK Limited should pay Mr A 
£150.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman