DRN-1895033
The complaint
Ms P says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a Current Account Plus account 
in October 2010 and a Tech pack in May 2016.
Ms P says that she did not agree to either of these products and that she was told that she 
had to take out the account in order to improve her credit rating and get an overdraft facility.
Ms P is being represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC).
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think the Current Account 
Plus account or the Tech pack had been mis-sold. Ms P disagreed, so the complaint has 
been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this case.
Having considered everything that has been provided, I dont think the Current Account Plus 
account and Tech pack were mis-sold. I will explain why.
Current Account Plus account 
Firstly I will consider whether Ms P was given a fair choice in taking out the account. I note 
that Ms P has indicated that she had held a fee free account prior to taking out this account 
so I think she wouldve been aware that free accounts were available in general and an 
option for her.
Ms P says her account was upgraded to the Current Account Plus account without her 
consent. But I think that it is more likely that Ms P did agree to the upgrade. I say this 
because we have a copy of a signed form in which Ms P agreed to the account upgrade. I 
note Ms P comments that she took out the account in order to get an overdraft and to 
improve her credit rating. But I cant see that she even applied for an overdraft facility in the 
years following the upgrade, or took out any credit with Barclays and I would expect 
applications for credit if she upgraded to get a better credit file. So overall, I think she took 
out the account in order to get the benefits that it came with rather than because she thought 
it was compulsory, or to improve her credit rating.
At the time the account was taken out it cost £5 a month and the main benefit that it came 
with was mobile phone insurance. I can see that Ms P has confirmed that she held a mobile 
phone at this time. So I think that it is likely why she agreed to the account.
I dont think that the Current Account Plus account was recommended to Ms P so Barclays 
did not need to ensure that the benefits that it came with were right for her. But it did need to 
provide Ms P with enough information to allow her to make this decision herself. In this 
instance I think that the mobile phone insurance, as it was the main benefit of the account, 
wouldve been highlighted to Ms P.
I accept that the remaining benefits may not have been fully explained to Ms P but I cant 
see anything specific that was not explained that I believe wouldve put her off agreeing to 
the Current Account Plus account. So overall I dont think that the Current Account Plus 
account was mis-sold.
I should add that in 2018 Barclays have records of a call with Ms P in which she is asked 
about whether she wanted to cancel the account and she explained that she wanted to keep 
it due to the benefits that it came with. This suggests that she found at least some of the 
benefits that the account came with useful.
I note that she later complained about her Current Account Plus but there are notes that 
suggest that this was due to the increase in cost of the account over the years rather than 
because the account was sold incorrectly in the first instance.
Tech pack
Firstly, I should highlight that the Tech pack was not sold to Ms P. What actually happened 
was in 2016 Barclays decided to change the products it offered and withdrew the Current 
Account Plus account and replaced it with an option to have a fee free current account with 
an optional Tech pack.
Barclays is entitled to change the types of accounts it offers its customers and to withdraw 
certain accounts. However, when taking these actions Barclays needs to notify its customers 
and explain the changes clearly. 
Barclays has provided copies of two letters it sent to Ms P  one before it changed her 
account, and one to confirm it had been changed. I note that the letters are personally 
addressed to Ms P at her current address. The first letter, in February 2016, gave Ms P 
information on the upcoming changes that would be happening on her account. The second 
page of the letter gave several options, including opting out of the change and choosing to 
have a fee-free account without a Tech pack. It gave Ms P the option of calling to make this 
change, or visiting a Barclays branch to do so. The second letter was sent in May 2016. It 
confirmed that Ms Ps account had been changed. And again, on the second page it 
highlighted that Ms P could remove the Tech pack if she wished to do so.
So I think that Barclays did enough to highlight that Ms Ps account was changing from a 
Current Account Plus account to a fee free current account with a Tech pack. And that it 
highlighted to Ms P that she could opt out of having this pack if she wished to do so. I cant 
see that she contacted Barclays to either opt out of the change, or query it. So I cant say 
that Barclays did anything wrong in relation to the changes that happened on the account or 
that it needs to refund the fees Ms P paid for the Tech pack since it was added to her 
account.
As such, taking everything into account I dont think that the Current Account Plus account 
was mis-sold or that Barclays did anything wrong in relation to the Tech pack. I therefore 
dont require Barclays to refund her the fees shes paid over the years.  
Finally, I can see that Ms Ps representative has explained that there was a breach of duty 
under S.32(2) for the Limitation Act 1980. However, that relates to the postponement of a limitation period because wrongdoing was deliberately concealed. But as I am required to 
consider whether the packaged account in question was mis-sold, and not whether a 
limitation period applies, the statute referred to is not relevant to my considerations in this 
case. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman