DRN-2980259
The complaint
Miss A complains that Santander UK Plc closed her account and wont release money held 
in the account to her. 
Miss A is represented by her brother, Mr B.
What happened
Miss A had an account with Santander. In March 2020, two payments of £2,000 and just 
over £10,000 were paid into the account. Following this, Miss A called Santander to make a 
transfer to her brother, Mr B for just over £12,000.
During the call, Santander asked Miss A about the credits. Miss A explained that she was 
employed by her brother, and that hed transferred the money to her account. And that she 
wanted to send the money back to him so that he could buy a car for her. Santander asked 
Miss A if this was the case, why Mr B hadnt just sent the money to himself. Miss A said 
shed have to ask her brother. She then explained that the money was her salary. Santander 
told Miss A that it wanted her to provide proof of her entitlement to the funds and blocked her 
account. 
On 19 March 2020, Miss A went into a branch where she spoke to the staff about the credits. 
Miss A told Santander that the credit of just over £10,000 was her monthly wage. She then 
corrected this and said it was actually the £2,000 credit. Santander asked Miss A some more 
questions and Miss A said that the £10,000 was actually her whole years salary. But she 
wasnt entirely sure. She told the bank that her wages had been given to her all in one go. 
But she wasnt able to provide an explanation for why this had occurred. Santander then 
asked Miss A if she had any wages slips to support her explanation. Miss A said she didnt.
On 8 April 2020, Santander called Miss A and told her what it needed her to provide to show 
she was entitled to the money. And that she could upload the documents remotely on the 
banks systems. Miss A gave the bank copies of ten wage slips, Mr Bs business account 
statements, contract of her employment and a payroll printout showing Miss A had been paid 
just over £1,000 each month since 22 May 2019. 
Santander werent satisfied that the paperwork Miss A had produced showed she was 
entitled to the funds. And thought that Miss As explanation about receiving a years salary 
contradicted the employment contract, and monthly wage slips. So, it didnt release the 
money to Miss A. And decided to close Miss As account. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss A brought her complaint to our service where an 
investigator considered it. Miss A said that her brother had been disorganised and hadnt 
paid her wages each month in line with her employment contract. So, hed made the one off 
payment after getting the approval from his accountant. The investigator said Santander 
hadnt done anything wrong when it had blocked Miss As account and asked her for 
information about the payments. So, he didnt uphold the complaint.  
Miss A disagreed. She wants the bank to release the money. And said that Mr Bs 
accountant had advised the payment to Miss A was legitimate and could be made as a lump 
sum payment. However, she wasnt able to provide any evidence from the accountant to 
support this as the advice had been provided over the phone to Mr B. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered all of Miss As submissions regarding her complaint, but Ill 
concentrate on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think it is the right outcome. 
account block
Ill deal first with the banks decision to block Miss As access to the payments made into her 
account in August 2018. As the investigator has already explained, Santander has extensive 
legal and regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to 
customers. And to fulfil these obligations they may need to review activity taking place on 
accounts and ask customers for information about payments  its entitled and obliged to 
carry out such checks to help safeguard both the bank and its customers from financial 
crime such as fraud. The terms of Miss As accounts also permit Santander to block 
payments, accounts and ask its customers for information. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Santander to block Miss As account and ask her for information about the two payments 
which had been paid into her account in March 2020. Santander has explained that this was 
its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Having looked at the activity on Miss As 
account statements I can see that the two payments were out of character. Miss A had not 
previously received any large payments and there were no other payments received from 
Mr Bs company such as her monthly wage  which according to Miss A shed worked for 
nearly a year at the time the credits were made into her account. 
Ive also listened to two call recordings of conversations Miss A had with Santander about 
the credit at the time. Miss A was asked direct questions about the source of the funds but 
seemed uncertain about the answers she gave the bank and wanted to refer to her brother 
for an explanation. Initially she said she couldnt provide any wages slips when the bank first 
asked her about the credits when she went into a branch. However, during the calls Miss A 
said she could provide these. Wage slips are normally generated each month or weekly 
depending on an employees contract. But Miss A only produced them after the bank asked 
for them, which I find unusual.
Theres also no plausible explanation for why Miss A would receive a years salary from Mr B 
and then want to transfer the funds immediately back to him. Miss As said that Mr B was 
going to use the money to buy her a car  if thats the case it doesnt make sense why Mr B 
didnt just transfer the money to himself instead of first transferring the money to Miss A. And 
I havent seen any evidence to support this planned purchase such as discussion/messages 
between Miss A and Mr B about buying a car. 
Miss A says Mr B was simply disorganised and had the approval of his accountant to make 
the one off payment  but Ive not seen any evidence to support this. The payment is at odds with the terms set out in Miss As employment contract, which stated Miss A would receive a 
monthly wage. I note too that the employment contract is dated May 2019, but Ive not seen 
any evidence to show when this was sent to Miss A, timesheets or hours that she worked. 
So, overall, I can understand why Santander had concerns about the payments and wanted 
to find out more about them. Whilst I accept this caused Miss A inconvenience, I cant say 
Santander did anything wrong when it blocked her account and asked her to provide 
information about the money paid into her account in March 2020. 
The crux of Miss As complaint is that she wants the money totalling just over £12,000 that 
was paid into her account released to her. It maybe that Miss A can now provide more 
information about the funds. But, in the circumstances, I can understand why Santander 
didnt consider Miss A had adequately explained her entitlement to the money. So, I cant 
say the bank has treated Miss A unfairly when it decided not to release the money to her. 
And I wont be asking the bank to do so. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Miss As account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Santander closed Miss As bank with 30 days notice. Having looked at all the evidence, in 
my view that wasnt unreasonable given the banks concerns about how Miss A was 
operating her account. Im satisfied that the bank acted in line with the account terms and 
relevant regulations. So, I cant say the bank has done anything wrong or treated Miss A 
unfairly when it closed her account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman