DRN-3975658
The complaint
Mr F complains Investment Funds Direct Limited trading as Ascentric (Ascentric) displayed 
the incorrect book costs for his holdings and this prevented him from trading sensibly. He 
also complained incorrect prices were shown for one of his holdings and the platform wasnt 
available for him for a period of two weeks.
What happened
Mr F instructed a financial advisor who used Ascentrics platform to trade his investments.
On 19 July 2020, Mr F asked for some of his holdings to be transferred between his three
different accounts and after this the book costs showed incorrectly. His advisor contacted 
Ascentric to complain on the basis Mr F was prevented from trading sensibly because he 
didnt know the true position of the profit and loss.
Ascentric responded to the complaint and accepted the book costs had been incorrectly
displayed. Initially, they offered Mr F £250 to resolve the complaint.
Further to this, Mr F also raised an additional concern that the platform was broken for him
for a period of two weeks during the time the book costs were displayed incorrectly. He said 
this meant he could not view his holdings. And he complained about the display prices being
lower than expected.
Ascentric issued two further responses covering these issues and said they hadnt done 
anything wrong. Mr F remained unhappy and asked our service to look into things. Ascentric 
agreed it was sensible for us to consider these issues together and increased their offer to 
£350. 
Mr F also referred a complaint he had previously raised about international share prices 
being displayed incorrectly on Ascentrics platform for over six months. A decision that this 
complaint was referred to us out of time has been made. So, Im unable to comment on this 
further.
 
I issued a provisional decision on 20 December 2022. I said: 
Incorrect book costs
Ascentric have already accepted the incorrect book costs were displayed for the 
investment holdings transferred between accounts at the end of July 2020. Theyve 
explained they showed the prices from the date of the transfer, rather than the 
original price when purchased.
Additionally, theyve accepted there was delay in rectifying the book costs. They were 
first notified on 29 July 2020 by Mr Fs financial advisors and whilst the matter was 
being rectified, they didnt provide clear timescales in respect of when Mr F could 
expect it to be fixed. Mr F has confirmed the book costs did not report accurately until 
mid-November 2020.
Ascentric offered £350 in recognition of the frustration and inconvenience caused. 
This wasnt accepted by Mr F. He said he held about £200,000 worth of investments 
on the platform and so the opportunity loss may have been significant. I do recognise 
the inconvenience and frustration suffered. Also, that it would have been harder to 
place trades because of the issues identifying the profit and loss, as well as capital 
gains. But Im not persuaded he was prevented from trading sensibly.
In response to the view, Mr F has said Ascentric told him they were unable to use the
information on the platform to calculate the book costs but thats what he is being told 
he could have done. Mr F has also said he had a ticket open about not being able to 
view the contract notes on his tablet (which he said he understood they support).
Firstly, I would note it would be unreasonable of me to expect Ascentric to ensure
compatibility of all the functions on its platforms with all devices. Theyve explained 
this is something their working on expanding, particularly in respect of the tablet Mr F 
was using.
Nevertheless, Im satisfied Ascentric made all details of trades placed and contract 
notes available through the platform. This information could be used to identify the 
original purchase price, which could then be used to calculate the profit and loss and 
capital gains tax on potential trades. However, I do appreciate this would have been 
more inconvenient for Mr F. He also appointed a financial advisor. For example, Ive 
seen evidence the financial advisor did contact Ascentric about a potential trade in 
August 2020.
I can see from the evidence Mr F contacted Ascentric, and his financial advisor also
contacted them on his behalf. Mr F has confirmed the advisors time amounted to
approximately £1,000. Ascentric said they wouldnt normally look to cover this cost 
but might consider it. Im not able to comment on this as my role is to consider the 
impact to Mr F, and Ive not been provided with evidence to show these costs have 
been passed on to Mr F. But Ill consider anything else Im provided.
Overall, Ascentric displayed incorrect book costs and took a significant amount of 
time to rectify this. This caused Mr F frustration and took up his time to deal with it. Ill 
come back to how they should put things right below.
Platform availability
Ive seen an email Mr F sent to his financial advisor where he confirmed he had told
Ascentric how to fix the problem with the platform and after 20 days he could view his
investments. I understand he could only view a blank screen. I appreciate this would 
have been frustrating for Mr F who wanted to use the platform. Additionally, Ive 
reviewed correspondence from July 2020 where Mr F was asked if he had tried 
clearing his cache and logging in on another device/browser. Ascentric asked him 
twice because they couldnt locate his reply.
However, based on the evidence Ive seen I cant conclude Ascentric were 
responsible for a fault which prevented Mr F from viewing the platform. Ascentric 
recognise there are some compatibility issues with certain devices which theyre 
working on. Ascentric have also confirmed with their IT department that there were 
no unexpected errors or downtime within the period described by Mr F. They also 
have a recommended device and browser for viewing the platform.Having reviewed the evidence Ive received, Im not persuaded Ascentrics service 
was unreasonable here as the evidence isnt sufficient for me to conclude there was 
a issue with the platform caused by Ascentric.
Incorrect Price
In October 2020, Mr F complained the price for his Ceres Power holding was wrong. 
His financial advisor called on 5 October 2020 to query the display price because it 
differed from the live price. Mr F was concerned hed be unable to make trading 
decisions.
Ive reviewed Ascentrics response to Mr F in which they explain how the price is 
displayed. They said Ceres Power was an equity share traded on the London Stock 
Exchange electronically. They went on to say the closing price is set in one of two 
ways.
Firstly, there is a closing auction where market participants can put in orders for the 
closing price. If there are sufficient orders for the auction to result in a trade, the price 
of that trade will determine the official closing price for the stock for that day.
Secondly, Ascentric explained if there arent sufficient orders for the action to result in 
a trade, the official closing price is determined as the mid-price of the bid/offer spread 
at the end of the auction period.
Ascentric have confirmed they display the mid-price by calculating the average of the 
bid and offer prices received via a daily feed from their data vendor. In their response 
to Mr F, they also provided a table with information of the most recent prices for 
Ceres Power and confirmed they do not provide a live feed for anything exchange 
traded.
Ascentric also explain in their terms and conditions that the prices of assets 
displayed should only be used as an indicative price and they will price Exchange 
Traded Instruments at mid-market price as per HMRC guidance (9.2).
Ascentric have further explained that the price hadnt been updated when the 
financial advisor called on 5 October 2020. Theyve said this was because they set a 
tolerance level for pricing data received from the vendor. The mid-price exceeded 
this tolerance level, so it was necessary for it to be manually verified and the previous 
active price was displayed until verification.
Having considered this, Im not persuaded this meant Ascentrics service was 
unreasonable, and Id note its not unusual for platform providers to implement these 
types of checks before displaying prices.
Having reviewed the information, Im satisfied Ascentrics service has been 
reasonable here. When Mr F raised concerns, they sought to explain how they 
calculated their display prices and Im satisfied this is in no way unusual. The 
evidence doesnt persuade me Ascentric displayed incorrect prices. Moreover, they 
dont display the live prices on their platform, so the prices are only intended to be 
indicative as described in their terms and conditions.
Putting things right 
Ascentric have offered Mr F £350 compensation. I appreciate he didnt agree this 
reasonably reflected the impact of their service failings. I would assure Mr F that I do recognise the inconvenience and frustration he experienced because of the incorrect 
book costs. However, Im satisfied this is an appropriate amount of compensation in 
the circumstances.
I also want to note that this isnt to be considered a penalty for Ascentric and it is 
outside of our remit to take punitive measures against businesses. It is also not 
intended to reflect Mr Fs personal day rate as this isnt in line with our approach.
I gave both parties the opportunity to comment before I proceeded to make a final decision 
on the complaint. Ascentric confirmed they had nothing to add and accepted my decision.  
Mr F didnt agree with what I set out. In summary, he said: 
His financial advisor spent time (which amounted to about £1,000 in professional 
fees) in trying to get the book costs corrected. This could be checked with his advisor 
and reflects the difficulty in placing trades. 
The £200,000 was the total amount of tradeable assets with the incorrect book costs 
(as opposed to the total value of investments held on the platform). 
The shares have been traded over many years and sometimes they were sold and 
repurchased. So, it would be very difficult (if at all possible) to work out the book 
costs from scratch. It might have taken an hour or more to calculate the position of 
one trade, particularly when navigating a system which wasnt very easy to use. 
Ascentric agree to provide a platform with useful up to date information and its not 
reasonable to say a client could recalculate all of the information (going back over ten 
years) because the information they supplied was wrong and they were unable to fix 
it within the statutory time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion I previously set out.
I accept what Mr F has said about his advisors fees and the difficulties in trading. Ive seen 
some correspondence between his advisor and Ascentric which also demonstrates the 
difficulties in trading and getting the issues resolved. I also agree it took Ascentric too long to 
put things right. Moreover, I have also addressed the difficulties Mr F would have had trading 
himself. Im satisfied Ive appropriately considered these issues and theyve been addressed 
as set out above. 
I also acknowledge what Mr F has said about the £200,000 and I apologise for the confusion 
here. But Im satisfied this point does not materially change the reasons I previously outlined 
for reaching my decision.  
Putting things right
Ascentric should pay Mr F £350 compensation for the reasons set out above. This is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that Investment Funds Direct Limited 
trading as Ascentric should pay Mr F £350 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman