DRN-1553049
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that they were mis-sold a Select Added Value Account (SAVA) by 
Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C held a fee free account with Lloyds from before 1997.
Mr and Mrs C upgraded to a Select Added Value Account (SAVA) which incurred a monthly 
fee in September 1997.
Mr and Mrs C say the SAVA was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and decided that the SAVA wasnt 
mis-sold. Mr and Mrs C disagree so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
In my view, I dont think Mr and Mrs C lost out when they were sold the SAVA and Ill explain 
why.
Mr and Mrs C say they were pressured into taking the SAVA and didnt feel they had the 
choice of having a fee free account. And they say the SAVA wasnt suitable for them.
So, I need to consider firstly whether Mr and Mrs C were aware the SAVA was optional and 
whether they were given a clear choice in taking out the account.
Lloyds has provided evidence that Mr and Mrs C had previously had a fee free account. And 
whilst I dont doubt their honest recollections, I think its more likely than not Mr and Mrs C 
were aware in September 1997 that both Lloyds and other banks and financial institutions 
offered continuing fee free bank accounts. I say this because they were widely advertised in 
a competitive market. And if Mr and Mrs C hadnt wanted to pay a fee for an account, I think 
they would have questioned what they were being offered and sought an alternative without 
a fee elsewhere.
So, I think Mr and Mrs C were aware they had a choice and chose to take out the SAVA.
Lloyds says it advised Mr and Mrs C to take out the SAVA. So, Lloyds needed to provide Mr 
and Mrs C with enough information about it to make an informed choice. And in 
recommending the SAVA, it also needed to take adequate steps to ensure that the SAVA 
was a reasonable fit for Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time.
The SAVA cost £3 a month and contained a range of benefits including payment card 
protection, purchase protection, home shopping service, commission free travellers 
cheques, discounts on new cars and extended warranty. And it offered a fee free and no 
interest overdraft of up to £50.
I dont know what Lloyds said or what information it gave Mr and Mrs C about the SAVA, but 
I dont have any evidence to show these benefits would not have been of interest to them. 
Lloyds has provided evidence Mr and Mrs C benefitted from a claim on the car breakdown 
service and from enhanced savings and lending rates when these benefits were later added 
to the account. So, they seem to have been aware of the SAVAs benefits and they had 
continued with the account even though they could have closed it at any time. So, I dont 
have evidence to show that the account was unsuitable for them as I would need, if I were to 
uphold their complaint on this point.
So, in my view Mr and Mrs C knew they had a choice when they took out the SAVA and they 
chose to take it out. I think its more likely than not that the SAVA was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs C. And there was no information that they didnt receive from Lloyds that would likely 
have put them off taking them it out. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman