DRN-3755879
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made 
on his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr M had an accident whilst driving his sisters car. He and their mother were named drivers 
on her policy. Mr M said both drivers agreed to repair their own cars. But the other drivers 
insurer made a claim to Advantage and it opened a claim. Mrs M described the accident 
circumstances to Advantage. She arranged for the car to be repaired and a courtesy car to 
be provided. Advantage told her a policy excess of £300 would be payable, but this should 
have been £495 as Mr M had been driving. 
The repairer tried to return the repaired car, but Mr M declined to pay the policy excess as 
he hadnt been told about this. And the repairer was unhappy with the state of the courtesy 
car. Mr M had another accident driving the courtesy car. So Advantage said the total payable 
was two £495 policy excesses for two claims and £80 for valeting the courtesy car. 
Mr M was unhappy that he had to pay the excess and that Advantage settled the first claim 
as split liability. Advantage later agreed to reduce the first excess to £300 in keeping with 
what it had told Mrs M, it waived a £20 fee and it paid Mr M £250 compensation. But Mr M 
remained unhappy. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Advantage had told Mrs M that the policy excess would be payable. She thought this had 
been correctly calculated. She thought the repairer had reasonably charged a fee for 
valeting the courtesy car. She thought Advantage had settled the first claim in keeping with 
the policys terms and conditions, as it was entitled to do. And she thought Advantages 
redress was more than fair and reasonable. 
Mr M replied that he remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to be reviewed, so its 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has raised numerous concerns about the role, powers and impartiality of our service. 
But it isnt my role to consider or respond to these concerns. My role is to consider Mr Ms 
complaint about the service he received from Advantage, taking into consideration the 
available evidence and relevant laws to reach an outcome that is fair and reasonable. 
Mr M was unhappy that he wasnt held not at fault for the first accident. He said the other 
driver had run a red light at a roundabout. And he thought Advantage should have visited the 
site as part of its investigation. 
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr M the same as someone else in his position. 
Im satisfied that Advantage is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr M 
to take over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr M has to follow its advice in 
connection with the settlement of a claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is 
a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual.
Mr M thought Advantage wasnt entitled to decide how to settle the claim without his 
approval. But, as Ive said above, in keeping with the policys terms and conditions, agreed 
with the policy holder when the policy was taken out, Advantage doesnt require Mr Ms 
approval when deciding how to settle a claim. 
I can see that the only evidence that Advantage had to consider when investigating the claim 
was the drivers versions of events and their diagrams. Advantage considered these and the 
damage caused to the cars and thought the accounts were equally plausible. There were no 
independent witnesses and no CCTV or dashcam footage available. Mr M thought 
Advantage should have visited the site. But I think this would be unusual in such 
circumstances. I think insurers would rely on online images to review the location of an 
accident. 
I think Advantage reasonably reviewed the available evidence and thought it supported both 
parties versions of events. So I think it reasonably settled the claim as split liability, as its 
entitled to do by the policys terms and conditions. 
Mr M was unhappy that a claim was set up by Advantage without his approval. But Im 
satisfied that Advantage is required to set up a claim when notified by another insurer. I can 
see that it then notified the policy holder and asked for further information. 
Mr M said it should have contacted him, not his sister or mother, about the claim. But I think 
its reasonable for Advantage to contact the policy holder. And I can see that Mrs M, a 
named driver, responded on her behalf. So I cant say that Advantage acted incorrectly.
Mr M said his account wasnt asked for. But Mr M has also complained to us that he told 
Advantage about the accident:
I have stated this numerous and countless times including in my accounts and diagrams but 
have been ignored.
And I can see from Advantages file that it asked Mr M directly for his version of events and 
he provided this over the phone. So I cant agree that he wasnt asked for his version of 
events and that this wasnt reasonably considered. 
Mr M said he wasnt told that an excess fee would be payable or when he would need to pay 
it. He thought an arrangement to pay the balance should have been agreed. 
But I can see that Advantage told Mrs M that an excess was payable following repairs. And 
this was correctly stated in the policy documents and in the letter sent to Miss M when the 
claim was set up. I cant require Advantage to agree a repayment plan for this. But I can see 
that one was agreed directly between Mr M and the repairer. 
Mr M said he shouldnt be held accountable for the second accident as the courtesy car had 
a fault, which hed pointed out to the repairer. Mr M said the car had rolled back into a 
stationary car due to the fault. But I havent seen any evidence, such as a photograph of the 
dashboard warning light, to support this. The garage said the car was new and immediately 
taken out by another consumer without any concern. So I cant say that Advantage shouldnt 
hold Mr M at fault for this accident. 
Mr M thought the valeting cost wasnt justified. He said hed already had the car valeted and 
any remaining marks could have been easily removed. But I think if this had been so, then the professional valeting hed paid for would have removed the marks. So Im satisfied this 
charge was justified. 
Advantage agreed that there had been failings in its level of service. It said the incorrect 
excess shouldnt have been provided, that the policy shouldnt have been cancelled due to 
non-provision of information about changes, that calls could have been handled better and 
communication could have been better.
To put things right, it charged Mr M £300 for the first policy excess, rather than the £495 
stated in the policy documents. It reinstated the policy and waived its £20 fee for making 
changes. And it paid Mr M £250 compensation for his trouble and upset. I think thats very 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And I dont require Advantage to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman