DRN-4048819
The complaint
Mr D complains about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Prudential Home Insurance 
(UKI) handled his claim on his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D had home insurance with UKI. In 2020 he made a claim for subsidence. It accepted the 
claim and investigated the cause. This was identified as some trees which were eventually 
removed.
In the time up until January 2022 the claim progressed slowly, and Mr D wasnt happy with 
some of the work carried out, or that his property had stabilised. He made some complaints 
during that time. In January 2022 UKI responded to his complaint agreeing to carry out a 
further six months monitoring, taking readings every four weeks.
However by the end of the year Mr D wasnt happy with how the monitoring had been carried 
out. He said it had been delayed at the beginning and he hadnt received four week updates 
as promised.
He made a complaint which UKI upheld. It offered £350 compensation to apologise for the 
delays. However Mr D didnt think this was enough, so he brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought UKI should offer an 
additional £150 compensation due to the impact the matter had had on Mr D. 
Mr D accepted our investigators outcome, however UKI didnt. It said it thought the £350 
compensation already offered was enough for the short delay it had caused. It asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has made a number of complaints throughout this claim, which he hasnt escalated to 
this service and is now out of time to do so. That means as part of this decision I can only 
consider issues raised in his most recent complaint, responded to by UKI in December 2022. 
And I cant consider the issues included in the complaint response issued in January 2022. 
However, while I cant consider events before January 2022, I have taken regard of the claim 
journey before this date. As I consider the context of these events to have an impact on the 
appropriate outcome of this complaint. 
UKI has accepted that it caused some delays to the monitoring at Mr Ds property. And that 
this has caused a delay to confirming whether his property is stable and move on to the 
resolution of his claim. 
The additional monitoring was agreed in response to a previous complaint from Mr D. The 
letter stated:
This monitoring will last for a period of, at most, six months and well review it monthly. If this 
confirms the floor slab is stable, then well be happy to move to repairs. If it doesnt, well be 
able to decide on the most appropriate next steps 
The letter was issued on 21 January 2022. So I think it reasonable for Mr D to assume that 
UKI would be in a position to move to the next stage of repairs by around July or August that 
year.
However I can see from the notes and timeline provided by UKI that there was an initial 
delay in the monitoring starting. And it didnt begin until the end of March. Further, at this 
stage monitoring didnt include a point on the kitchen floor, which was one of Mr Ds key 
concerns. And this wasnt added until July 2022.  
Additionally, Mr D was told monitoring results would be available every four weeks. And I 
can see UKIs comments in their notes and emails from the case that The promise of every 
4 weeks isn't feasible and shouldn't have been made. So its clear it didnt appropriately 
manage Mr Ds expectations when laying out how it would proceed in its final response of 
January 2022. 
Based on this, I think UKI has caused around five months of delays during this period. It said 
in its final response that monitoring would take around six months, but due to delays by its 
contractors, this wasnt completed until the end of the year. 
Mr D had already dealt with a difficult claim that had been ongoing since 2020. And this 
series of monitoring had been in response to one of his complaints. How long the monitoring 
takes also dictates when the next steps in the claim can be taken. So this five month delay 
meant that he had to wait more time to get a resolution to the claim. 
Further, due to the errors and delays, I can see Mr D had to contact UKI more times than he 
should have done. This would have been distressing and inconvenient. And, due to the 
issues he had experienced already in the claim, I think this would have had a more 
significant impact on Mr D. 
Mr D has also explained about the impact the matter has had on his wifes health. And I can 
understand this would have made the situation even more distressing. UKI has said it wasnt 
aware of his wifes conditions, and Ive not seen any evidence that it was made aware. 
However it was aware that Mr D had already had a difficult claim journey and that this 
remedy was as part of a complaint response. So Id expect it to be aware that any further 
issues would likely have a great impact on Mr D.
Based on this I agree with our investigators recommendation that UKI should pay an 
additional £150 compensation to make a total of £500 to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited  
trading as Prudential Home Insurance to pay an additional £150 compensation, bringing the 
total to £500 for this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman