DRN-4210942
The complaint
Mr V complains administration errors by Pet Protect Ltd meant a lifetime pet insurance policy 
he had taken out was cancelled by the insurer. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known by both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that the complaint 
should be upheld. I do so for the following reasons:
Mr V correctly entered his email when applying for the policy. Im satisfied therefore 
an error by Pet Protect, be it system or human, caused this to be changed. The 
impact of this was the insurer (N) cancelled the policy as Mr V did not respond to a 
renewal invitation and communications to update billing information. 
Mr V sourced alternative insurance for his pet, at a higher price. Im satisfied had he 
received the renewal notice and other communications he would have acted upon 
them, and his pet would have had continuous lifetime cover with N.
N has offered to reinstate the policy upon payment of outstanding premiums. It was 
Pet Protects error the policy was cancelled in the first place, and Mr V has paid a 
higher amount for cover with an alternative insurer in the meantime. Therefore, I think 
it would be reasonable for Pet Protect to pay the outstanding amount to N for the 
policy to be reinstated. It should then also reimburse Mr V any difference in premium 
between that amount and what he has been paying in the interim plus any 
cancellation charge he may pay. It should add 8% simple interest per annum on any 
amount it pays to Mr V. 
If, for whatever reason N now refuses to honour the offer it made to reinstate the 
policy, Pet Protect should make a payment of £4,200 to Mr V to compensate him for 
the current and future cost of the cover hes since taken out with another insurer. 
Premiums for cover will vary for a number of reasons and Im satisfied this amount 
more likely than not accounts for those and is a fair reflection of the financial loss to 
Mr V. 
Mr V has been caused trouble and upset by Pet Protects error and I think it should 
pay him £250 compensation to reflect the impact it has had on him. 
Putting things right
To put things right Pet Protect should do the following:
Arrange for N to reinstate Mr Vs Pet Protect lifetime policy back to the date of cancellation, 
as per Ns offer to do so.
Pay any premiums due to N for the period Mr Vs policy was cancelled. Pet Protect should 
then refund Mr V any difference between the total amount payable to N during this time and 
the total premium Mr V paid for his other policy, plus any cancellation charge he may pay. It 
should add interest at 8% simple per annum on any amount paid to Mr V from the date Mr V 
made the first payment to the alternative insurer to the date of settlement.
If, for whatever reason, N now refuses to honour the offer it made to reinstate the policy, Pet 
Protect should alternatively make a payment of £4,200 to Mr V to compensate him for the 
current and future cost of the cover hes since taken out with another insurer.
Pay Mr V £250 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Vs complaint against Pet Protect Ltd. I direct it to put things right as I have set 
out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman