DRN-3174467
The complaint
Miss C has complained about the support Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco 
Bank) gave her with her credit card account, when she was going through a period of 
financial difficulty. 
What happened
Miss C had a credit card account with Tesco Bank. In March 2020, at the start of the Covid-
19 pandemic, she contacted Tesco Bank as she had just become unemployed. She was 
granted a three-month payment holiday, which was later extended by a further three months. 
In September 2020, she contacted Tesco Bank again. She explained that although she was 
working again, her income was less than it was prior to the pandemic. Miss C enquired 
about a persistent debt paydown plan. However, Tesco Bank said that she wasnt eligible as 
she hadnt been in persistent debt for 36 months. 
Miss C completed an income and expenditure form. Following this she was offered either a 
six-month interest free plan on her card or the option to default the account. Miss C says she 
declined both options as she didnt want any negative impact on her credit file. She says she 
asked for alternative options such as a reduced interest period but that this wasnt put 
forward.
She raised a complaint, but Tesco Bank say that they acted fairly and responsibly and made 
it clear that any repayment plan would need to be reported to the credit reference agencies 
(CRAs). Our investigator looked into it and he didnt think that Miss C had been treated 
unfairly. He said that the options presented were reasonable and that Tesco Bank has a 
responsibility to report accurate information to the CRAs. 
As Miss C remained unhappy, the case was passed to me to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
I sympathise with the position that Miss C found herself in. From her account history, I can 
see that she was managing her card well until March 2020 and the start of the pandemic. It 
was after this point, when Miss C says the contract she had been working on wasnt 
renewed, that the account got into difficulty. 
I think that Tesco Bank treated her fairly at this point and in line with the FCA Covid-19 
guidance that came out at that time. They gave her a three-month payment holiday and then 
extended it by a further three months, when Miss c requested it. 
At the end of this period, Miss C is correct that she was entitled to some tailored support 
from Tesco Bank, as her income had not recovered to the level it was before. Despite     
Miss C securing a new contract of employment. 
Miss C completed a detailed income and expenditure form with Tesco Bank, and it was clear 
from this that her monthly disposable income was not enough to maintain the required 
repayments on this account. But Tesco Bank offered Miss C an option of a six-month 
interest free plan to get the account back on track. Miss C has confirmed she rejected this as 
she didnt want to enter into any arrangement that would have had a negative impact on her 
credit file. She has stated that this is because she worked in financial services and she felt it 
might impact her career opportunities. 
However, Tesco Bank are required to report accurately to the CRAs. Any rewrite of the 
original arrangement to pay, would normally result in reporting of it to the CRAs. Miss C has 
said that she would have liked a longer interest-free period or a period of reduced interest. 
However, these too would have meant reporting to the CRA of an amended arrangement to 
pay. Based on what she has said about not wanting anything on her credit file regarding this, 
I am satisfied she would not have accepted either of these options in this case. She has said 
she wanted a persistent debt plan, but I am satisfied that she wasnt eligible for that. 
Miss Cs account was on a payment holiday between April and October 2020. She has said 
that charges took her over the account limit. However, only interest accrued during this 
period and no further fees or charges were applied. 
In summary, whilst Miss C was entitled to tailored support after her payment holiday, she 
had confirmed that she did not want anything that might impact on her credit file. Whilst it 
might have been fairer to offer Miss C some alternative arrangements, I am satisfied that she 
wouldnt have taken them as they would have needed to have been reported to the CRAs. 
As would any amended arrangement to pay. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman