DRN-3690313
The complaint
Mr B makes a number of complaints about The Co-operative Bank Plc following an attempt 
to pay an account balance.
What happened
Mr B says he switched his bank account from The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) and had 
an existing overdrawn balance. He says Co-op wrote to him about the balance telling him 
that he could make an online payment to clear the balance. Mr B says he attempted that 
payment method, but the payment was returned and was later told that wasnt a payment 
option. He says Co-ops letter was not clear and was inaccurate. Mr B says his credit file 
has been affected and interest has been added to the account balance.
Co-op says it sent Mr B a number of letters about the overdrawn balance. It accepts one 
of its letters on 10 June 2021 told Mr B that he could make a payment online, but the 
same letter went on to explain that when an account switch had been made, as in this 
case, that such an option was not possible. Co-op says a number of payment options 
were available to Mr B and it offered to take a payment from him when he called it about 
his complaint in July 2021. It says it sent default letters to Mr B in August 2021 and that 
Mr B repaid the balance on 20 September 2021.
Mr B says he asked Co-op to write off the balance of about £1,300 and says his offer 
to settle was fair but he didnt receive a response. He says Co-op inaccurately 
reported information on his credit file in August and September 2021 despite repaying 
the balance and has reported his account as being open as at December 2021.
Mr B had brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it in part. The 
investigator accepted Co-ops letter was slightly confusing but thought a number of other 
letters had been sent by Co-op about the payment methods. The investigator thought 
the Co-op was entitled to send the default letter and thought the timings contained within 
it were correct.
The investigator thought the late payment marker should be removed for September 2021 
and that the account should have been closed. He recommended Co-op pay £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and says if the correct information had been provided then 
he would have repaid the balance. He says Co-op ignored him and has caused 
significant inconvenience. He also says Co-op should compensate him in line with his 
professional hourly rate for about £560 and should pay compensation for the emotional 
toll at £2,000.
Co-op hasnt responded to the investigators view.
My provisional view
I issued a provisional view on this complaint and said that I came to the provisional view that 
I didnt think that Co-op should pay the £100 compensation as recommended by the 
investigator and that I didnt intend to uphold this complaint.
I said I was satisfied that this was Mr Bs account and that he switched it to a different 
bank. And that he was responsible for repaying the overdrawn account balance. I could 
see that Co-op sent Mr B a number of letters about the balance and told him that he 
should repay it before the account switch was made. I thought on balance that Co-op 
would have been entitled to charge interest on the balance in line with agreed account 
terms and conditions.
I looked carefully at Co-ops letter of 10 June 2021 and I accepted the letter told Mr B that 
he could make a payment via a variety of different methods that included online banking. 
But I also saw that the letter made clear the options available if a switch had been made 
as here which didnt include that option. So, I didnt think Co-op misled Mr B and I would 
have expected Mr B to have read Co-ops letter which I thought made the payment 
methods clear if a switch has been made. I didnt think it clear why Mr B didnt simply 
make the required payment via a different method in any event when it ought to have been 
clear that online banking was not a payment option.
I listened to the telephone call between Mr B and Co-op on 5 July 2021. And I was 
satisfied that Mr B explained during the call that he had missed that part of the letter 
dealing with payment options after an account switch. I said I cant fairly hold Co-op 
responsible for Mr B not appreciating that when I had made clear that I find the 
information was displayed within the letter as well as other payment options provided in 
other letters. I was also satisfied that during the call Mr B was given the option of making 
a payment on that call, but he chose not to do so despite being told the balance was the 
same as when he attempted to pay some weeks before. And that Co-op gave Mr B the 
option of calling the complaint handler direct if he wished to avoid any call wait times. I 
found it was Mr Bs choice not to make the payment until September 2021.
I appreciated that the investigator says that Co-op shouldnt have recorded a missed 
payment marker for September 2021 as the payment was made on 20 September 2021. I 
said its not clear when Co-op reports such information to the Credit Reference Agency, 
and I said I would like it to comment on that point before my final decision. I accepted that 
Co-op may say that for the significant part of September 2021 there was a late payment 
and so the information is correct but that is something I said I will re-consider. I also made 
clear that Mr B ought reasonably to have repaid the balance far sooner in any event. I 
said I would also look at the question of the account being still open in December 2021 
when Co-op provides further information on that point.
I said if Co-op considers that the account ought to have been closed far earlier then I 
made clear that I didnt think that justified compensation or had any real impact on Mr B. 
But I would consider what Mr B says about any impact and why that justifies 
compensation rather than  
the account being marked as closed.
My provisional view was that I didnt intend to uphold this complaint and thought that Mr B 
had a number of payment options available to him and that he chose not to repay the 
balance until September 2021. In those circumstance I said I cant fairly order Co-op pay 
Mr B compensation as he would like and made clear that we wouldnt look to compensate 
on the basis of an hourly professional charging rate as Mr B was not acting in his 
professional capacity when dealing with this complaint.
Mr B has replied to my provisional decision and disagreed with it. He says he would 
provide further information by 19 August 2022 but hasnt done so.Co-op has provided information that I requested. It says it isnt responsible for how 
different Credit Reference Agencies report information but says it provided correct 
information to them in line with Mr Bs account being repaid in September 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. I am satisfied that Co-op isnt responsible for how a 
Credit Reference Agency reports information and make clear that I have not seen any 
evidence that it has reported incorrect information to them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman