DRN-3484099
The complaint
Mr G and Ms R complain that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited didnt pay 
for all the claim they made on their motor warranty.
What happened
Ms R, then Mr G held a motor warranty with Red Sands. When Ms Rs car went into limp 
mode she took it to a garage who diagnosed a problem with both the inlet manifolds.
Red Sands agreed to cover one of the manifolds only. It said the evidence it received only 
showed a fault with one of the manifolds, so it needed more evidence to support the second 
manifold needing to be replaced.
Ms Rs garage only repaired the manifold Red Sands had agreed to cover. Ms R drove the 
car away, but it went back into limp mode. Ms Rs garage then repaired the second manifold 
and submitted another claim to Red Sands. But Red Sands said there wasnt enough 
evidence to support the second manifold being broken, so to date, its not authorised the 
claim.
Mr G and Ms S complained about this decision. They didnt think it was fair Red Sands didnt 
pay for the second manifold because the garage said it needed repairing. They said they 
couldnt provide further video evidence but could provide the part if Red Sands needed it.
Red Sands didnt change its stance, so Mr G and Ms S brought their complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended their complaint be upheld. She appreciated that Red 
Sands wanted more evidence but thought that on the balance of probabilities the second 
manifold had failed and needed replacing.
Red Sands disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im also upholding Mr G and Ms Rs complaint.
Like our investigator I understand Red Sands desire for more evidence to support that the 
second manifold had failed and needed replacing. The repairing garage said the video 
shows both manifolds, but this isnt clear in the video. As Red Sands has pointed out, one 
manifold is obscured from view. But taking a step back and looking at all the available 
evidence I think that on balance, the second manifold had failed and needed replacing. I say 
this because:
The vehicle went into limp mode and the repairing garage diagnosed a problem with 
both inlet manifolds and submitted a claim for both
Only one manifold was authorised by Red Sands, so only that manifold was 
replaced.
The vehicle then went back into limp mode.
The second manifold was replaced, and the vehicle had no further issues.
I can see Mr G and Ms R have said the part is available should Red Sands want to inspect it, 
but I cant see that Red Sands have taken up this offer. So, Im satisfied that Mr G and Ms R 
are trying to provide evidence to support their claim as best they can.
Ive not been provided with any other reason from Red Sands to not pay this claim other 
than the lack of evidence to support it had failed. The inlet manifolds are a listed part and 
theres nothing to suggest the failure of the manifold wasnt caused by a mechanical 
breakdown. Red Sands has been given the option to inspect the part, but its not done so.
Therefore, in light of the above, I think its more likely than not that the second manifold had 
failed and needed to be replaced. And Im satisfied the part is covered by the policy, and Ive 
been given no reason to suggest the part failed for any reason on other than suffering a 
mechanical breakdown. So, I require Red Sands to pay this claim.
Mr G and Ms R have already paid to repair the second inlet manifold. Theyve provided 
evidence to show theyve paid £1,222.13. Red Sands should reimburse this cost minus the 
policy excess, plus 8% simple interest.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited to:
Pay Ms Rs claim of £1,222.13 minus the policy excess. 8% simple interest should be 
added on to the payment. Interest should be calculated from the date Ms R paid for 
the repair to the date Red Sands makes payment to her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman