DRN-4027364
The complaint
Ms S complains about the outcome of a claim she made to Shawbrook Bank Limited (who Ill
call Shawbrook) under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
In May 2021 Ms S entered into an agreement to supply a new door and windows to her
property. She financed the deal through a fixed sum loan with Shawbrook.
Ms S wasnt satisfied with the work, and she complained to Shawbrook.
The supplier attempted to rectify the issues Ms S complained of but when she was still
dissatisfied with the work Ms S commissioned an independent inspection of the installation.
The inspection was completed in late 2022 and was critical of the work that had been
completed.
Our investigator didnt think Shawbrook had been reasonable when rejecting the claim Ms S
had made to them under section 75. She thought the business should take some action to
put things right.
As Shawbrook didnt respond to the investigators most recent view the complaint has been
referred to me, an ombudsman, to provide a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I think there has been a breach of 
contract here and Im asking Shawbrook to put things right for Ms S. As Im suggesting a 
narrower redress than the investigator had proposed Im issuing a provisional decision so 
that the parties can, if they wish, comment further.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as is the
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement
has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
When a business is asked to consider a section 75 claim where theres been a breach of
contract wed expect them to try to put the consumer in the position they would have been in
if the contract had been performed.
Theres been a breach of contract here as the independent inspector who is an expert in
these matters says the installation is of an unsatisfactory quality. He said:
This installation has many defects with the product and the way it has been installed. It fails
to comply with the building regulations on multiple countsThe lack of support used in the
installation of the bay windows has and will continue to cause damage to the property and
should be remediated as soon as possibleextensive remedial works would be required to
bring the installation up to an acceptable and compliant standard The overspray evident
on the majority of the windows cannot be removed, it has bonded to the UPVC. If the
homeowners choose not to accept this defect, then the windows and door will have to be
replaced.
So, I think the correct resolution is, as far as possible, to put Ms S in the position she would
have been in if the contract had been performed and I dont think Shawbrook have been
reasonable not to uphold the section 75 claim.
Ms S is reluctant to have the original supplier complete the work. I understand her concerns
as the independent inspector has identified many areas of deficiency and poor workmanship.
I dont therefore think it would be reasonable to expect Ms S to allow the original supplier to
put things right. That should be done by an alternative business.
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested two options. She said Shawbrook should either:
Organise the replacement of the products by a new supplier. Ms S would need to
find a few suppliers which she'd be happy to use and provide Shawbrook with
quotes.
Unwind the agreement and remove the products at a convenient time for Ms
S so that she may source replacements herself. Here she felt it would be appropriate
for Shawbrook to pay the difference if there was an increased price for like for like
products.
Im not persuaded that the second option is practical. It would mean that Ms S would
potentially be left without windows and doors whilst waiting for the new supplier to fit them.
And, even if the work of the current supplier and the new supplier could be effectively
coordinated, the question of who would pay if there were delays in being able to start the
work because of any delay in removing the products, may raise further issues.
Im therefore expecting to tell Shawbrook to organise replacements of the products by a new
supplier. To facilitate that, Ms S will need to provide three up to date quotes for the work for
Shawbrook to select from. Shawbrook will also need to refund the cost of the independentinspection report Ms S commissioned, on provision of the receipt, and theyll need to add 8%
interest to that refund as Ms S has been deprived of the money.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to direct
Shawbrook to put things right in the manner Ive set out above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook responded to my provisional decision and said:
We have considered the Ombudsmans comments. On the whole we agree with the 
findings, but would like to make a third redress offer, which is:
Shawbrook agrees to cancel the loan, which means Ms S will not have to pay the
remaining loan balance of £1,737.56
Refund Ms S the loan repayments adding 8% interest  payments made to date
totals £5212.44, plus 8% net 275.15  total refund £5,487.59
Refund the £2000 deposit she paid to the supplier
We note the RISA report is dated 3 November 2022, which is after we provided our
final response to Ms S and also after she referred her complaint to your Service.
Given Ms S has, on the face of it, made the decision herself to instruct RISA, and
Shawbrook was not given an opportunity to discuss, or agree the appointment of an
independent inspection, we would not normally agree to refund the cost of the
independent report. However, in this instance, as a gesture of goodwill only, we will
refund the cost of the report on receipt of the invoice.
The loan cancellation and refund will allow Ms S to source, and pay for new
windows from a supplier of her choice.
So, I ran that option passed Ms S and I explained that if she didnt agree my view would be 
that Shawbrook should:
Organise the replacement of the products to the original specification and by a new
supplier. Shawbrook can select from three quotes Ms S is to provide from suppliers
shed be happy to use.
The agreement should stay in place and the balance outstanding should continue to
be paid on the same terms.
Refund the cost of the independent inspection report Ms S commissioned, on
provision of the receipt from Ms S. Add 8% simple interest to that refund from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Ms S explained that she preferred to follow the second option and have Shawbrook organise 
the replacement of the products to the original specification.
I think that puts Ms S in the position she would have been in if the contract had been carried 
out as expected and I dont therefore see any reason to deviate from it.Ms S also questioned whether VAT would be included. As Im asking Shawbrook to organise 
replacement of the products theyd also be responsible for paying any VAT that may be due 
on any new bill they may be paying. If theres VAT on the independent inspection report 
Shawbrook will need to refund that along with the cost of the report.
Ms S also explained that there would be plastering to do around the windows. She asked if 
the cost of that plastering could also be ordered. Im not persuaded to include that expense 
as Ms S didnt make the request until after the deadline I had given for comments to my 
provisional decision. It wouldnt be fair to extend that deadline further as I had already 
refused to do so when Shawbrook requested an extension. I think Ms S has had ample time 
to advise this Service of those expenses; I can see, for instance, that the investigators view 
of this complaint was issued in November 2022. 
Putting things right
Im therefore telling Shawbrook to put things right in the way Ive set out below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Shawbrook Bank Limited to:
Organise the replacement of the products to the original specification and by a new
supplier. Shawbrook can select from three quotes Ms S is to provide from suppliers
shed be happy to use.
The agreement should stay in place and the balance outstanding should continue to
be paid on the same terms.
Refund the cost of the independent inspection report Ms S commissioned, on
provision of the receipt from Ms S. Add 8% simple interest to that refund from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman