DRN-4034371
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited didnt fairly or reasonably deal with 
claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to the purchase of a 
timeshare.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr and Mrs M attended a sales presentation with representatives from a 
timeshare company I will call C. They purchased a trial membership at a cost of £4,395. This 
was funded with a loan from Shawbrook.
In May 2022 they complained to C saying that they had been misled. They said that at the 
sales meeting they had explained they were not interested in the range of resorts C offered. 
However, they had been told that the offer included an opportunity to access the properties 
of another holiday company I will call T. Mr and Mrs M have said that they have not been 
able to find suitable accommodation. Apparently all the places they were offered were in 
remote areas which was not what they wanted. 
C rejected their complaint and said they had been provided with full details of the 
accommodation it provided, including a multimedia presentation and a resort directory.  It 
said that it also provided a three year complimentary membership with T which offered 
access to around 2,700 resorts. C also said that it had extended the trial period by 30 
months in light of the pandemic, but T had not done so. 
It also referred to the declaration Mr and Mrs M had signed which stated: We understand 
that we will only be entitled to occupation of weeks in Apartments and at Resorts available to 
our Trial Membership, accommodation varies from resort to resort, the allocation is subject 
to availably [stet]. 
After an exchange of correspondence with C Mr and Mrs M then made a claim to Shawbrook 
which it rejected. Shawbrook said that Mr and Mrs M had been provided with sufficient 
information at the time of sale in order to make an informed decision. It also noted that there 
had been a 14 day withdrawal period which had not been triggered.
Shawbrook pointed out that Mr and Mrs M had signed to say they had been provided with a 
full set of documents which set out what they were buying. It also noted that T was a 
separate company and C had no control over what it did. Overall it concluded that C had 
provided all that it had agreed to in the contract.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She said that in order to be able to uphold 
the complaint she needed to have some supporting evidence. Mr and Mrs M didnt agree 
and said that they had supplied sufficient information for the complaint to be upheld. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. I will explain why.
The S. 75 Claims for Misrepresentation
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mr and Mrs M) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (Shawbrook) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
Its important to note that, as Shawbrook was the lender rather than the supplier, under the 
Act a claim is limited to one for misrepresentation or breach of contract, rather than general 
unhappiness with what was available under the contract.
I can understand that these sales meetings often took several hours and the sales agents 
would have spent time extolling the virtues of the product. Mr and Mrs M say that they were 
told that in response to them saying they wanted to stay in main resorts they were told this 
would not be a problem. I gather this made a difference such that they decided to sign the 
agreement. I also note that Mr M has told this service he did not read the agreement and 
accompanying documentation.
Not having been present at the sale its not possible for me to say exactly what was said, 
and in what circumstances. But the terms of the contract set out fairly clearly what was being 
offered by C. It seems that Mr and Mrs M were relying on T to provide the accommodation 
they sought.  However, all that C provided was complimentary membership of T and it 
cannot be held responsible for what T provided.
Given that this was important to Mr and Mrs M it would seem reasonable for them to have 
satisfied themselves that T was able to deliver what they wanted before signing. Alternatively 
they had 14 days to make sure what they had signed was what they wanted.  
I have no reason to doubt Mr and Mrs Ms recollections, but nor do I have any reason to 
doubt what C has said. As such I have to give due weight to the signed agreement and accompanying documentation and I have seen nothing which shows that C misrepresented 
the product of breached the contract.  
S.140A CCA
Although Mr and Mrs B have not raised a claim under s.140A I have considered whether 
they could have done. Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship 
between Mr and Mrs M and Shawbrook wase unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its 
relevant law, I do have to consider it if it applies to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under Section 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by 
virtue of any enactment under Section 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years and the claim was not made 
within this period.
However, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs M could be said to have a cause of action in 
negligence against Shawbrook anyway.
Their alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to them personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that Shawbrook assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly.
In conclusion I cannot safely conclude that Shawbrook did anything wrong in declining the 
claims made by Mr and Mrs M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman