DRN-3230612
The complaint
Mr L complains on behalf of the estate of Mr M, that Barclays Bank Plc wont refund disputed 
transactions made from Mr Ms account. And hed like them refunded. 
What happened
Mr M had two accounts with Barclays bank. 
Mr L contacted Barclays to advise that around £70,000 had been withdrawn from Mr Ms 
account without his knowledge. The first transactions started in 2004 and Mr L explained that 
Mr M believed a member of the family, Ill call A, had been withdrawing funds via cheque and 
standing orders without Mr Ms consent. 
Mr L also reported the matter to the police, but they didnt take any further action. He 
believes that the police failed to complete a thorough investigation.
 
Mr L explained that around 2004 Mr M allowed A to have access to his card and PIN from 
another bank, Ill call P, and to withdraw his pension. 
Mr L was also frustrated that hed contacted Barclays a number of times regarding the 
disputed transactions, however theyd failed to respond as hed expected.  
Barclays investigated Mr Ls complaint but didnt uphold it. They explained that A had third 
party authority on the account from 2009 and they cant conclude that the transactions 
werent authorised. The bank also explained that they dont have any evidence prior to 2009 
because of the period of time thats passed. However, the bank accepted that theyd 
provided poor customer service and offered £200 in compensation. 
Barclays provided Mr L a copy of the third party mandate from 2009  which showed that 
Mr M had given A the authority to transact on his behalf  but Mr L queried the lack of date 
on the document. And Mr Ms ability to visit a branch at that time, due to his health. 
Mr L wasnt happy with Barclays response so brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls complaint  but didnt uphold it. Our investigator 
explained that the signatures on the three cheques Barclays were able to obtain were similar 
to the mandate  and she wouldnt have expected Barclays to have any concerns that they 
werent authorised. Overall, she thought on balance Mr M most likely authorised the 
transactions, so it wasnt fair for her to conclude they should be refunded. 
Mr L didnt accept our investigators conclusion. In summary he said:
How have Barclays determined that fraud didnt occur?
Barclays should be able to evidence that A had authority to transact on Mr Ms 
account from 2004.
The third party mandate provided by Barclays was signed in 2009, but Mr M denied 
signing that form and was housebound at the time. 
What efforts have the bank made to get information from its archives?
Barclays bank failed in its legal obligation to protect Mr M from financial abuse.
As Mr L didnt accept our investigators view its been moved to me for a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has asked a significant number of questions in response to our investigators view. But, 
its not our role as a service to act as a mediator between Mr L and Barclays. So, I wont 
repeat every detail here or respond to every point made, only those which form the basis of 
my decision and I think are most relevant. However, I can assure Mr L that Ive read the file, 
including his comments and evidence. Im satisfied that the crux of Mr Ls complaint is that 
Barclays allowed A to carry out disputed transactions on Mr Ms account. 
Sadly we cant get Mr Ms testimony to determine what happened. And Mr L wasnt present
at the time of the disputed transactions so he himself cant know exactly what happened
either. The disputed transactions stretch from 2004 to 2016  and based on their age 
Barclays have very limited records for the majority of the transactions. 
Without Mr Ms testimony, and the lack of records for the transactions, Im afraid there are a 
lot of unknowns surrounding the complaint and I must base my decision on what I think is 
most likely.
For me to recommend that Barclays refund any money in this dispute I need to be satisfied
that Mr M didnt authorise the transactions.
A large number of the disputed transactions occurred before the introduction of the relevant 
legislation  the Payment Service Regulations in 2009. However, its generally accepted that 
the regulations put into legislation best practice when determining if customers should be 
held liable for disputed transactions. 
Ive firstly considered the evidence Barclays have been able to provide to our service and 
what it shows. 
Ive seen a copy of a third party mandate signed by both Mr M and A in September 2009 for 
his Barclays accounts. Both Mr M and A have signed the delegated authority form. And 
looking at the document Im satisfied it gives A the authority to carry out transactions on 
Mr Ms behalf from September 2009 onwards. 
Mr L has explained that Mr M informed him he didnt sign the form  and he was 
housebound at the time therefore couldnt have attended the branch and given his consent. 
Unfortunately I cant speak to Mr M about this directly  and Mr L wasnt present at the 
meeting, therefore he cant speak for what occurred at that time. The most reliable piece of 
evidence I have is the document provided by Barclays which both Mr M and A appear to 
have signed. 
Ive also looked at the three cheques provided by Barclays from 2016  all three have Mr Ms 
signature on. This is strong evidence that Mr M consented to the cheques. Even if I was to 
conclude that A had cashed these cheques without Mr Ms direct authority, this wouldnt change my thinking  as A was delegated authority from 2009 onwards any transactions 
carried out by A would be seen as authorised by the account holder. 
Ive moved on to consider the lack of evidence supplied by Barclays for As authority prior to 
this point. Barclays have explained that they keep any third party authority documentation for 
six years then it would be disposed of  this means they dont have any evidence to show 
whether A had delegated authority between 2004 and 2009. The Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), the regulator, says that businesses should keep records for a minimum of five years. 
For this reason I cant say that Id expect Barclays to have any records between 2004 and 
2009 to demonstrate As authority on the account. I need to reach my conclusions on the 
balance of probability  and Im afraid looking at the evidence I cant fairly conclude that the 
transactions in dispute between this time were unauthorised. I say this firstly because 
without Mr Ms testimony I cant be sure which, if any, transactions he didnt recognise. 
Secondly, even if delegated authority wasnt given Mr L has advised our service that A was 
given access to Mr Ms account with P. Therefore, it would seem reasonable to conclude 
that A might also have been given access to Mr Ms account with Barclays. Even though 
documentation may not have been completed, by handing over their personal security 
details a customer is giving a third party the authority to transact on their account  and they 
dont need to consent to each and every transaction. 
Mr L has raised that Barclays failed in their responsibilities to protect Mr M from financial 
abuse. Its true that the bank does have responsibilities to protect their customers  
especially older and vulnerable customers  from financial harm. And Id expect Barclays to 
have followed the best practice guidance at the time. However, its not possible for me to 
conclude that Barclays failed in their duty here. I say this firstly because of the age of the 
disputed transactions  and the third party mandate  the amount of information available is 
very limited. This means I cant look at any conversations Barclays had with Mr M to 
determine if they should have identified he was vulnerable to financial abuse.  And if I did 
think Barclays should have asked more questions of A when the delegated authority was 
granted or when the cheques were cashed Id need to then satisfy myself that Mr M hadnt 
actively consented to the transactions, which Im unfortunately unable to do. 
I realise this will disappoint Mr L however for the reasons Ive outlined above on balance I 
think Mr M likely authorised the disputed transactions. And therefore Barclays are entitled to 
hold him liable. 
Customer service:
Barclays have accepted that they provided poor customer service to Mr M and his estate. In 
particular providing inaccurate timeframes for replies, giving late responses and not referring 
the matter to the fraud team when the disputed transactions were initially raised. Mr L has 
also raised the lack of replies the estate received from Barclays when following up their 
concerns at the start of 2020. 
Putting things right
Barclays have offered the estate of Mr M £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Although this offer was made before further poor customer service at the start of 2020, Im 
satisfied its fair compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused to Mr M and more 
recently the estate. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. And direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:Pay £200 compensation to the estate of Mr M
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman