DRN-1456617
The complaint
Mr D complains that Moorcroft Debt Recovery Limited treated him unfairly as they wouldn't 
accept the settlement amount, he sent them.
What happened
Mr D owed around £14,000 to a lender who Ill refer to as N. N instructed Moorcroft to 
collect the outstanding balance on its behalf. In early March 2019, Mr D contacted Moorcroft 
to make a settlement offer. He provided them with details of his current financial situation 
and asked if they could put forward his offer of £3,800 to N.  
Mr D called back a couple of days later and Moorcroft told him the offer had been declined, 
but N was prepared to settle the debt at £10,745. Mr D said this wasnt possible so he would 
continue to make his monthly payment towards the outstanding debt.
Shortly after, Mr D wrote to Moorcroft. He explained that he was in financial difficulty and 
was working with a charity to clear his outstanding debts. He said he could afford to pay 
£3,500 in full and final settlement of his debt so hed included a cheque for that amount. He 
asked that Moorcroft let him know if this wasnt going to be accepted by N who he owed the 
debt to.
A couple of weeks later, the cheque was cashed so Mr D said he believed the terms of his 
letter had been accepted and his outstanding debt had been settled. 
In late April 2019, Moorcroft called Mr D to chase the outstanding debt. He told them that 
hed settled the debt and theyd accepted this when they cashed the cheque. Moorcroft 
didnt agree. They said theyd only accepted the cheque as a part payment towards the 
outstanding debt. Mr D didnt think this was fair, so he raised a complaint. 
Moorcroft didnt uphold the complaint. They said despite confirming to Mr D over the phone 
his offer had been rejected, a couple of days later theyd received the cheque from him. 
They explained their process was for all cheques to be cashed immediately by one 
department, but a different department would have responded to the correspondence. 
They also said they hadnt received any other correspondence with Mr Ds cheque which is 
why they hadnt been aware this was for a partial settlement. And they explained they hadnt 
agreed to the partial settlement and N would still be expecting the remaining balance to be 
repaid. Mr D didnt think this was fair, so he asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Moorcroft had been 
clear about how much N would accept to clear the outstanding balance. He also felt that 
although Moorcroft had cashed the cheque this didnt mean it had been accepted as full and 
final settlement of the debt. 
Mr D didnt agree. He felt his previous offer to Moorcroft was irrelevant and the cheque was 
the only offer which should be considered. He also didnt agree that Moorcroft hadnt 
received his letter and he felt they had deliberately said this to change the nature of his cheque to an account reduction rather than a part settlement. He also said that his letter had 
been sent by post which was a lawful service of making his settlement and he felt that 
Moorcrofts delay in contacting him about the payment theyd received was unreasonable.   
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case had been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it. I'll explain why. 
Mr D has said hes unhappy with the time it took for Moorcroft to let him know his account 
hadnt been settled. And he feels his letter was clear that by cashing the cheque Moorcroft 
had accepted his terms. But I dont agree. Its not unusual for a business to cash a cheque 
once its been received. Its also not uncommon to have different departments dealing with 
payments and actual cases. So I dont think it was unreasonable that Moorcroft cashed the 
cheque when it was received.
Mr D also feels that its indisputable his offer had been accepted, and because of the delay 
in responding to him, it was fair for him to think it had been accepted. But I dont agree. 
Moorcroft have said that they dont have any record of Mr Ds letter being received, and 
werent aware of the partial settlement request until theyd spoken to him at the end of April. 
I havent seen any evidence from Moorcrofts system records which show otherwise, 
however, they have provided a copy of the cheque which shows the account number written 
on the back. And as the cheque was in Mr Ds name, I think its reasonable that Moorcroft 
believed the payment was for this account and made the credit to the account accordingly. 
Although Mr D has provided a copy of the letter he says was sent, he hasnt provided 
anything to confirm it was included with the cheque. However, I think based on the content of 
the letter its likely that if Moorcroft had received it, they wouldve contacted Mr D sooner to 
let him know his offer wasnt accepted, rather than wait until the end of April to chase for the 
outstanding balance. I also think its likely that as Moorcroft scanned a copy of the cheque 
when it was received, if a letter had been enclosed, that this would also have been scanned 
onto their system at the same time. 
I also dont think it was unreasonable that Moorcroft didnt meet the specific terms which had 
been set by Mr D. I say this because Ive listened to the call between Mr D and Moorcroft in 
early March 2019 where Moorcroft confirmed Mr Ds offer had been declined by N. I think 
Moorcroft were clear that the offer wasnt accepted, and N wanted £10,745 to settle the 
outstanding debt. Mr D then acknowledged this and confirmed in the call he couldnt afford 
this higher offer. 
Moorcroft then said he could make an alternative higher monthly payment which he also said 
he couldnt afford. Mr D was then asked if he would like to continue with his monthly 
payment instead which he then confirmed before ending the call. I think Moorcroft were clear 
throughout that they were only acting as collection agents for N, and that they werent in a 
position to accept or reject full and final settlements without instruction from N. 
I acknowledge Mr D feels the initial offer is irrelevant and its only the second offer that 
should be considered. But I think Mr D ought to have been reasonably aware that by sending 
the cheque  and for a lower amount than hed offered previously - it was likely to have been 
declined by N.  And I think it was clear from the call Mr D had with Moorcroft before he sent 
the cheque that they didnt intend to accept any full and final settlement payment on Ns behalf. And I think that although Moorcroft cashed Mr Ds cheque before considering what 
the payment was for, it doesnt mean it would be fair and reasonable to say that Mr D 
doesnt owe anything further. 
Mr D told us he was unhappy with the time it took Moorcroft to respond to him. And he feels 
this strengthens his argument that by leaving it so long to reply, the law construes that his 
offer had been accepted. But I dont think its fair for him to reasonably rely on any potential 
delays in Moorcrofts internal processes, or in response to his cheque - which may not have 
had an accompanying letter, to say his account had been settled. 
I also note that Mr D said that Moorcroft wrote to him a couple of months later after theyd 
realised their 'mistake'. So, I think he was aware that if the cheque was accepted and 
cashed it would have been a 'mistake' for them to accept it, and that there wouldnt have 
been any real consideration or intention from them to accept this as the full and final 
settlement offer, hed put forward. Therefore, I dont think it would be reasonable to now bind 
them to this acceptance. I acknowledge that if Mr D referred this to a court they may come to 
a different outcome. But in my view, I think it would be unfair given the circumstances to bind 
Moorcroft to its mistaken acceptance. 
I recognise this has been a frustrating time for Mr D, and Id like to reassure him that Ive 
carefully read all the information thats been provided. I understand why Mr D feels strongly 
about whats happened and I realise this wont be the outcome he was hoping for, but I dont 
think Moorcroft have treated him unfairly. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2020.
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman