DRN-4458020
The complaint
Mr A complains West Bay Insurance Plc caused him a loss of income through poor handling 
of his commercial motor insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr As a taxi driver. In late December 2022 he claimed against his West Bay taxi insurance 
policy. His taxi had been damaged in a collision. He felt the damage meant it was 
undrivable. West Bay accepted the claim and arranged repairs. After various delays the 
repaired car was returned to Mr A in late April 2023. 
Mr A didnt have courtesy car provision under his policy. So he didnt have access to a 
replacement car to continue his taxi work. He complained to West Bay about its 
communication and delay during the claim. He felt it had, by taking longer than necessary to 
repair his car, caused him financial loss  primarily through loss of income. 
West Bay responded in April 2023. It apologised for providing Mr A misleading information 
about repair completion. It accepted it had caused him trouble and upset. West Bay agreed it 
had caused avoidable delay and financial loss. It offered £500 compensation. It said it would 
consider Mr As claim for financial loss. To allow it to do that it requested he provide various 
information, including two years of income and tax evidence.
Mr A didnt provide that information to West Bay. Instead he asked this service to consider 
his complaint. He provided this service with some information about his taxi earnings during 
various periods, but not everything requested by West Bay. Our Investigator forwarded that 
evidence to West Bay. It said as he hadnt provided most of the information it had requested 
it was unable to assess his loss of earnings. 
Following that our Investigator considered the complaint. He felt West Bay was responsible 
for avoidable delays, leaving Mr A without the use of his car, for around six weeks. He felt 
West Bays request to see two years of accounts information was unreasonable. So he 
considered the income and expenditure evidence Mr A had provided. Having done so he 
recommended West Bay pay loss of earnings for six weeks at £1,200 per week. He felt its 
original offer of £500 compensation was fair  so didnt recommend it pay any additional 
compensation. 
West Bay didnt accept that recommendation. Neither did it make a counteroffer. It felt 
additional information was required from Mr A to make a meaningful calculation of his loss. 
West Bay requested that this service, rather than set a specific cash award, instead direct it 
to pay loss of earnings subject to completion of a forensic accountant assessment. As the 
complaint wasnt resolved it was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. As its reasoning forms part of this final decision Ive copied it 
in below. In it I explain why, whilst I consider West Bay did cause avoidable delay, I intend to 
allow it the opportunity to quantify and reimburse Mr As loss. I also requested he and West 
Bay provide any further information they would like to consider before issuing this final 
decision. Neither provided anything. 
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I intend to come to a different outcome to the Investigator. I havent 
considered Mr As loss. Essentially, I feel, whilst West Bay did cause avoidable delay 
to Mr As claim, its response to his complaint was fair and reasonable. So the fair 
outcome is for it to be allowed an opportunity, before this service makes a 
judgement, to quantify and reimburse Mr As loss. 
West Bay accepted it should have repaired his car sooner. It offered a fair amount of 
compensation, £500. Most importantly it accepted the principal, that although his 
policy doesnt provide for loss of earnings, its poor service caused him a financial 
loss that it should reimburse. In principle its reasonable for West Bay to have 
requested evidence of Mr As recent financial history to allow it to calculate his 
potential loss. I havent considered the fairness of the exact information it listed in its 
complaint response. I think its likely a generic list West Bay provided as a starting 
point. Id expect it to discuss with Mr A the evidence he can reasonably provide. 
This service is required to consider whats fair and reasonable for both Mr A and 
West Bay. And having made a reasonable proposal West Bay should, before this 
service gets involved, be allowed a chance to follow it through and propose a fair 
settlement  based on the evidence Mr A provides. 
In addition West Bays shown it has access to the services of a forensic accountant. 
That could provide for a more informed assessment of Mr As potential losses than 
this service might be able to. We generally dont have access to that type of 
expertise. For example an accountant should have a greater knowledge of tax or 
benefit implications  including the impact of any losses or reimbursement payment 
on Mr As Child Tax Credit entitlements. 
I understand Mr A didnt want to provide all the evidence West Bay requested in its 
final response letter  and that he would prefer this service to consider his financial 
loss. But overall I feel the fair and reasonable outcome is to allow West Bay a chance 
to consider the evidence he can provide or is willing to. 
If Mr As unable or unwilling to provide some of the information West Bay feels is 
required, then the two parties can try to find a compromise. If thats not possible or 
ultimately Mr A isnt satisfied with West Bays offer he can consider raising a further 
complaint. This service may, depending on the exact circumstances, be able to 
consider it. But, as Ive said, West Bay should be allowed an opportunity to make an 
offer first.  
Im clarifying a few issues here should Mr A bring a further complaint to this service. I 
havent for this complaint addressed the actual financial loss he incurred, the 
evidence hes been able or willing to provide or if West Bays acted fairly by insisting 
on specific information. Those issues would be better considered after both have had 
an opportunity to discuss the details of the loss, the available evidence and tried to 
come to a fair settlement.   
I realise, as our Investigator took a different approach, that this proposed outcome is 
likely to be frustrating for Mr A. I apologise if this service has been inconsistent. But that wouldnt be West Bays fault. So it shouldnt be an obstacle to it being given an 
opportunity to resolve Mr As complaint without our involvement. 
 
So as I consider West Bay responded to Mr As complaint fairly and reasonably, I 
dont intend to require it to do anything differently  like reimburse him for financial 
loss.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent been provided with anything to persuade me to change the outcome I proposed in 
my provisional decision. So for the reasons set out above, Im not going to require West Bay 
to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman