DRN-4018280
The complaint
Mrs S says National Westminster Bank Plc irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs S applied for a credit card online from NatWest on 6 December 2021. She was given a
credit limit of £6,750. The account defaulted on 8 June 2022 with a balance of £6,636.29.
Mrs S wants the outstanding balance to be written off as she should have never been
approved. She says had NatWest looked into her circumstances properly it would have been
obvious she had no disposable income and could not afford this card.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ss complaint, saying NatWests checks were
proportionate and it made a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered.
Mrs S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review.
I reached a different conclusion to the investigator so I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties a chance to comment. An extract from my provisional decision follows and 
forms part of this final decision.
Extract from my provisional decision
NatWest says that it carried out a full credit assessment including credit scoring as well as
considering information from Mrs Ss application when making its decision. It says that Mrs S
declared a net monthly income of £3,000 a month, that she was married and had two
dependents. It deducted £924 for living costs and £581 for existing unsecured credit
commitments. It allowed £236 to support the repayments of this new card and so concluded
the credit would be affordable. NatWest explains its system is highly automated and
designed to deal with a large volume of mass markets applications. Its checks for Mrs S
showed no triggers like gambling or financial difficulties and so her application did not
require any manual income verification.
I appreciate that NatWests lending decision was automated, but this does not mean that
obvious available information should be ignored. NatWest had an excellent source of data
about Mrs Ss financial circumstances  its own internal records. Mrs S had an existing
relationship with NatWest as her main current account was with NatWest. This information
was easily accessible and clearly relevant to her credit card application, and I think that
NatWest should have taken this into account.
From the bank statements NatWest has provided, I can see that it held conflicting
information about Mrs Ss circumstances. In the three months before Mrs Ss application her
average monthly salary was £971.05 and there was £140.60 of benefit income. This meant
her total income was significantly lower than her declared income of £3,000. Had NatWest
used the actual income data it already had its affordability assessment would have shown
Mrs S to have no disposable income.
In addition, the statements I have seen show Mrs S was persistently reliant on her overdraft
facility, and had been for over two years, even after the monthly credits onto her account
from her partner. They also show Mrs S had recently taken out two high-value loans in
September and October 2021. The first was for £15,000 and the second was for £20,000  it
was used in part to settle the first. So there was recent evidence Mrs S was most likely in
cycle of borrowing to repay and she was increasing her overall indebtedness. In the round I
think there was sufficient evidence for NatWest to realise that extending more credit to Mrs S
would most likely lead to her again needing to borrow to repay, or to suffer some other
adverse financial consequences  as went on to happen.
Our investigator observed that Mrs S used this card for balance transfers so it is likely she
was saving money on interest payments that would have been due elsewhere. But NatWest
did not know how Mrs S would use the £6,750 credit it gave her, so I have not considered
this retrospective analysis when reaching my conclusion.
It follows I currently think NatWest was wrong to give this card with a £6,750 limit to Mrs S.
I then set out what NatWest would need to do to put things right.
NatWest disagreed with my findings. It said it remained of the view the card was affordable 
for Mrs S, and it was regrettable she had not declared accurate information about her 
income. It reiterated its process is designed for the mass market and is largely automated, it 
is not practical to do manual checks for each application. Mrs Ss circumstances may have 
changed more recently but this doesnt demonstrate card was unaffordable at the point of 
sale. 
It said Mrs S claimed no checks were done which is not correct, so her testimony seems 
inconsistent and not plausible. Its debt management team is now trying to help Mrs S and 
will continue to do so. It has not sold the debt. Finally, it said the card should remain on her 
credit file as it is an accurate reflection of how the account was managed, and if removed 
there is nothing to stop the same situation happening again. 
Mrs S did not reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Ss complaint.
I have considered NatWests response to my provisional decision carefully but it has not 
changed my conclusion. I will explain why.
I understand its approval process is largely automated, but this does not change its 
obligation to lend responsibly. When we consider if a lender has completed proportionate 
checks we look not only at the information it opted to collect, but also how it responded to 
the information it had. And I find in the circumstances of this case it was a failing not to verify 
Mrs Ss income given it held that data  whether it used an automated process to do this, or 
checked it manually. NatWest flagged that Mrs S ought not to have provided inaccurate 
information, and I accept she did, but this does not change its obligations to react to 
information it holds and lend responsibly. I am struggling to see how it can argue that the 
card was affordable at the point of sale when it had access to Mrs Ss bank statements that 
clearly show she was under financial pressure  being persistently reliant on her overdraft and having recently taken out two high value loans.
NatWest raised that Mrs S claimed no checks were done, which is wrong, so her testimony 
cannot be seen to be plausible. But my findings rely on the available evidence from looking 
at what information NatWest did and didnt use/verify, as well as Mrs Ss bank statements  
not what Mrs S has said. So this comment does not alter my conclusion. 
Finally, NatWest said the card must remain on Mrs Ss credit file as it is an accurate 
reflection of how she managed the account. I agree in part, and the redress in the 
provisional decision reflects this. The information should remain in full until the capital is 
repaid. But then any adverse information should be removed to reflect the conclusion that 
the lending decision was not fair. I am not instructing that the entry should be removed in full. 
If Mrs S is in an arrangement whilst she repays the capital, I agree that should be reflected 
on her credit file. She could contact the credit reference agencies to add a notice of 
correction onto her credit file, flagging that the account was found to have been lent 
irresponsibly by this service, if she wishes.
Putting things right
As I dont think NatWest ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair
for it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I do think
Mrs S should pay back the capital she borrowed. I dont think it is fair for the balance
to be written off as Mrs S would like as she has had the benefit of the money. This is in line
with our standard approach for cases like this.
Therefore, NatWest should:
- Rework the account removing all interest, fees (including the balance transfer fees),
charges and insurances (which have not already been refunded) that have been
applied.
- As this will result in an outstanding balance, NatWest should ensure the existing
repayment plan for the remaining amount remains affordable for Mrs S.
- Once Mrs S has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the
account should be removed from her credit file.
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Ss complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc must put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman