DRN-2443052
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) havent offered them lower 
interest rates on their mortgage over the years. As a result, they say theyve been mortgage 
prisoners.
Mr and Mrs G have recently been able to take out a new interest rate product through a 
broker, and theyre unhappy theyve had to pay for broker fees when BoI should have 
offered them a rate directly.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage with BoI in 2008 (trading as Bristol and West at the time). 
The mortgage offer shows that Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage was taken on an initial fixed 
interest rate of 5.89% until 28 February 2013. After that, the mortgage would revert to the 
banks standard variable rate (SVR) for the remaining term, which was 7.59% at the time.
Once Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage reverted to the SVR in 2013, it stayed on this rate until they 
successfully applied for a new interest rate in 2020 through a broker.
 
In January 2019 Mrs G called BoI to ask for information about interest rates available on the 
mortgage. The bank explained the process for applying for a rate and Mrs G said she would 
think about things and call back.
In May 2019 Mrs G called BoI again to ask for information about her mortgage. During this 
call she complained about the sale of the mortgage. She also explained that she and Mr G 
had been stuck on a high interest rate on an interest only mortgage due to their 
circumstances. The BoI adviser offered to transfer Mrs G to another department to discuss 
the options available on the mortgage, but Mrs G chose not to go ahead at the time.
In March 2020 Mr and Mrs G complained that they hadnt been offered interest rates on their 
mortgage, and theyd been trapped on the SVR. BoI issued their final response letter in May 
2020. They said the bank had written to Mr and Mrs G in 2018 to let them know that other 
interest rates may have been available to them. They also attempted to call Mr and Mrs G in 
December 2018, March 2019 and April 2019 to ask why their mortgage was still on the SVR. 
They also said in May 2019 during a conversation with Mrs G, the bank had offered to book 
a mortgage appointment to discuss rates, but Mrs G refused. The bank said that Mr and Mrs 
G were able to approach the bank to discuss rates at any time during the mortgage term, but 
hadnt done so. So they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs G asked us to look into things. They explained they felt theyd been mortgage 
prisoners as theyd been paying a higher rate on their mortgage than theyd needed to. They 
were unhappy they had to go through a broker to get access to a lower rate, and incurred 
fees in the process.
 
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that Mr 
and Mrs G hadnt asked for a lower rate on their mortgage until more recently when they 
successfully applied. She said the bank had tried to contact them from 2018 to invite them to 
discuss rates, but Mr and Mrs G had either not followed this up or refused to discuss things. 
As a result, she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to make 
a decision. They said the bank should have made more effort to contact them about their 
interest rate, and were unhappy they hadnt been able to provide evidence of any of the 
letters they say they sent. Mr and Mrs G referred to two online articles relating to mortgage 
prisoners. Mrs G also told us she didnt go through with an appointment in 2019 as she was 
given the impression any application would be unsuccessful.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view, so the case has been passed to me 
to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to say that Im sorry to hear about Mrs Gs ill health, and the financial 
difficulties her and Mr G are experiencing at the moment. I can appreciate theyve been 
going through a very difficult time.
 
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage offer, and Im satisfied that this clearly states that 
once the initial fixed rate period was due to end, the mortgage would revert to the SVR for 
the remaining term of the mortgage. BoI say they wrote to Mr and Mrs G in 2013 to let them 
know their fixed rate was coming to an end, and that their mortgage would be moving onto 
the SVR. Whilst BoI havent been able to provide a copy of the actual letter that was sent, 
they have provided a sample of what this letter would have said.
 
However, I have seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Gs annual mortgage statements that they were 
sent each year, and the interest rate Mr and Mrs G were paying on their mortgage was set 
out in their annual statements. So Im satisfied that BoI made Mr and Mrs G aware of the 
rate they were paying on their mortgage, and if they wanted to ask about other rates that 
may have been available, they could have contacted the bank to discuss things.
Ive reviewed the contact notes for the mortgage account. Theres no evidence to suggest 
that Mr and Mrs G asked BoI about new interest rates until January 2019.
 
Ive listened to a recording of that conversation, and Mrs G called the bank to ask what 
better deals were available. The bank explained the process for applying for a new rate, and 
Mrs G said she just wanted to hear about the options as they were considering selling the 
property. The adviser explained that unless they were planning on moving the mortgage to 
another property, there would be an Early Repayment Charge payable if they redeemed the 
mortgage within a fixed rate period, and the shortest fixed rate available was for two years. 
Mrs G explained she was reluctant to apply for a rate as they had problems providing proof 
of income due to them being self-employed, but the adviser said that in order to take out a 
new rate she wouldnt need to provide any proof of income so that wouldnt be a problem. 
Mrs G said she would think about her options and call back.
Mr and Mrs G dont dispute that no other calls were made before this. But they feel BoI 
should have done more to reach out to them and let them know they could have had a lower 
interest rate. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs Gs strength of feeling about this, pro-actively contacting 
borrowers about other interest rates that may have been available for them is not something 
lenders were required to do by the regulator. Nor has it been common practice across the industry. If Mr and Mrs G wanted to take out a new interest rate, they could contact the bank 
to find out what was available, as Mrs G did in January 2019. As a result, Im not persuaded 
that BoI have acted unfairly by not pro-actively contacting Mr and Mrs G about interest rate 
products before 2018.
In 2018, some lenders did sign up to a voluntary agreement where they agreed to reach out 
to some of their borrowers who were on the SVR, to let them know other rates may have 
been available. BoI did sign up to this agreement, and as a result, they wrote to Mr and Mrs 
G in 2018 inviting them to discuss their options.
 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G say they never received this letter, but Ive seen evidence it was 
sent to them in November 2018. As the bank received no response to the letter, they 
attempted to call Mr and Mrs G on three occasions over the following months, but were 
unable to get through. Its since come to light that Mr and Mrs G were not living in the 
mortgaged property, and their landline was no longer in use. So it may well be the case that 
they didnt receive the letter or the phone calls. But given that BoI were contacting them on 
the details theyd been provided by Mr and Mrs G, Im not persuaded that was the banks 
fault. And in any case Mrs G spoke to the bank about new rates in January 2019  so even if 
they had received that letter things wouldnt be any different.
Mrs G called again in May 2019, and Ive listened to a recording of that conversation. During 
this call Mrs G explains that as a result of them being self-employed on a self-certified 
mortgage, they had been stuck on a high rate on an interest only mortgage for 11 years. The 
BoI adviser said that she couldnt see Mr and Mrs G had enquired before about switching 
their mortgage, and Mrs G said that they were aware from their other mortgages they have 
that as their circumstances hadnt changed, and they couldnt prove their income, there 
wouldnt be anything available. The BoI adviser offered to transfer the call to a different team 
who could see what options were available to Mr and Mrs G, but Mrs G said there was no 
point. Mrs G also told BoI that the mortgaged property was currently empty, and they were 
planning to put it on the market for sale very shortly.
Mrs G asked BoI to log a complaint about the mis-sale of the mortgage. She said she 
wanted to look into the sale of the mortgage before reviewing what other options were 
available to her now.
Im satisfied that during this call, BoI offered to discuss the available options for switching the 
rate with Mrs G, but she declined to go ahead. I appreciate Mrs G has told us she didnt go 
ahead as she was given the impression from the adviser that there was no point, but I dont 
agree that was a fair interpretation of the call. It was Mrs G who said there was no point in 
going through a review as she was aware from the other mortgages she held that she 
wouldnt be eligible for anything. The adviser explained that Mr and Mrs G hadnt had a 
review with BoI for this mortgage, so they could see what was available for them. I dont 
think it was the adviser that put Mrs G off from discussing rates any further. Mrs G chose not 
to go ahead with a review, despite knowing that there may be other rates available. As a 
result, I dont think the bank acted unfairly.
In 2020 Mr and Mrs G chose to ask a broker for help with re-mortgaging. They then ended 
up taking a new rate with BoI, which Mr and Mrs G had to pay the broker for arranging. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs Gs frustrations at having to pay those fees when they could have 
arranged the new rate directly, but Mr and Mrs G never approached the bank directly to 
apply for a new rate. There were no other conversations that took place between May 2019 
and them taking the new rate through a broker. So Im not persuaded that its the banks fault 
that Mr and Mrs G have ended up paying the broker for securing the new rate. Theres no 
evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have been able to get a new rate directly without the help of a broker. As a result, Im not persuaded it would be fair to recommend 
BoI compensate Mr and Mrs G for those fees paid.
Overall, Im persuaded that BoI have given Mr and Mrs G sufficient information about the 
interest rate they were paying, and they could have contacted the bank if they wanted to 
apply for a new interest rate. In 2019 Mrs G was aware the bank could review the mortgage 
and she could apply for a new rate, but she chose not to proceed. As a result, Im not 
persuaded the reason Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage has been on the SVR between 2013 and 
2020 is a result of unfair treatment by the bank. 
Mrs G has told us that shes currently experiencing financial difficulty. If she hasnt done so 
already, Id encourage her to discuss things with BoI to see what theyre able to do to help in 
light of Mr and Mrs Gs current circumstances.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman