DRN-3158029
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with his claim under his Plumbing
and Drainage Plus cover, when he had a limited water supply to his home.
What happened
Mr B has Plumbing and Drainage Plus cover for his home with Aviva. On 2 August 2020 he
contacted them as there was a problem with the water supply to his home. An initial
engineers visit was booked for 9 August 2020. Aviva sent engineers to his property on 9
August 2020, 10 August 2020 and 11 August 2020, but none of them were able to resolve
the problem.
The engineer who attended on 11 August told Mr B and Aviva that finding the blockage was
a two-man job. Avivas notes say that furniture and floorboards might have to be removed, if
a gallo gun didnt clear the blockage. Mr B says the engineer told him hed need to clear his
living room. And as the engineer said it was an emergency, he arranged to do this
immediately, as he expected Aviva to send two men the following day.
The furniture Mr B moved was placed in his hall, which he says caused great inconvenience
to his wife, whod recently had surgery and was using a wheelchair. She couldnt get past
the furniture in her wheelchair and had to rely on crutches.
Aviva accept that after the engineers visit they made a mistake, and instead of booking the
follow up visit to Mr Bs property, his claim was closed.
Mr B called Aviva on 18 August 2020 to find out why he hadnt heard further from them. Hes
unhappy about how his call was dealt with, as he was waiting for around 40 minutes before
his call was answered, he was put on hold while the call handler tried to find out what was
happening with his claim, and then call the cut off.
Following this call Mr B emailed Aviva on 18 August 2020. As he didnt receive a reply, he
sent a further email and a recorded delivery letter to them on 22 August 2020. He received a
reply on 28 August 2020 saying Aviva were looking into things and would be in touch shortly.
Mr B sent a further letter to Aviva on 13 September 2020, which they acknowledged on 18
September 2020 saying they were still looking into his complaint.
So Aviva clearly received Mr Bs correspondence, but instead of contacting him to arrange to
send out a further engineer, they logged a complaint. Mr B wrote to Aviva again on 4 
October 2020 telling them that he intended to engage an outside contractor to resolve the 
issue with his water supply and threatening legal action if the problem wasnt resolved.
Mr B called Aviva on 6 October 2020 and they realised that a follow-up visit hadnt been
arranged back in August. An engineers visit was arranged for the following day. The
engineer found that Mr B had a failing pressure release valve, which was causing the
problem with his water pressure. He removed this and Mr Bs water flow was restored. So
there was no blockage, and this wasnt the large two-man job Mr B had been told it was.
By the time the engineer attended Mr Bs property in early October hed been without water,
or had an intermittent water supply, for nearly two months. Mr B has told us that this caused
problems for all the family, but especially for his wife, whod had a number of amputations
and struggled, without water, to keep these clean.
Aviva responded to Mr Bs complaint on 14 October 2020. Their letter acknowledged that
theyd hadnt got things right. They said that three engineers hadnt been able to resolve the
problem with his water flow, the last had suggested it was a more difficult issue to resolve
than it turned out to be and they hadnt arranged a follow-up appointment for over a month.
Having considered what Mr B had told them, particularly about his wifes surgery, Aviva
offered £910 compensation for the inconvenience Mr B and his family had experienced. Mr B
responded the same day saying he didnt think the offer was enough. It was increased to
£1,250 which Mr B told Aviva he reluctantly accepted.
 
Mr B then complained to our service saying he felt he should receive far more compensation
from Aviva for the poor service they provided than the sum theyd paid him.
Our investigator considered the case and said the compensation Aviva had offered was
reasonable. While she accepted that it had taken a long time for Aviva to resolve the
problem with Mr Bs water flow, she felt that in an emergency situation calling them, rather
than writing or emailing, would have led to the problem being resolved far more quickly.
In saying this she acknowledged that when Mr B had called them in August 2020, hed been
on hold for a long time, and the call had cut out. While she agreed that Aviva hadnt handled
this call well, theyd told Mr B that theyd been having system problems that day, and this
had meant their phone lines had been particularly busy once these problems had been
resolved. So she didnt think it would always have taken so long for his call to be answered.
She also said that as Mr B had told us his wife was using a wheelchair at the time, it would
have been sensible to wait until a further appointment was confirmed before moving furniture
into a hallway, when this prevented her from using her wheelchair.
So while our investigator felt that Aviva hadnt dealt with his claim well, she felt the way Mr B
had chosen to communicate with them had contributed to the delay in resolving his claim.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators opinion. He said that he had his family were without
water for 66 days, and over this period the compensation Aviva had paid amounted to £18 a 
day, which he didnt think was enough. He also said that hed tried to call Aviva many times
and had spent hours on the phone, only for calls to be terminated without being answered.
So he didnt accept that he hadnt chased Aviva enough.
And he said Avivas engineer told him hed have to clear his room, or he wouldnt have done
this. He provided details of the furniture that was moved into his hall, which he described as
an obstacle course. He also told us that his wifes surgery had involved amputations of her
feet, and he believed that the lack of water had led to developing infections, which may have
resulted in her needing further amputations. And he said it wasnt possible to find a
contractor to come in and resolve the problem because of the pandemic.
Our investigator considered what Mr B said but didnt change her opinion. She said that
while she understood his concerns about how the lack of water may had impacted on his
wifes recovery, he hadnt provided any evidence of this. She also said that Avivas notes
stated that the engineer had said furniture might have to be moved. And given his wifes
mobility problems, she still felt it would have been better if the furniture hadnt been moved
until Mr B had a firm appointment date.She also said that she understood waiting times were frustrating and Mr B had difficulties
getting through to Aviva. But at the time, businesses were particularly busy because of
the pandemic and unfortunately, customers were waiting much longer than businesses
would have liked them to be. And given the urgency of the circumstances she maintained
that contacting Aviva in writing wasnt the best way to get an immediate response.
And finally, she said that by August 2020 the pandemic restrictions had eased, and Mr B
should have been able to consider finding contractors to undertake essential work.
Mr B responded by saying Avivas engineer phoned his office and was told further engineers
would be sent, and he wouldnt have cleared the room without a firm appointment date.
Regarding his wifes condition, he said our investigator wasnt qualified to comment on the
impact a lack of water had on his wifes condition. And he couldnt obtain a medical report
due to the pandemic. But he said that it should be obvious to most people that a lack of
water leads to bacterial infections.
The case then came to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 10 September 2021. And in it I said: -
Aviva have accepted that they didnt deal with Mr Bs claim as they should have done.
Theyve said that three engineers couldnt find the cause of his water flow problem. And he
was given the wrong information about the likely cause and what needed to be done to
resolve this.
They also accept that after the third engineers visit, they failed to book a follow up
appointment, although it was an emergency situation. And when Mr B contacted them by
letter, although this was flagged as a complaint, no action was taken to send out a further
engineer until he called them in early October 2020.
When that further engineer attended Mr Bs property on 7 October 2020, he resolved the
water flow problem by simply removing a faulty pressure release valve. But this was nearly
two months after the last engineers visit.
The problems with Mr Bs water flow happened during a pandemic, and although some
restrictions had eased by August 2020, businesses were struggling to cope not only with
emergencies, but with a backlog of work. This meant that Avivas phonelines would have
been busier than normal and this would have led to increased wait times, before calls were
picked up.
So while I understand that Mr B had a poor experience when he called Aviva on 18 August
2020, I think that the best way to get the further engineers visit arranged would have been to
call them again. I accept that Mr B found the long wait times frustrating, and his call on 18
August 2020 was cut off, but sending letters during a pandemic when businesses were
struggling to deal with post, didnt help with resolving his problem quickly. And when his
correspondence was picked up, Aviva dealt with this as a complaint. If Mr B had spoken to
them, he could have made it clear that while he was complaining, he also needed an
engineers visit arranged urgently.
Mr B has told us that he made numerous calls to Aviva, but Aviva dont have any record of
calls made after 18 August 2020, until he called them on 6 October 2020.
While Mr B says he was told the furniture would need to be moved out of his living room,
Avivas notes state the engineer said the room might need to be cleared if the water flowproblem couldnt be cleared with a gallo gun. It appears that there may have been a
misunderstanding about the steps Mr B needed to take. But given that hes told us his wife
was using a wheelchair following surgery, I think it would have been sensible for him to wait
until he had a further appointment before clearing his living room. Particularly as hes told us
this meant his wife couldnt use her wheelchair.
Aviva have told us that the compensation they offered Mr B was based on their engineers
misdiagnosis of the cause of the problem with his water supply, their failure to book a follow
up appointment, the delay in resolving the problem and what he told them about his wifes
condition.
I dont think the £1,250 Aviva offered Mr B is unreasonable. Particularly as I think the
situation would have been resolved far more quickly if Mr B had called Aviva, rather than
emailed and writing to them after 18 August 2020. In a pandemic I think its reasonable to
assume that customers with an emergency situation will call. In saying this I dont intend to
suggest Aviva didnt get things wrong, they did. But I think Avivas offer acknowledges the
mistakes that they made.
Mr B has said a lot about the impact the lack of water had on his wifes recovery from her
surgery. Hes told us that shed had amputations of her feet, and has needed further
amputations, due to infections she developed as she wasnt able to keep her feet clean. But
we havent seen any medical evidence providing details of the treatment shed had, or
confirming that she suffered from infections and what caused these.
When asked to provide such evidence Mr B told us that it should be obvious that a lack of
water would lead to bacterial infections. And he couldnt ask overworked doctors, in a
pandemic to provide details of his wifes treatment. As Mr B has said were not medical
experts and we cant make any assumptions about her condition or treatment, or the impact
a lack of running water may have had on this.
But if Mr B wants us to consider this as part of his complaint, I think its perfectly reasonable
to ask him to provide some medical evidence confirming the details of her condition and
treatment. I think its reasonable to assume that she was under the care of a consultant who
would have been writing to her GP to keep them updated on her condition. Its usual for
these letters to be copied to the patient. So we dont need a medical report written especially
for us. If Mr B provides copies of any correspondence about his wifes condition, well
consider this.
But in the absence of any further evidence I think the offer of £1,250 made by Aviva was
reasonable. So I wont be asking them to do anything further.
So my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
The parties had until 9 October 2021 to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further evidence they wanted me to consider.
Aviva have told us that they accept my provisional decision.
Mr B didnt respond until 10 October 2021. He apologised for the delay, saying this was due 
to illness and his wife requiring palliative care. He asked for a further two weeks to reply, 
which I agreed.
Mr B then contacted us on 16 October 2021 saying that hes not happy with my provisional 
decision.  and has said the following: -He believes that Ive already made a decision in favour of Aviva.
He doesnt understand why hes received a decision referring to Aviva, when he dealt 
with another business.
He believes I havent considered the impact on his wife of having little or no water for 
several months.
He believes Ive been totally unsympathetic to his wifes situation and the problems 
resulting from her disability, having no water and the psychological effect this has 
had on his family.
He believes the number of calls, emails and letters he sent to Aviva begging them to 
resolve the matter has been trivialised. He says he made numerous calls, sent 
several emails and many letters but still little was done.
He asks what hes expected to do in relation to medical evidence. He suggests were 
out of touch and that his complaint is against Aviva, so doctors shouldnt have to stop 
what theyre doing to write a report.
He asks if sending photographs of his wifes amputations would be acceptable.
While he accepts theres been a pandemic, he thinks this is an excuse that 
businesses are using as a get out of jail card.
He believes weve accepted what Aviva have told us and ignored what hes said. 
Weve said theres no evidence of calls to Aviva after 18 August 2021. But he says 
hes sent evidence to us of emails, letters and calls. And he going to contact his 
phone provided for evidence of the calls he made.
He doesnt accept that the delay in Aviva answering calls was due to the pandemic, 
and we should try calling them to see how long were on hold before the call is cut 
off.
Mr B asked for more time to provide evidence, and I agreed an extension of time until 25 
October 2021. But he was reminded that Id said in my provisional decision that I thought it 
was perfectly reasonable to ask him to provide some medical evidence regarding his wifes 
condition.
On 24 October 2021 Mr B responded by saying that the further time Id allowed to provide 
further evidence was deliberately restrictive in favour of Aviva. And that we were acting in a 
way that prevented this case being resolved. He also said that it was his wife who would 
have to request a medical report, she was too unwell and had developed other conditions 
which prevented her from contacting her GP, and that a report could take up to 30 days to 
receive a report. 
On 25 October 2021 we contacted Mr B saying that we were sorry to hear about his wifes 
deteriorating health and understood that this must be distressing for them both. But Id said 
given the details hed provided of his wifes condition we believed shed be under the care of
a consultant. And its usual for consultants provide updates to a patients GP about their 
condition, and to copy these updates to a patient. I said if Mr B could provide copies of any 
consultants letters his wife had received, Id consider these. 
We also explained that his complaint had been set up against Aviva, as they underwrite his 
Plumbing and Drainage Plus policy. And we apologised if this hadnt been made clear to him 
before. 
Mr B was reminded that we can only consider a complaint based on the evidence weve 
seen, and we hadnt seen anything to show that Avivas delay in dealing with restoring his 
water, impacted on his wifes condition.We also said that we werent attempting to put obstacles in the path of resolving the 
complaint. The question of medical evidence was first raised in our investigators opinion 
which was sent to Mr B in April 2021. So he knew then that this was something we needed 
to consider his complaint further. And he hadnt told us whether his wife has any letters 
giving details of her condition. Hed simply told us how difficult he thought it would be to 
obtain a report.
Mr B was told that I was prepared to allow a further two weeks, until 8 November 2021, to 
provide any evidence he has regarding his wifes condition. But if he didnt have any such 
evidence, hed need to tell us when he expected to be able to provide it, before a further 
extension of time could be agreed.
We havent heard anything more from Mr B and the further extension of time I agreed has 
now expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision gives details of the evidence Ive considered in this case. Ive made 
it clear to the parties that I can only reach a decision on the evidence that Ive seen.
I understand that Mr B and his family would have found it difficult coping with a limited water 
supply. I also appreciate the difficulties trying to resolve this situation during a pandemic, 
when businesses were having to adapt to new ways of working. And consumers were finding 
it difficult to contact businesses when then needed to get work done and problems resolved.
 
Having said that Aviva have acknowledged that they got things wrong. So what Im 
considering is whether, based on the available evidence, the amount of compensation 
theyve offered Mr B is appropriate.
I understand that Mr B had difficulties contacting Aviva by telephone. Theyve told us that 
during the pandemic their phone lines were particularly busy, and I accept this. This isnt 
something that excuses poor customer service. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr B 
contacted Aviva by phone after the call he made on 18 August 2020, until he called them on 
6 October 2020. Mr B has said that hed provide evidence of calls that he made in this 
period, but he hasnt done so.
I havent changed my opinion that in an emergency situation the best way to contact Aviva 
was by telephone. Or that writing to, or emailing Aviva, at a time when businesses were 
struggling to cope with backlogs of correspondence, was the best way to get something 
done quickly.
I havent given more weight to the evidence provided by Aviva and dismissed what Mr B has 
told us. Ive considered everything thats been provided by the parties. Ive explained what 
further evidence I need from Mr B to enable me to review my findings, and Ive agreed two 
extensions of time to enable him to provide anything further he wants me to consider.
I dont agree that the time Mr B has been given to provide further evidence was 
unreasonable. He was aware in April 2021, when he received our investigators opinion, that 
we felt we needed to see medical evidence about his wifes medical condition, and the 
impact a lack of water may have had on this. And weve explained that were not medical 
experts, so we cant make assumptions about his wifes condition. When I granted the last extension of time Mr B was told that if he couldnt provide further 
evidence in the period Id given, hed need to let us know when he expected to be able to 
provide this evidence. But we havent heard further from him.
I can only consider this case on the basis of the evidence Ive seen. And based on this I 
havent changed my opinion that the £1250 Aviva offered Mr B for the distress and 
inconvenience he and his family had suffered is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr Bs claim against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman