DRN-3187983
The complaint
Mr G complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) havent closed his account 
despite his requests. 
What happened
Mr G holds a credit facility of £5,000 with Creation. Creation refer to this as a Your Plan 
account. Mr G purchased a television from a store and used his Creation account to pay for 
this. Mr G says when the store delivered the television the drivers were rude and drove away 
without delivering his television. 
Mr G then called Creation on 20 October 2020 to complain. The phone note says Mr G 
wasnt happy with the delivery drivers, he says they arrived before the expected delivery 
time, they were rude and then refused to deliver the television and took it away. The note 
says Mr G wanted the purchase cancelled and Creation referred him to the store. Creation 
note Mr Gs desired outcome is to cancel the finance and to receive compensation. Creation 
then wrote to Mr G on 23 October and confirmed they understand his complaint is that hes 
unhappy with the service received from the store and he wants his agreement cancelled. 
Creation then respond to Mr Gs complaint on 14 December and say they understand hes 
unhappy that his agreement hasnt been cancelled and the service provided by the store. 
Creation confirm the agreement was cancelled in October and ask Mr G to note that 
cancellations have to be sent through to them by the store and they cant process them 
without instructions from the store. In relation to the service provided by the store, Creation 
provide contact details for the complaints department at the store.  
Mr G emailed Creation on 17 December and said he wasnt happy with their response. He 
said he asked Creation, during his call in October, to close his account but, having checked 
his credit file, he could see it was still showing as open. Mr G asked for his Creation account 
to be closed. Creation emailed Mr G on 30 December to say the email address used by him 
to send his email on 17 December didnt match the email they held for him on their records, 
so they asked him to contact them by phone to close his account. They said this was for 
security purposes. Creation then wrote to Mr G the same day and said they understand he 
wants to close his account but they cant see this was requested previously. They say if     
Mr G had made this request to the store then Creation wouldnt have been aware of this and 
wouldnt be able to proceed without Mr Gs authorisation. 
Creation asked Mr G to call them to close the account or to email them using the email 
address they have for him on their records (which they provide in their letter).  
 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Mr G and Creation on 22 November 2021. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Mr Gs account and credit limit 
I think its important for me to firstly address the issue about Mr Gs credit limit with 
Creation. I can see our investigator says Mr G already had an account with a credit 
facility of £5,000 but was then, unnecessarily, given a second account with a credit 
facility of £3,000 for the purchase of the television. 
I can see Mr Gs credit file shows his Creation account with a limit of £5,000. His 
credit file shows another account with a company with an almost similar name. The 
credit limit on this account is for £3,000. Creation say they have carried out a search 
of their systems but they can only find one account which Mr G holds with them  
that being the Your Plan account with a credit limit of £5,000. They confirm Mr G 
doesnt hold a second account with them with a credit limit of £3,000. Creation say 
the account with a £3,000 credit limit appears to be a credit card account which is 
something they offer as part of their portfolio of lending. They say they carried out a 
search to see if they could find a credit card account for Mr G but they couldnt find 
any records. They say this suggests its an old account which has now been archived 
 and they say this is reinforced by the fact that the credit file shows a zero balance 
on that account.  
Creation have provided system notes which show Mr G holds a Your Plan account. 
And, he has had two agreements on this account. The first was in March 2020 and 
relates to an item Mr G purchased for £369. This was paid off by Mr G in August 
2020. The second agreement started on 14 October 2020 and relates to the 
purchase of a television for around £300. The system notes show this agreement 
was cancelled by the store on 22 October. 
Creations system notes dont show Mr G having two credit limits  there only 
appears to be one limit for £5,000. Im persuaded this is the case as, at the time of 
the first agreement, the system notes show Mr Gs credit limit and available credit as 
£5,000. The first agreement then comes to an end with Mr G paying the balance. 
Then, at the time of the second agreement, Mr Gs credit limit is still £5,000 but his 
available spend is now £4,700  this shows the price of the television has been 
deducted from a credit limit of £5,000. So, I dont think Mr G has two accounts with 
Creation. There were two agreements on the same account, but the credit limit has 
always remained at £5,000. 
Mr Gs request for his account to be closed     
The terms and conditions of Mr Gs account says he or Creation can close the 
account by giving written notice to the other. 
The information Ive seen shows Creation did receive a written request from Mr G to 
close his account but this was on 17 December. Creation didnt close the account at 
this point as the email they receive isnt from the email address they hold for Mr G. 
Ive looked at the email address they hold for Mr G and it is different to the email 
address Mr G uses to send his request on 17 December. Its only a subtle difference 
but the fact remains its from an email address different to the one Creation hold. So, 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Creation to ask Mr G to either call or email from 
the address they hold for him in order to close his account. 
Its not clear whether Creation have now closed this account but if Mr G still wishes 
for Creation to close his account then he will need to let Creation know through the 
communication channels they have suggested. 
I am sorry to hear about Mr Gs experience on the day his television was delivered 
but I can only look at his complaint about Creation and not the store. Mr G will need 
to raise these with the store if he hasnt done so already. So, subject to any further comments from Mr G or Creation, my provisional decision was that 
I was minded to not uphold this complaint. 
Following my provisional decision, Creation have responded to say they dont have any 
further comments to make. Mr G has responded and says he doesnt agree with the 
decision. He says Creation have wasted his time and didnt remove the accounts when he 
asked them to. He says he wants compensation for the false impression created on his 
credit file and giving him an unnecessary credit limit of £8,000 to carry out a purchase of 
£300. As both parties have responded, I dont see any reason to delay my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.  
In relation to Mr Gs comments, I do acknowledge Mr G feels his time has been wasted but I 
cant say Creation have refused to remove his account. The information Ive seen shows 
Creation have a process which customers need to follow to close their account. Mr G has 
followed this process by requesting in writing for his account to be closed but I dont think its 
unreasonable for Creation not to have done this given the concern they have following the 
request being from an email address they dont have on record. I think Creation have then 
set out reasonable options for Mr G to provide verification in order to close his account.  
I note Mr Gs request for compensation but I would only consider awarding this if I find 
Creation have made an error which has had an impact on Mr G. I cant say thats the case 
here as the evidence I have seen shows Mr G holds one account with Creation with a credit 
limit of £5,000. I cant see Mr G was given a second account with an additional credit limit of 
£3,000. So, I cant say any error by Creation has created a false impression on Mr Gs credit 
file. So, I wont be asking Creation to pay any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman