DRN-2854772
The complaint
Mr Es complaint is about how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with his home 
emergency insurance claim. 
IPA uses intermediaries to administer its cover. For ease, references to IPA include the acts 
or omissions of those intermediaries.
What happened
Around April 2021, Mr E notified a claim on his home emergency policy due to issues 
with his central heating. IPA sent an engineer to check the problem. They reported 
that the room thermostat wasnt controlling the boiler and was probably disconnected 
 but the home still had hot water and heating. IPA declined the claim.
Mr E says IPAs engineer was incompetent and unprofessional. And that, since their 
visit, his heating has been getting quite warm. He thinks IPA should send another 
engineer.
When he complained, IPA said he could get a second opinion from his own engineer. 
And if they found its engineer had been incorrect, it would send a new one. But 
otherwise, it maintained that it wouldnt take further action. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr E referred the matter to our service. After 
investigating, our investigator concluded that IPA had considered the claim fairly. 
Mr E has requested an ombudsmans decision. Hes confirmed he has nothing 
further to add  and wants the case to be reviewed using the previous information 
hes submitted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr E holds home emergency cover with IPA. Ive checked the policy terms and 
conditions, and these define a home emergency as:
A sudden unexpected event, which in the insurers opinion requires 
immediate action to:
a. Prevent damage or further damage to your home; or
b. Make your home safe or secure or habitable
IPA has declined Mr Es claim as it doesnt consider the problems hes reported to 
meet the definition of a home emergency. The main impact hes told us about is that 
his heating comes on hotter, and that his fuel bills have gone up. Whilst these are 
understandably issues he wants to resolve, Ive seen nothing from his testimony, nor 
from the engineer, to suggest the heating issues were/are damaging his home or 
making it unsafe, unsecure, or uninhabitable  as would be needed for the claim to 
be covered. 
Im also satisfied IPA has taken reasonable steps to verify the claim by sending an 
engineer, whose professional opinion its entitled to rely on. Without comparable 
expert evidence to challenge their conclusions, Im not persuaded it would be fair to 
direct IPA to send another engineer. Overall, Im satisfied it acted fairly in declining 
the claim and refusing to send a new engineer at its own cost.
Mr E has queried whether IPA should treat the heating coming on hotter as a new 
issue, given that he says it started after the engineer visited. But IPA maintains that 
the issue hes describing wouldnt constitute a home emergency. In line with the 
policy terms and my reasoning above, I consider that a reasonable conclusion. So 
Im not persuaded IPA has a contractual obligation to fix this issue. 
Nor has Mr E been able to show that IPA should otherwise be held liable, such as by 
substantiating  on balance  that its engineers negligence caused or exacerbated 
the problem (as he seems to suggest might be the case, rather than it being a wholly 
new and separate issue). So this point doesnt affect my overall conclusion that Mr E 
hasnt lost out due to errors by IPA.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr E. But based on what Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to direct IPA to send a new engineer or take other remedial 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman