DRN-3419276
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the handling of his car insurance claim by Soteria Insurance Limited,
trading as Co-op insurance (Soteria).
What happened
Mr K had car insurance with Soteria. In late October 2020 Mr Ks car was vandalised and so 
he raised a claim.
Soteria instructed an approved repairer but the claim was closed a few months later. Soteria 
said this was because the repairer and Soteria had had difficulties contacting Mr K. 
But around this time Mr K raised two complaints about Soteria covering the service hed 
experienced when raising his claim. This included:
The lack of contact hed received.
The delay to the repair of his car.
The lack of a replacement vehicle for the duration of the repair.
Incorrect information being given in relation to the replacement vehicle.
Premium costs.
Soteria issued two final response letters (FRLs), one on 20 November 2020 and the other 
on 8 December 2020, which addressed these complaint points.
Mr K spoke with Soteria again in April 2021 and explained hed been ill and so hadnt been
in a position to pursue the claim. The claim was reopened, and the following then occurred:
On 13 May 2021, following discussions with Mr K, a repairer was appointed.
On 18 May 2021, Mr K sent the repairer images of the damage to his car at its 
request. The repairer needed to send Soteria an estimate of the repair costs for 
approval before work could begin.
On 20 May 2021 Mr K explained to Soteria that not all the damage was visible and 
on 24 May 2021 he suggested a physical inspection might be more appropriate.
On 28 May 2021 estimated repair costs were provided to Soteria based on the 
images Mr K sent.
On 3 June 2021 Soteria told Mr K that given the unknown damage not visible on the 
images, Soteria decided to have Mr Ks car inspected by an independent engineer 
before approving the repair.
On 9 June 2021 Mr Ks car was inspected.
On 16 June 2021 Soteria received a copy of the inspection report.
On 17 June 2021 Soterias in-house engineers reviewed the report alongside the 
repairer estimate and noted there were numerous areas of damage not included in 
the estimated costs. They advised the repairer would need to physically inspect the 
vehicle and provide a new estimate of costs for Soterias approval.
On 7 July 2021 Soteria notified the repairer of this, sending the independent engineer 
report and the in-house engineers request.
Mr K emailed Soteria about his claim requesting an update on 10 and 28 June 2021 but 
didnt hear back. At the beginning of July 2021, he raised a further complaint about delays to 
the repair.
Soteria investigated Mr Ks new complaint and issued a FRL about that in August 2021. 
It upheld the complaint, agreeing there were delays and apologising that the advice of its in-
house engineers wasnt actioned sooner. It paid Mr K £75 in compensation for this. It later 
confirmed this was for its handling of the claim since April 2021 only.
Mr K remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our Service. He told us he was 
unhappy his insurance claim hadnt been settled given it had been ongoing since 2020. 
He also stressed that his efforts to contact Soteria had gone unanswered. Mr K also raised 
concerns about Company L, the administrator of his policy. And about difficulties hed 
encountered with the hire car provision under his policy.
Mr K also explained he had serious health issues and the lack of a car was presenting him 
with difficulties attending weekly hospital appointments. Mr K said that his basic travel 
expenses were costing £8 a day so he didnt feel the £75 Soteria had paid him was 
sufficient. He explained he was facing significant financial struggles which meant this 
additional cost had a profound impact on him. Mr K felt Soteria should give reasons for 
delays. And in resolution to the complaint Mr K wanted Soteria to settle the claim, 
compensate him for the delays and reimburse his travel costs.
Soteria said that the complaint points that it considered in 2020 had been referred to our 
Service too late and asked for these matters to be time barred. In relation to Mr Ks concerns 
about the claim since April 2021, Soteria felt it had resolved the complaint fairly. It told us 
that the repairer had had difficulties contacting Mr K to get the vehicle booked in for an 
inspection to allow the further estimate to be given to Soteria. It said it had once again 
closed the claim as a result. It confirmed it would be happy to consider repairs to the vehicle 
but required Mr Ks cooperation to arrange this.
Whilst our Service was considering the complaint, Mr K continued to periodically liaise with 
Soteria in relation to his ongoing claim which was reopened. He told our Investigator about 
further issues he was having and the fact he remained unhappy. He asked our Service to 
issue a view on how his entire claim should be settled as he felt it had been ongoing for too 
long.
In response, our Investigator explained that there were limitations on what they could look at. 
They told Mr K they could only comment on the complaint points that had been raised with 
Soteria already. Which means they couldnt issue a view on anything that happened after the 
FRL issued in August 2021 and they werent able to comment on how the claim should be 
settled.
Our Investigator also said that they couldnt consider the issues raised in the FRLs sent to 
Mr K on 20 November 2020 and the 8 December 2020 as these had been brought to our 
Service out of time.
Our Investigator said they could consider the complaint issues covered in the FRL from 
August 2021. After looking into things they were of the view Soteria didnt need to do 
anything further to put things right. They agreed there were unnecessary delays but said the 
£75 compensation offered was fair in the circumstances.Mr K disagreed with their findings. Mr K made a number of points including the fact that the 
Investigators findings didnt give a resolution to the ongoing claim. He stressed that 18 
months had elapsed and his claim remained unsettled.
So, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Soteria has since clarified that on 12 April 2022 Mr Ks car was deemed a total loss. It said it 
had tried to contact Mr K to discuss the valuation and settlement without success. Yet Mr K 
said he hadnt heard from Soteria since March 2022 when it said it would arrange an 
inspection and the repair of his car. He said he only found out Soteria had written the car off 
when it wrote to him in August 2022 and confirmed it would pay him £2,800. However, Mr K 
also told our Service back in January 2022 that the repairer had told him the damage was 
beyond economical repair.
I asked Soteria if I could consider Mr Ks further concern about delays to the resolution of his 
claim up until the point a decision to write-off his vehicle was reached  it agreed.
Mr K has since told our Service he is unhappy with the decision to write off his car as he 
feels it is repairable. Hes also told our Service hes rejected Soterias claim payment as he 
thinks Company L is responsible for his claim. He reiterated that hed never heard of Soteria 
and said that Company L has paid his hire costs and part of the claim.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach a different outcome to the
investigator. So, I shared my provisional findings with Soteria and Mr K so they both had the 
opportunity to make any comments or provide further evidence. In brief, my findings were 
that Soteria ought to have arranged a physical inspection of the vehicle sooner and so it had 
made an error and delayed things. Overall, I felt Soteria was responsible for around five 
months of delay. But I felt the evidence indicated Mr K had continued access to a car during 
this time and so I was of the view a further £125 compensation was fair in the 
circumstances.
Soteria accepted my provisional findings. Mr K made no further comment. 
Im now in a position to issue a final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was really sorry to read about the very difficult circumstances Mr K has found himself in 
over recent years. I dont doubt that having an ongoing unsettled claim around this time must 
have been incredibly difficult. I want to reassure him that I have carefully considered the 
evidence hes provided our Service about this and would also like to take the opportunity to 
wish him the best moving forward.
That being said, my decision wont address every point or comment made by either Mr K or 
Soteria. I mean no discourtesy by this, and Id like to reassure all parties that I have 
considered all the comments and evidence theyve provided to our Service. But my decision 
will only address what I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint.
What I wont consider in this decisionI think it would be helpful to start by clearly setting out what I will and wont be looking at in 
this decision, as well as the reasons for this.
Id like to confirm that this decision will only consider the actions of Soteria, the business 
responsible for underwriting Mr Ks policy. Im conscious Mr K has said he didnt know who 
Soteria was until our Service started looking into his complaint. However, Mr K has been 
dealing with Soteria throughout his claim, its simply that it has been trading under the name 
Co-op insurance.
Mr K has suggested it would be more appropriate to hold another business responsible for 
the overall handling of his claim, Company L. It is important that in any claim involving 
multiple businesses, careful consideration is given to who the correct business to set the 
complaint up against is. Here Im satisfied the correct respondent business for complaints 
about the handling of the repairs is Soteria. I say this noting I have received no evidence 
Company L has paid part of the claim and Soteria has accepted its responsibility for this.
That being said, I note Mr K also has concerns over the hire car provided. And whilst I 
appreciate Mr K has also raised these concerns with Soteria, the evidence suggests that the 
hire car arrangement was a matter for another company and not something Soteria was 
responsible for. So any concerns Mr K has about this would need to be raised with the 
responsible business separately, as this decision is only about matters which Soteria is 
directly responsible for.
Similarly, Mr K is also unhappy with the overall sale of his policy given the number of issues 
that have emerged over the course of this claim; Mr K has mentioned that our Service 
should ensure the regulator investigates Company L. However, the sale of the policy is not 
something Soteria is responsible for. So its not something I can consider here. If Mr K is 
unhappy with the sale of his policy, he should raise this with the appropriate business in the 
first instance. If he remains unhappy with its response then he may be able to bring his 
complaint to our Service.
I appreciate Mr K wants our Service to bring his entire claim to a resolution. And given how 
long things have been ongoing, I can completely understand why hed want us to do this. 
But our Service isnt free to consider every complaint that is brought to us. There are rules 
that govern how our Service operates known as the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules. 
These can be found within the FCA handbook. There are a couple of rules that are 
particularly relevant to my consideration of Mr Ks concerns.
The first is DISP rule 2.8.1. This states that our Service can only consider a complaint if the 
respondent business has already sent the complainant its FRL or summary resolution 
communication. Thats unless the complaint has already been raised with the business and 
the relevant timescales for a response have passed or the business involved agrees we can 
look into things.
Whilst Soteria has now agreed to my consideration of the delays to the claim up until the 
write off decision, Im aware Mr K remains unhappy with the decision to write off the car. 
However, I cannot look into this as this concern hasnt been raised with Soteria and it has 
only agreed to our Service looking into matters until 12 April 2022.
DISP 2.8.2 is another rule of relevance to this complaint. This says our Service cannot 
consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to us more than six months after the date on 
which the respondent business sent the FRL, unless the business consents or the failure to 
refer the matter in time was a result of exceptional circumstances.Mr K would like us to look at the entire handling of his claim since it was raised in 2020. 
This covers the complaints raised in late 2020 which Soteria responded to in letters dated 
20 November 2020 and the 8 December 2020. Having reviewed these letters, Im satisfied 
both met the requirements of a FRL outlined in DISP 1.6.2 and therefore made it clear that 
Mr K needed to refer the complaint to our Service within six months.
But Mr K brought his complaint to our Service on 15 December 2021. Which means his 
complaint was brought more than six months after both these FRLs were issued. 
Soteria hasnt consented to our Service considering these parts of his complaint. 
Which means that under the DISP rules, the only way I could consider them is if the reason 
Mr K didnt bring his concerns sooner was the result of exceptional circumstances. 
And whilst I recognise Mr K has been unwell and provided our Service with evidence of this, 
Im not satisfied the threshold for exceptional circumstances has been met. The bar for 
exceptional circumstances is a high one  the example given in the DISP rules is that of a 
consumer being incapacitated. Mr K has told us his claim and dealings with Soteria were not 
constrained by his medical treatments. On the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded Mr K 
was incapacitated or incapable of raising these complaints in the six months after 
20 November 2020 and the 8 December 2020.
For these reasons, I cannot look at Soterias handling of the entire claim or delays that took 
place in 2020. Instead I can only consider the issues addressed by the August 2021 FRL 
and the delays to the claim handling from then until the write off decision was made in 
April 2022.
Handling of the claim in May, June and July 2021
My role here is to look at the complaint and decide if I think Soteria has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. If I think a mistake has been made, I will then look at the impact of this and 
what the business has done to put things right to assess whether I think any further action 
needs to be taken in the circumstances. It isnt my role to punish businesses.
Looking at the timeline of events, I can see in the five days after the appointment of the 
repairer in May 2021, someone had made contact with Mr K and asked for photos and 
information. Mr K sent photos and it then took the repairer ten days to prepare an estimate 
and a further five for this estimate to be reviewed by the insurer and a decision made to 
physically inspect the car. The inspection of Mr Ks car then occurred within a week. It then 
took a further week for the report to be prepared and provided to Soteria who reviewed the 
content within a day. None of these timescales seem unreasonable to me, albeit I appreciate 
they may not have been as swift as Mr K would have liked.
However, there was then a clear delay of two and a half weeks where Soteria failed to action 
the decision of its in-house engineer.
In addition, based on the information Mr K was giving Soteria in early May 2021, I do think 
the need to physically inspect the car to get a reliable repair quote ought to have been 
identified sooner. Some of the areas missing from the quote were a dent and a scratched 
door handle  both of which Mr K told Soteria about and said werent photographing well. 
Mr K had also already identified the electrical damage to the insurer which is one of the 
aspects Soteria said warranted physical inspection to confirm it was related to the 
vandalism. I would also note that Soterias own notes from the beginning of April 2021 
suggest it was advised to physically inspect the damage when assessing the claim. All of 
this leads me to believe that a physical inspection ought to have been arranged straight 
away rather than the repairer initially relying on photographs to quote. Which means I do 
think there was a further delay here.From the contact notes and emails Ive read from around that time, its clear Mr K wasnt 
prepared to bring his car in until he had a replacement car. The repairer didnt have any 
courtesy cars available on 13 May 2021 and Mr K wasnt able to secure his hire car from 
Company L until 18 May 2021; so, I dont think its likely any drop off would have occurred 
before then. I think its likely Mr K would have dropped the car off within a couple of days of 
having a suitable hire car. I say this noting that whilst there do appear to have been some 
communication issues between Mr K and the repairer, which Ill return to, in May 2021 he 
was regularly liaising with Soteria and the repairer in an effort to resolve things and even 
offered to drive his car in for a physical inspection.
I think its reasonable to suggest an inspection ought to have been possible within a week of 
drop off, so by 27 May 2021. This would have been three weeks earlier than an inspection 
actually took place. And because the repairer would have carried out this inspection, I think it 
likely it would have then been in a position to provide an accurate quote to the insurer much 
sooner. I note it took ten days to provide a quote previously, so Im of the view the repairer 
could have provided a quote for Soterias approval by 6 June 2021.
Of course, Mr Ks car wasnt actually inspected until some time later, with a write off decision 
being made on 12 April 2022.
Mr K feels this further extensive delay is also Soterias responsibility. However, Soteria says 
Mr K stopped engaging with the repairer which is why the inspection didnt take place for so 
long. I would only hold Soteria accountable for delays I think it was fairly responsible for. 
So, Ive looked at the evidence provided to try to understand whether Soteria was 
responsible for the ongoing delay.
Handling of the claim from July 2021 until April 2022
Ive considered the available evidence, including what Soteria has told me, the claim notes it 
has provided and what Mr K has said. Soteria has noted that Mr K had a responsibility to 
engage with the repairer to progress the claim and I dont disagree with this. But Mr Ks 
account is that he was attempting to do so and the repairer wasnt engaging with him. This is 
at odds with Soterias account.
Given I have very conflicting accounts from both parties and limited evidence, its difficult to 
say for certain what did happen. Ive based my findings on the evidence I do have and what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened in the circumstances.
The claim notes indicate there were efforts to get in contact with Mr K via telephone and 
email between 8 July and 19 August 2021 which were unsuccessful. Mr K then rang and 
spoke with Soteria on 23 August 2021 in response to a letter he was sent on 19 August 2021 
saying he needed to get in contact or the claim would be closed. Whilst Mr K initially 
suggested he hadnt received any contact in the interim, hes since told our Service he did 
have a missed call. So, I do think the evidence tends to support Soterias account here 
which means Im not persuaded it can fairly be held responsible for the delays during this 
time.
That being said, I can see Mr K then spoke with the approved repairer on 23 August 2021 
and rang Soteria back the following day because the claim still wasnt being progressed. 
This indicates that Mr K was, at that time, engaging with the claim and trying to resolve 
things.
The claim notes around this time also suggest the repair garage was confused about what it 
should be doing with the claim and it didnt seem to be aware that a further physical 
inspection was required.The next time it appears Mr K contacted Soteria was on 27 September 2021 as he was 
unhappy nothing had progressed. There is a claim note prior to this on 7 September 2021 
which suggests Mr K wasnt responding to the approved repairer, but Ive not been provided 
with any other supporting evidence to show contact was attempted. This entry doesnt say 
how Mr K was contacted and it is the only entry for the entire month. So, here Im not 
persuaded that Mr K was responsible for the lack of progression during this period. I say this 
noting that on 27 September 2021 the repair garage told Soteria it was awaiting approval for 
its quote. However, the notes also indicate the quote it had provided still didnt include all of 
the reported damage.
Throughout October 2021 the claim notes seem to indicate that Soteria was waiting for the 
repair garage to provide an amended quote and the garage was awaiting approval from 
Soteria. This seems to have been a breakdown in communication between Soteria and its 
appointed representatives, not between it and Mr K.
On 30 and 31 October 2021 both Soteria and the approved repairer noted theyd had no 
contact from Mr K, but it also looks like authorisation for the repairs still wasnt provided by 
Soteria until 15 November 2021, so I dont think any lack of contact from Mr K during this 
time was the reason for the delay.
That being said, between the beginning of December 2021 until February 2022 the claim 
notes indicate Soteria and the approved repairer tried to contact Mr K on multiple occasions, 
leaving voicemails and messages but receiving no response. During this time Mr K 
contacted our Service and later suggested he didnt intend to speak to the business again 
until wed addressed his complaint. So, I think this adds weight to Soterias account that it 
wasnt hearing back from Mr K.
It wasnt until Mr K got in contact with Soteria in March 2022 that the claim was able to 
continue to progress. This meant that by 1 April 2022 the car was inspected and on 12 April 
2022 it was deemed a total loss.
Looking at the broad timeline based on the available evidence, it seems to me Soteria cant 
be held responsible for the delays between 8 July and 23 August 2021, nor between mid- 
November 2021 until March 2022. Which means of the ten months, I think Soteria is fairly 
responsible for a delay of around five months.
I appreciate Soteria has said that it feels Mr K is ultimately responsible for the delays to the 
claim given he didnt engage in 2020 but as outlined above, I cannot consider the delays in 
2020 as part of this decision. Id also note that regardless of who was responsible for the 
earlier delays, Im satisfied that I can fairly consider the additional delays here.
The impact of the delays
So, Ive then thought about what impact the delays Soteria was responsible for had on Mr K 
and what fair compensation for this would be.
Mr K has told us that his circumstances made these delays particularly stressful. He has told 
us about how the lack of access to his car has meant that he has incurred additional travel 
costs at a time when he was in significant financial difficulties. He has also mentioned the 
difficulties hes had attending hospital appointments without a car and he provided extensive 
medical evidence of the health conditions he has.
However, whilst Mr K has said he was unable to drive his car as it was unroadworthy 
because it didnt lock properly, I can see that between the inspection in June 2021 and the further inspection in April 2022, the cars mileage had increased by 3,387. So, I do think 
Mr K continued to use his vehicle during this time. This means I will not compensate for any 
loss, distress or inconvenience caused by the lack of access to a car during this time. Im 
also not persuaded Soterias actions caused Mr K any financial loss.
I do think it would have been upsetting to have this claim ongoing for so long, particularly 
taking into account Mr Ks health. And whilst I think the evidence indicates Mr Ks actions 
have also delayed things, I think its fair Soteria compensates him for the delays it is 
responsible for. Given this, I think it should increase its compensation offer to £200 in total, 
by paying Mr K an additional £125.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct Soteria Insurance Limited, trading as Co-op 
insurance, to pay Mr K a further £125 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
delays in the handling of his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman