DRN-3408568
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (trading as Homeserve but who I will 
refer to as Aviva) failed to take any action to repair a damaged pipe that linked his house to 
its septic tank, following a claim he made on his home emergency policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been clearly set out in 
our investigators two views. As the facts are not in dispute, I will only set out the key points 
in the timeline before focusing on giving my reasons for my decision. 
In October 2020, Mr N contacted Aviva to discuss transferring his home emergency policy to 
his new property. After completing the purchase in November 2020, Mr and Mrs N lived in 
temporary accommodation before moving into their new property in December 2020. 
On 11 December 2020, Mr N contacted Aviva to arrange for an engineer to attend the 
property and investigate some concerns he had about the drainage pipework that connected 
the house to the septic tank. During his visit the following day, the engineer didnt identify 
any blockages, and after receiving his report, Aviva declined to carry out any repairs to the 
pipe. Aviva explained that anything which had occurred prior to the address being changed 
on the policy would be deemed to be pre-existing. As the issue Mr N was seeking to claim 
for, had been identified in a report dated September 2020, Aviva concluded it was pre-
existing so was excluded from cover under the policy. Also, as the issue was caused by mis-
shapen pipes, Aviva said it wouldnt be covered as any rectification of the issue would be 
deemed to be remedial work. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint, so he requested an ombudsmans decision 
on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first like to explain that although Ive not addressed each of the points Mr N has made, I 
have carefully considered all of the information hes provided, including his recollection of 
events. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to Mr N, but as we are an informal service, Ive 
focused my decision on the key points relevant to Mr Ns complaint. 
To decide Mr Ns complaint, Ive considered two questions. First, was Avivas decision to 
decline Mr Ns claim in line with the policy terms and conditions and fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances? And second, did the way Aviva communicate with Mr N about his policy 
and his claim cause him to suffer some distress and inconvenience that he should be 
compensated for?
Avivas decision not to repair damage claimed for
Ive first considered whether Aviva have fairly declined Mr Ns claim.
The policy terms and conditions for the home emergency policy set out what is covered by 
the policy. Ive copied the relevant provisions below, for ease of reference.
On the first page of the terms and conditions it says:
This policy provides insurance cover in relation to emergencies and in relation to 
other domestic incidents. These elements are as follows: Plumbing and Drainage
The details of what is covered by the policy are included in section B Policy Coverage:
What is Covered?
Plumbing and Drainage: You are covered for incidents relating to your plumbing and 
drainage. The engineer will resolve the immediate problem by repairing or replacing 
leaking pipes; clearing blockages..
Examples of claims covered includes:
Unblocking of a waste or rainwater drain, and repairs to a blocked or leaking 
drainage pipe.
Under the section What isnt Covered? the policy lists:
l) where there is no evidence of a blockage, a leak or damage on the water supply 
pipe;
In the definitions section Emergency is defined as: Sudden and unforeseen damage to 
something in your property covered by your policy.
Property is defined as the private home, garage and domestic outbuildings.within the 
property boundary at the address shown on your policy scheduleThe extent of your 
property will be that which is wholly within your control and you are wholly responsible for.
The General Exclusions section for the policy states that Aviva will not be liable for: 
a) any item not forming part of your policy coverage as detailed in What is 
Covered?
b) any event, loss or damage arising from circumstances known to you before your 
policy start date
k) normal day-to-day maintenance of the items covered by your policy at your 
property, for which you are responsible
Mr N claimed for damage to the pipe which connected the house to the septic tank. 
Following his attendance at the property on 12 December 2020, Avivas engineer confirmed 
that there was no leak or blockage at the property so his view was there was no 
emergency as defined by the policy terms and conditions, meaning the policy didnt provide 
any cover for the issue Mr N had contacted Aviva about on 11 December 2020. 
However, Mr N believes the engineer failed to carry out the investigations that would be 
necessary to support that conclusion. Mr N also said that hes made claims on the policy, 
since 2015, for damage caused by events or issues that dont constitute an emergency. He 
has corresponded in some detail with our investigator about a number of matters regarding his claim, such as what investigations the engineer carried out when he visited the property 
and so on. However, I dont find those points directly relevant to the outcome of this 
complaint. What is key here, is whether the damage Mr N claimed for is covered by his 
policy.
While, a home emergency policy generally covers an emergency caused by a one-off event, 
Mr Ns policy also covers damage that was caused by a domestic incident. So, Mr N is 
correct in saying that it is not only emergency repairs that are covered by the policy. While 
emergency is defined in the policy terms and conditions, incident isnt, so I take the ordinary 
meaning of the word as the relevant definition, i.e., an instance of something happening; an 
event or occurrence. This is the first point at which Mr Ns claim and complaint fails. What 
Mr N was claiming for was damage that had been caused over a period of time, and likely 
due to a lack of proper maintenance. The policy terms and conditions expressly exclude 
cover in those circumstances.
The second point Ive considered is whether the issue claimed for was pre-existing. 
Again, there has been much discussion about what constitutes pre-existing in terms of 
what was known to Mr N, and when. Mr N said he wasnt aware of the full extent of the issue 
with the pipe until after he became the owner of the property, so he believes the issue 
shouldnt be considered to be pre-existing. However, the policy refers to: any event, loss or 
damage arising from circumstances known to you before your policy start date.
The policy start date was the date the ownership of the policy transferred into Mr Ns name, 
so, 23 November 2020. While Mr N believes the start date should be the date he originally 
took the policy out, in 2015, the definition of Property that Ive set out above refers to a 
property that a person is wholly responsible for. Mr N was wholly responsible for the property 
from 23 November 2020, so that is the date from which his new property was covered by the 
policy.
The drainage report dated 23 September 2020, obtained by Mr N, while carrying out his pre-
purchase due diligence on the property, said: 
The pipe existing manhole 1 continues to be 100mm salt glazed for the first 0.9 
metres. At that point there is a change in the make up of the pipework to pitch bre. 
Pitch bre pipes were installed in the 60s and 70s as a cheaper, lightweight 
alternative to salt glaze. Unfortunately they bulge, blister and deteriorate internally 
and can also collapse when under external pressure too making them a nightmare to 
deal with. We frequently see issues related to them and they always require 
replacing. At 1.4 metres there is a clear bulge in the bottom of the pipe preventing the 
camera from travelling further down the line. I was able to remove the camera skid 
set (which allows the camera to centre) and got slightly further down the line, again 
there was evidence of the pipe deteriorating and changing shape.
Later on, in the report it says: 
In some cases pipes are able to be lined or re lined without having to dig, but in this 
case and, given the road between the two manholes, my only suggestion would be to 
dig up and replace the entire run.
A further report provided by Mr N, after his purchase had completed, dated 14 April 2021 
said:
As mentioned before, the pipework is pitch fibre which we know has a tendency to 
squash down, changing shape in the process as it blisters and bulges. The pipe is in bad condition for the first couple of metres, the camera does not smoothly glide 
through the pipe at all, and at 2.94 m we see a large blister from the bottom of the 
pipe accounting for over two thirds of the pipes capacity.
Mr N has commented that as the pipe was buried underground, he didnt know the full extent 
of the issue until after hed purchased the property and had the more detailed survey carried 
out, in April 2021. However, the policy terms and conditions dont require all the details of the 
issue to be known, for it to be pre-existing. Rather, they refer to circumstances known to 
you. Having carefully considered all of the available evidence, Im satisfied that the state of 
the pitch fibre pipe was sufficiently known to Mr N, as detailed in the pre-purchase report, so 
as to alert him to the likelihood of it needing some remedial work. This is further supported 
by the early claim Mr N made on the policy, following his occupation of the new property. 
In summary, Im satisfied that Mr N didnt call an engineer out for an emergency, or an issue 
resulting from a domestic incident. Im also satisfied that the issue was a pre-existing issue 
with the property, circumstances of which were known to Mr N before the policy provided 
cover for his new property. So, I conclude that Avivas decision to decline to repair the pipe 
was made in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy. However, Mr N has 
said he was told he would be covered for pre-existing issues, on a call with Aviva, so his 
claim should have been accepted. Ive therefore next considered whether Avivas decision to 
decline Mr Ns claim was fair and reasonable in his circumstances. 
Ive listened to the call Mr N had with Avivas call handler, when he raised the question of 
whether pre-existing issues would be covered by the policy, following a transfer of the policy 
to his new property. Having done so I dont agree with his recollection of what was said on 
the call. Mr N recalls that the call handler told him that it was best for him to continue the 
existing policy, even while in temporary accommodation, because it put them in a better 
position in relation to potential defects in the new home. He recalls the call handler being 
clear and confident in what she said, and specific in confirming that he would be able to rely 
on the policy to cover pre-existing issues. However, having listened to the call, I disagree.
When Mr N spoke to Avivas call handler, four minutes and 30 seconds into the call he said: 
The pipe leading to septic tank has a problem and needs to be repaired so 
presumably it wouldnt cover that anyway, it would cover it once it was repaired, I 
assume?
The call handler sounded tentative to me, in her response. She said:
Its a difficult one  with the policies, once youve transferred it to your new address, 
the cover would continue, so if you had to make a claim thats fine. 
She then put Mr N on hold to clarify some of his questions with her manager. 
I accept that the response from the call handler may have created an expectation for Mr N, 
that he would be covered, and the resulting loss of expectation ought to perhaps be 
compensated for. However, I dont agree that it amounts to an extension of the policy terms 
on Avivas part, to cover pre-existing issues with the property. I also note that, at that time, in 
October 2020, Mr N was clearly aware there was an existing issue with the pipework that 
pre-dated his ownership of the property.
In summary, Mr N knew there were some issues with the pipe leading to the septic tank 
before he completed on his purchase of the property and before hed contacted Aviva to 
arrange a call out in relation to the damaged pipe. The policy terms and conditions expressly 
exclude cover in those circumstances. While the advice Mr N recalls being given during his call with Aviva in October 2020, may have led him to believe pre-existing issues would be 
covered by the policy, that doesnt mean they were. Taking everything into account, I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Aviva failed to act fairly and reasonably in declining Mr Ns 
claim.
Is Mr N due any compensation?
Ive next considered whether Aviva ought to pay Mr N any compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered due to the way his claim was handled.
I understand it was frustrating for Mr N to be given incorrect information during his call with 
Aviva, and I accept that hes suffered some disappointment due to the resulting loss of 
expectation. However, I think that the £100 Aviva offered Mr N, in their final response letter 
dated 2 March 2021, by way of apology for their communication failings fairly compensates 
him for any inconvenience hes suffered. I therefore dont uphold this complaint or make any 
award against Aviva Insurance Limited
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman