DRN-3648251
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as J has complained that Diamond Rocket Trading Ltd trading as 
Coversure (Brentwood) mis-sold J a business interruption insurance policy.
Mr A, a director of J, has brought the complaint on Js behalf. 
What happened
In 2019 J arranged a commercial insurance policy through Coversure, an insurance 
intermediary. The policy included business interruption insurance. J claimed on its policy 
after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic. 
The insurer agreed to pay Js claim, but it reduced the claim payment because it said J had 
been under-insured. As a result, the payment for Js claim of £100,000 (less the agreed 
£250 excess) was reduced to £80,519, leaving a shortfall of £19,231. J says it received the 
balance of the insurance payment on 1 September 2021.  
The reason for the shortfall was that Js turnover was estimated to be £250,000 per year but 
the sum insured for the 24-month indemnity period was also £250,000. The insurer told 
J that the sum insured should either have been £500,000 for the 24-month indemnity period, 
or alternatively £250,000 but for a 12-month indemnity period.
J complained that Coversure had mis-sold the policy. Coversure did not agree. It said that it 
had, as requested, provided cover on a like-for-like basis to Js previous policy while also 
enhancing some cover, including the business insurance sum insured. 
Unhappy with Coversures response, J brought its complaint to us. It said that it had opted to 
arrange its insurance with Coversure, which had offered a competitive premium. But J had 
recommended enhancements to Js previously held insurance policy and so J didnt accept 
that Coversure had simply offered a like-for-like policy. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She 
concluded that Coversure had not taken reasonable steps to ensure that Js cover was 
suitable. J had estimated its turnover at £250,000 and the cover provided of £250,000 for a 
24-month indemnity period was not consistent with Js demands and needs. So, she 
recommended that Coversure pay J the shortfall in its insurance claim payment of £19,231 
together with interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of the insurance claim 
payment until the date Coversure settled the shortfall. 
Coversure agreed to meet the shortfall of £19,231 but it disagreed about the 8% interest. In 
summary, it said this rate was punitive, unfair, and inappropriate in the context of a 
commercial dispute. It asked for an Ombudsman to review the interest award.  
J accepted our Investigators findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Coversure has accepted our Investigators findings and agreed to pay J the shortfall of 
£19,231 in its business interruption insurance claim. Therefore, this issue is no longer in 
dispute. But, for completeness, I should add that I think it is fair and reasonable for 
Coversure to pay the shortfall because it did not take reasonable steps to ensure the 
business interruption cover was suitable for Js demands and needs. 
The only issue that now remains for me to decide is whether and to what extent Coversure 
should pay interest on the insurance claim shortfall of £19,231. Ive considered Coversures 
arguments about a fair level of interest. 
In summary, Coversure has made the following points: it says that interest at 8% simple per 
annum is inconsistent with the rate a court might award in the context of a commercial 
dispute. Also, it says that interest is awarded at 8% only to unpaid judgment creditors. With 
the base rate being (previously) 1.25% an interest rate at 6.75% over base rate is 
uncommercial and would not put J back in the position it would have been but for any breach 
or negligence. Instead interest at this level would overcompensate J while being 
unreasonably punitive on Coversure. 
I accept that a court might reach a different outcome. But Im required to make a decision 
based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Our usual approach is to apply an interest rate of 8% simple per annum broadly to reflect the 
opportunity cost of being without the funds.
Ive considered Coversures arguments, but I think the relevant issue here is the opportunity 
cost of the lost funds to J. I cannot be certain about the cost to J of being deprived of the 
money because, as a community club, it might have used the funds in a variety of ways. In 
this case I dont consider that awarding interest at 8% would result in J being 
overcompensated. To award interest at 8% is not intended to be punitive but rather to reflect 
the loss of opportunity to J. 
Without any compelling reason to depart from our usual approach, I consider it fair and 
reasonable that Coversure pays J interest of 8% simple per annum from the date J received 
the balance of the claim payment to the date that Coversure makes the settlement payment 
to J. 
Putting things right
I have decided to uphold this complaint. 
To put things right Coversure must:
Pay to J the amount of £19,231 representing the shortfall in Js insurance claim 
payment due to the underinsurance, as Coversure has already agreed to do; and 
Add interest to the amount of £19,231 at a rate of 8% simple per annum from the 
date J received the balance of the claim payment (which J says was 1 September 
2021) to the date Coversure makes the settlement payment to J. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and I require Diamond Rocket 
Trading Ltd trading as Coversure (Brentwood) to take the steps Ive set out under Putting 
things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman