DRN-3520423
The complaint
Mr H complains about National Savings and Investments (NS&I) handling of his 
applications to purchase Premium Bonds and the service received when calling them.  
What happened
Mr H made two separate applications to purchase Premium Bonds for his niece. On both 
occasions, NS&I didnt complete the application and refunded Mr Hs funds to his account. 
On the third attempt, the application was completed. Mr H says, when his first two 
applications were declined, he complained as he wasnt told the funds would be returned to 
him and he had to make several phone calls to find out what was happening, but his calls 
werent returned. Mr H says he missed prize draws and NS&I say theyve dealt with this but 
Mr H isnt convinced they have.    
NS&I responded and explained the evidence of identity wasnt processed in time so they 
were unable to complete the application. NS&I accepted theyd received it within the 
required timeframe, so it shouldve been processed. NS&I apologised for not notifying Mr H 
the money had been returned to his account  they say in such situations they do send a 
letter to the customer who made the purchase. They say the request for evidence of identity 
was sent to the responsible person, but they cant be held responsible if this was lost by the 
postal service. They noted Mr H had called them multiple times and despite his request for a 
return call, these werent returned  this includes a return call by a manager. They said 
theyre able to follow a process called retrospective prize draw and once the application for 
Premium Bonds is complete, they will complete this process to see if there were any prizes 
won. NS&I said compensation of £75 had already been paid to Mr H and theyd arranged for 
a further payment of £50 to be made. 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Mr H and NS&I on 30 May 2022. In my provisional decision I said as follows:  
    
The Premium Bond applications
I can see Mr H made an application for £2,000 of Premium Bonds on 10 February 
2021. NS&I then sent out a letter dated 12 February to the responsible person 
explaining someone had bought Premium Bonds as a gift for their child and they now 
required proof of the childs identity to complete the application. They set out a list of 
identity documents and ask for one document from the list to be provided  one of 
the documents on the list is a certified copy of the childs birth certificate. NS&I say 
they need to receive a reply by 3 March. And, if they dont hear back by then, they 
wont be able to complete the application and will refund the money back to the 
person who purchased the gift. NS&I then write to the responsible person on 8 March 
to say they hadnt heard back within the required 21-day period so they cant accept 
the application. They say theyve refunded the purchase money to the account it 
came from. 
Mr H makes a further application on 13 March and NS&I send the same letter asking 
for documents to the responsible person on 15 March  they ask for these to be 
returned by 3 April. NS&I then send a letter dated 7 April explaining they cant accept 
the application and set out the same reasons as their letter dated 8 March. Mr H then 
applied again in May and the sale was completed following evidence of identity being 
received within the 21-day timeframe. 
In their letter requesting documents, NS&I do make it clear they require an 
identification document in order to complete the application. They also confirm the 
steps theyll take if they dont receive the information requested by the deadline date. 
In relation to the first application, I cant see any identity documents were sent and 
received. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for NS&I to not complete the 
application and return the funds to Mr H. 
In relation to the second application, NS&I say the evidence of identity document  in 
this case, a birth certificate - was sent and received, but it was received after the 
deadline date. So, this application also couldnt be completed. Mr H says he checked 
with the responsible person and they confirmed the evidence of identity document 
was sent and he also says, during a call with NS&I, an agent confirmed it had been 
received. Ive also seen from NS&Is complaint response, they say Regrettably, as 
the Evidence of Identity was not processed in time we were unable to complete the 
application and We should have processed the Evidence of Identity in time as we 
received it within the allotted timeframe. I can therefore understand why Mr H 
believes the evidence of identity was received before the deadline date of 3 April. 
NS&I say this was an error and the complaint handler misunderstood the position 
and said the refund was made to Mr Hs account due to NS&I not processing the 
evidence of identity in time. NS&I say this is incorrect and the reason the refund was 
made to Mr H was because the evidence of identity wasnt received in time. 
Given the conflicting information, Ive looked to see what the evidence shows. NS&I 
have provided an incoming document spreadsheet which shows they received the 
childs birth certificate on 6 April. The spreadsheet contains information about 
customers and what evidence of identity has been submitted and the date it was 
received. 
However, I cant say Im persuaded by this as its a spreadsheet and its not clear 
how the information is populated  whether thats done manually or electronically. 
And, if its the latter, then where that information is pulled through from. So, I dont 
think this provides persuasive evidence the birth certificate was received on 6 April. 
NS&I have also provided a screenshot of their system which shows the evidence of 
identity document was scanned on 6 April. I accept there is evidence of a timestamp 
here, but this shows the date the document was scanned, not received. 
I am however persuaded by track and trace information provided by NS&I. A form 
sent with the birth certificate contains a tracking number. NS&I have provided a 
screenshot of the track and trace service which shows the same tracking number and 
shows the documents were delivered to the post office on 1 April 2021. Mr H has 
also provided a certificate of posting  showing the same tracking number  which 
shows the evidence of identity was delivered to the post office on 1 April. NS&I say 
this was a Thursday, and 2 and 5 April were bank holidays. NS&I say the next 
working day was 6 April, which is when they received the documents. 
I cant see the track and trace information shows if, and when, the documents were 
signed for. Mr H says the postal service suspended signatures around this time due 
to Covid-19 restrictions. Given that 2 and 5 April were bank holidays, Ive considered 
whether its likely the evidence of identity mightve been received on Saturday 3 April 
 which was the last day of the deadline. The certificate of posting shows the sender paid for the Signed for 1st service. Ive been on the postal services website and this 
shows they operate a Special Delivery Guaranteed by 1pm service and a 
Guaranteed Saturday delivery service. The price for these, based on the weight of 
the document, is £6.85 and £11.22, respectively. The price paid for postage in this 
case was £2.25, so I dont think the service paid for would guarantee delivery by 3 
April. Taking this into account, I believe, on the balance of probabilities, its more 
likely than not, the evidence of identity was received by NS&I on 6 April  which 
means it was received late. And therefore, I dont think it was unreasonable for NS&I 
to not complete the second application. 
Service issues 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr H. The key facts about this part of the 
complaint arent in dispute. NS&I have admitted they got things wrong by not 
notifying Mr H about the applications not being completed and not returning his calls. 
The only issue I have to decide is whether their offer to put things right is fair and 
reasonable.
I think its right that NS&I should compensate Mr H for the inconvenience caused by 
their poor service. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of compensation 
should be, Ive looked at the errors by NS&I and what the impact of those errors have 
been. 
Mr H says he had to make multiple calls and NS&I also confirm this. Theres no 
dispute that calls werent returned, and this includes calls which shouldve been 
returned by a manager. Its clear Mr H was becoming frustrated and the level of his 
frustration increased when, even after escalating his concerns and being assured a 
manager would call him, his calls still werent returned. This then leads to Mr H 
writing directly to a senior member at NS&I. Its clear also, based on the number of 
calls made by Mr H, he was anxious to know what was going on each time his funds 
were returned and what NS&I were doing to resolve his concerns. In addition to this, 
Mr H was also understandably shocked to receive his funds back twice without any 
notification to say the applications hadnt been completed. I can see NS&I have paid 
a total of £125 as compensation, but I dont think this goes far enough to fully reflect 
the impact on Mr H. 
I say this because Mr H was led to believe there was a delay in NS&I processing the 
evidence of identity so I can understand why this caused further upset and frustration 
at a time when Mr H was already worried. NS&I have told our service this information 
was incorrect and shouldnt have been included in the complaint response but that 
doesnt change the fact that receipt of this caused Mr H to believe NS&I were at fault 
and question why they cant rectify the issue if they accept theyd made an error in 
processing the document. It was only when our service became involved that NS&I 
clarified the position and confirmed the evidence of identity was received after the 
deadline date. So, to reflect the worry and upset caused to Mr H as a result of this, I 
think it would be fair for them to pay an additional £75 compensation  this would 
bring the total compensation paid to £200.  
So, subject to any further comments from Mr H or NS&I, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold this complaint.   
Following my provisional decision, NS&I have responded to say they agree with my 
recommendations. Mr H has responded to say he accepts but has raised further points he 
would like considered. Mr H says his complaint wasnt about compensation but to highlight 
changes in practice required at NS&I. Mr H also feels calls between him and NS&I shouldve 
been listened to and NS&I did have staff working over the bank holiday weekend. Given that both parties have responded, I see no reason to delay making a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above.
I wish to reassure Mr H that I have carefully considered the points he has raised but Ive 
addressed only those which I believe are relevant to my decision. I acknowledge Mr Hs 
point that this complaint hasnt been driven by compensation but by changes he feels should 
be made in NS&Is processes. I understand Mr H has been left frustrated with NS&Is 
processes, but our service doesnt have power to direct a business to change their 
processes. Our services role is to consider whether a business has acted fairly and 
reasonably but we cant require a business to change their processes. 
I acknowledge Mr Hs point about the phone calls between him and NS&I, but I dont feel it 
was necessary to listen to these calls. There is no discourtesy intended here but NS&I 
accept theyd made errors in not returning calls  so this wasnt in dispute. I note Mr Hs 
point about being told the evidence of identity had been received, but NS&I accept this was 
said in error. And, the evidence Ive seen shows its more likely than not the birth certificate 
was received after the deadline. While staff at NS&I might well have been working over the 
bank holiday weekend, I dont believe this demonstrates the birth certificate was received by 
the deadline of 3 April. Ive placed more weight on the track and trace information Ive seen 
together with evidence of the postage service the sender paid for. And, based on this, I 
believe, on the balance of probabilities, the birth certificate was received on 6 April.      
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that NS&I have made errors in not notifying Mr H about the applications 
not being completed, not returning his calls and providing him with incorrect information 
about receipt of the evidence of identity. This has led to Mr H being upset, worried and 
frustrated. So, in addition to the £125 already paid, NS&I should pay Mr H a further £75 to 
bring the total compensation paid to £200.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. National Savings and Investments must pay 
Mr H a further £75 to bring the total compensation paid to £200.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman