DRN-3654600
The complaint
Miss B complains about the service she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC when she 
visited a branch to make a cash withdrawal.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered very carefully what Miss B has told us about what happened during her 
branch visits. I recognise it would have been upsetting to be questioned in what Miss B felt 
was an embarrassing and humiliating way by Barclays staff. I can also understand her 
distress of having the police called to the branch - particularly as she was only trying to 
access the funds in her account. This has been at the forefront of my mind when reaching 
this decision and I hope what Ive said makes clear how Ive reached this decision. 
I understand the crux of Miss Bs complaint is about the service she received in branch  
both when she requested a large cash withdrawal and when she wanted to pay the money 
back into her account, and the time she was delayed in branch. But Ive also noted that    
Miss B has concerns about Barclays Covid-19 protocols while she was in the branch. So, I 
will address the points in turn.  
Cash withdrawal
When Miss B asked for the cash withdrawal, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Barclays to 
ask her the questions it did about what she planned to do with - what was, a significant 
amount of money. Barclays has an obligation to Miss B to ensure she wasnt being 
subjected to fraud or forced into making a large cash withdrawal. 
Miss B has said she was told that not all customers face the same questioning. Barclays has 
also shown that  like other banks, it has an escalation procedure for dealing with large, 
unusual transactions. Ive looked at these procedures which includes the circumstances 
Barclays needs to be aware of, the questions it needs to asks, and when the police should 
become involved to ensure the customer isnt under any duress to make the withdrawal. 
And from what Ive seen, Miss Bs transaction does seem to have been an unusual 
transaction for her to make. So, Im persuaded that Barclays acted reasonably when 
Barclays took the approach it did in her circumstances. 
I do appreciate there is a delicate balance to be struck in such circumstances. Miss B is free 
to use her own money as she wishes. But regulated businesses like Barclays have a duty to 
protect their customers from potential fraud. So, while the transaction here turned out to be 
genuine, and that Barclays questioning made Miss B feel embarrassed, Im persuaded it was 
reasonable for Barclays to take these steps. And Im satisfied it did so for Miss Bs 
protection. And, ultimately, Miss B was allowed to make the cash withdrawal. So, she hasnt 
suffered any financial consequences of not being able to withdraw the money on the day she 
needed it.
Depositing money 
I understand that Miss B returned to the branch a couple of days later as she wanted to pay 
the money she had withdrawn back into her account. Miss B says she was again questioned 
 this time about her reasons for depositing the money back into her account. And that she 
felt staff in the branch were mocking her. Barclays has said this was a general question 
which staff are required to ask all customers paying cash into their accounts. 
I can understand why Miss B would have felt the question was unnecessary and that it would 
have been frustrating given the events of her previous visit. But, overall, Im persuaded this 
was a general question and that the cashier didnt intend to cause Miss B any further 
distress. And Miss B wasnt prevented from depositing her money. Overall, I havent seen 
enough to make me think Barclays were wrong to ask her the question it did or that the staff 
were mocking her in the way Miss B has suggested.  
Time in branch 
Miss B is also unhappy at what she feels is an unnecessarily long and drawn-out process in 
the branch. As a result, she says shes had to work longer hours to make up for her lost work 
hours. And I accept Miss B was in the branch longer than she anticipated. But from what she 
says, Im persuaded part of this was due to what appears to have been long waiting times to 
be served by staff due to several people waiting in the queue before her. 
I do appreciate that when she was served, the process of the cash withdrawal took longer 
than Miss B would have anticipated beforehand. But this was a result of the checks Ive 
already established it was reasonable for Barclays to do. So, I dont hold Barclays 
responsible if Miss B waited in branch longer than expected while Barclays carried out its 
security checks.
Covid-19 protocols 
Miss B has questioned the Covid-19 protocols Barclays had in place at the time of her visits.  
She says staff werent wearing masks correctly and that there were several people in a room 
at the same time. But Miss B has said she mentioned this in case she later became ill 
because of Covid. And Ive not seen anything that would make me think Miss B did contract 
Covid following the branch visit and Barclays has confirmed that none of its staff tested 
positive either.    
  
I recognise that the events Miss B experienced would have been frustrating and distressing 
for her and she is seeking compensation for that. So, I know she will be disappointed with 
my decision. But given my conclusion that overall Barclays acted fairly and reasonably, Im 
not going to tell Barclays to make a compensation payment to Miss B.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Sandra GreeneOmbudsman