DRN-3804538
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about a secured loan he has with Swift 1st Limited. He is unhappy about 
the outstanding balance, and that it wont be repaid by the end of the term.
What happened
In 2008 Mr D borrowed £32,450 from Swift to pay several debts. The loan is secured and 
was set up on a repayment basis with a term of 15 years. The contractual monthly payment 
(CMP) was set at £476.37.
Mr D started to have difficulties paying the loan in 2009 and has been in arrears to some 
degree ever since. 
During the period I am considering Mr D missed further monthly payments at the end of 
2015, at which time the arrears were over £8,000, and again in 2020. In addition, there was 
a period when Mr D paid less than the CMP. Throughout there appears to have been a 
payment arrangement which involved Mr D paying £500 each month, the additional amount 
being paid off the arrears. However, while the arrears reduced in the main from the end of 
2015, interest was charged on them, which was added to the overall amount owed. 
Swift has provided copies of annual statements it provided Mr C with from 2014. These 
statements confirmed that due to the arrears the loan would not be repaid by the end of the 
term if he continued paying what he was. It set out each year how much he needed to pay 
on a monthly basis to clear the loan by the end of the term. It started as just over £600 in 
2014 and had increased to over £1,000 by 2020. 
Due to Mr Ds financial difficulties Swift reduced the interest rate payable on the loan twice. 
The first time in February 2017 from 15.99% (as set out in the loan agreement) to 12%. In 
2020 it further reduced the interest rate to 9.6%. Both reductions were designed to assist 
Mr D to reduce the loan balance more quickly, as it meant that more of the CMP paid off 
capital, which also reduced the amount of interest that was being charged. 
In 2018 an income and expenditure exercise was undertaken and it was determined that Mr 
D could afford to pay £700 each month toward the loan and arrears. However, he chose to 
continue paying £500 each month to ensure that he would be able to make the payments, 
given he was self-employed, and his income was not always predictable.
In June 2020 Mr D was granted 3 months of payment holidays due to the effect the Covid-19 
pandemic had on his employment. In light of this, the repayment term of the loan was 
extended by six months. 
In August 2021 a relative representing Mr D raised a complaint on his behalf about the 
balance of the loan and the amount that was being paid to the capital. They were under the 
impression that only the amount above the CMP was being used to reduce the capital 
balance.
Swift responded to the complaint on 28 October 2021. It explained how the monthly 
payments had been calculated and confirmed that all payments needed to have been made 
on time in order for the loan to be repaid at the end of the term. As Mr D had missed 
numerous payments from 2010, there was an arrears balance that needed to be paid, along 
with additional interest and fees. So the balance was higher than the original agreement had 
expected it to be. Swift confirmed that it had put in place a concessionary interest rate from 
February 2020 of 9.6%, but even with the lower interest rate, the loan wouldnt be repaid 
over the remainder of the term if Mr D continued to pay £500. 
In response to having been told that Mr D had semi-retired and couldnt afford to continue to 
pay £500 each month, Swift asked him to complete an income and expenditure form so that 
it could look further into what it could do to assist him. Swift also suggested that Mr D seek 
independent debt/financial advice.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that we would only be able 
to consider the complaint over the six years before the complaint was made to Swift. Mr D 
acknowledged he was aware of the situation with the loan from the annual statements and 
accepted that we could only look at the events from September 2015.
The investigator then went on to consider the merits of the complaint for the time period that 
it fell within our jurisdiction. She was satisfied that the loan balance had been reducing 
throughout due to the CMP being paid, and the amount above the CMP Mr D was paying, 
was reducing the arrears balance. She was also satisfied that Swift had taken action to 
assist Mr D, had kept him informed and signposted him to independent sources that might 
be able to assist him with the situation. As such, she considered Swift had treated Mr D 
fairly. In addition, the investigator encouraged Mr D to discuss his current situation with Swift 
to see if it could do anything further to assist him.
Mr D didnt express any particular disagreement with the investigators conclusions, but 
asked that the complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
We consider our jurisdiction at each stage of a complaint. Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that we are only able to consider its merits for the six years before the complaint 
was made in 2021.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being 
resolved.
For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such as reducing 
interest rates or deferring interest for a period of time. Balanced against that is the lenders 
obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. In addition, the 
arrangement or concession actually has to help a consumer, and not simply delay the 
inevitable consequence of the loan being unaffordable.
In this case Mr Ds situation has been a long-term one, in that the arrears built over a period 
of time and while for long stretches he managed to pay the CMP and an amount to the 
arrears, there were further missed payments and payments below the CMP. During the 
period I can consider, Swift kept in contact with Mr D, set affordable payment arrangements and reduced the interest rate payable on the loan twice. It also offered to assist with the sale 
of the property when Mr D was considering that option. 
In addition, Swift kept Mr D informed of the situation with his account and set out what was 
needed for the loan to be repaid by the end of the term. Swift recommended on numerous 
occasions that he should seek independent advice/assistance with his finances, to see if 
there were any options available to him. 
In the circumstances, I can only find that Swift treated Mr D fairly and attempted to assist him 
where it could. As such, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Since the last payment arrangement was set it appears that Mr Ds circumstances have 
changed considerably. In light of this, Swift has offered to review the situation and see if 
there is anything further it can do to assist Mr D, but it will need information from him in order 
to be able to do that. I would encourage Mr D to open a dialogue with Swift as soon as he is 
able in order to see if there are any further ways it is able to assist him.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 
9 January 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman