DRN-3848498
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about their mortgage with Kensington Mortgage Company Limited. 
Theyre concerned that the balance wasnt set correctly when they moved from one property 
to another, and they complain that Kensingtons interest rate is too high and that it didnt 
treat Mrs F in particular fairly when she experienced financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took their mortgage out with another lender, and it was later transferred to 
Kensington, which is therefore responsible for this complaint.
They took an initial three-year fixed rate of 6.54% in 2006, reverting to a rate which tracks 
the Barclays Bank Base Rate with a margin of 2.49% from 2009. Since, in practice, the 
Barclays Bank Base Rate has been set at the same level as the Bank of England base rate, 
Mr and Mrs F have been on a base rate tracker since the expiry of their fixed rate. 
More recently, Mr and Mrs F separated and Mr F moved out of the property. Since then it 
has primarily been Mrs F that paid the mortgage. 
The mortgage began to fall into arrears in late 2016. Although payments were made over the 
next few years, some monthly payments were missed and in other months the full payment 
wasnt made. So the arrears increased and by 2020 had reached over £7,000.
During this time, Mrs F was in regular contact with Kensington. She provided income and 
expenditure information and Kensington agreed a series of payment arrangements. But Mrs 
F wasnt able to bring the arrears down and get the mortgage back on track. In early 2019, 
Mrs F told Kensington that she was receiving medical treatment and her condition was 
affecting her income. Kensington agreed a further payment arrangement but when that 
wasnt kept to, it added an arrears fee to the account in April 2019. 
There were further discussions between Mrs F and Kensington throughout 2019. Kensington 
asked Mrs F for medical evidence but she didnt provide any. She said she was still receiving 
treatment but was continuing to work. She said she had other financial difficulties and was 
struggling to meet her commitments.
In late 2019, Kensington decided to take repossession proceedings. It paid a trace agent to 
locate Mr F so that it could serve the proceedings on both parties, and added the costs to 
the mortgage balance. 
Finally, the mortgage was paid off when a family member bought the property. 
Mrs F complained to Kensington, and Mr F joined the complaint when it was brought to us. 
She said that their concerns were:
The mortgage was lent beyond their retirement ages of 65 and 60 respectively;
They were not advised about the appropriateness of using the mortgage to 
consolidate other debts when they took it out;
Unreasonable fees were added to the mortgage balance when they took it out;
The interest rate is unfair;
In 2019, Kensington was unsympathetic and didnt treat her fairly when Mrs F had 
serious health concerns;
Kensington has not acted fairly or sympathetically when theyve struggled with the 
mortgage repayments. They understood that the mortgage includes life insurance 
and payment protection insurance, but no payments have been made;
Kensington is hard to contact, with no response to contact via its website and 
excessive waiting times before telephone calls are answered  leading to higher call 
costs.
Our investigator said we couldnt consider anything from the time the mortgage was sold. 
She thought that overall Kensington had treated Mr and Mrs F fairly, but that the April 2019 
arrears fee and the tracing agent fee should be refunded. As neither party agreed, the 
complaint comes to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, there are time limits which apply to complaints. We can only 
consider a complaint made within six years of the event complained of, or  if later  within 
three years of when the complainant knew or ought reasonably to have known of cause for 
complaint. Thats unless theres evidence of an earlier complaint having been made in time, 
unless the firm complained about consents to us looking at an older complaint, or unless 
there are exceptional circumstances which explain the delay.
Our investigator explained that, applying those rules, in this case we would only be able to 
consider things that happened in the six years before Mr and Mrs F complained. I agree 
about that. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs F would have known about the issues theyve raised 
around the sale of the mortgage, fees added at the time, and the mortgage balance at or 
soon after the time of the sale. As thats more than six years ago, Kensington hasnt 
consented and there are no exceptional circumstances, we cant now consider those 
matters.
Ive not seen any evidence that insurance was included as part of this mortgage. If 
Mr and Mrs F took out separate insurance around the same time as they took the mortgage, 
thats something to raise either with the broker who sold it or with the insurance providers. 
Ill therefore focus in this decision on those matters which are in time  the interest rate 
charged in the six years before the complaint was made, and whether Kensington treated 
Mrs F in particular fairly when she experienced financial difficulties. The interest rate
Ive explained above that since the fixed rate ended in 2009, the mortgage has been on a 
variable rate which has effectively tracked base rate with a margin of 2.49%.
Mr and Mrs F have complained that the interest rate theyve been asked to pay is too high, 
and that Kensington hasnt given them access to a new fixed rate.
Until 2017, Kensington did not make new fixed interest rates available to any existing 
customers. The terms and conditions of their mortgage make clear that when the old rate 
expired they would move onto the reversion tracker rate, and thats what in fact happened. 
Nothing in the mortgage terms and conditions says that Kensington has to offer them a new 
fixed rate. So the mortgage has operated as it should have done, in line with the terms and 
conditions.
Im aware that its a common feature of the mortgage market that once a fixed rate expires, a 
borrower will often shop around for another, either with their existing lender or with a new 
lender. But theres no rule or obligation that says a lender has to offer new rates to its 
existing customers. Prior to 2017, Kensington didnt offer rates to any customers, and 
therefore did not treat Mr and Mrs F any less favourably or less fairly than any of its other 
customers. 
I dont know whether Mr and Mrs F tried to move to another lender or not. But if they didnt, 
or if they did and werent able to, I dont think I can fairly hold Kensington responsible for 
that.
That means that I dont think I can fairly uphold a complaint that Kensington treated Mr and 
Mrs F unfairly by not giving them access to a new fixed rate prior to 2017 when it didnt have 
any rates available.
From 2017 onwards, Kensington did start to offer fixed rates to some existing customers, 
subject to eligibility criteria. One of the criteria was that the mortgage was not in arrears  but 
by 2017, Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage was in arrears. This means that by the time Kensington 
started to make new rates available to existing customers, Mr and Mrs F were not eligible for 
one.
It's permissible for a lender to have eligibility criteria under which different rates are available 
to different customers  and under which some customers are not eligible for rates at all. 
But nevertheless Ive thought about whether it was fair, in Mr and Mrs Fs particular 
circumstances, that Kensington didnt allow them access to a new interest rate.
Ive said that Mr and Mrs F werent eligible for a rate because of the arrears on their 
mortgage. A new fixed rate comes with an early repayment charge (ERC). Where a borrower 
is in arrears, its more likely they will repay their mortgage early  perhaps because they 
decide its no longer affordable and sell the property, or even because the lender 
repossesses. Ending the mortgage early in this way results in the ERC being paid  and an 
ERC can be substantial, often between 2% and 5% of the mortgage balance. 
That means that if the mortgage has to be repaid early, its more expensive to do so and 
leaves the borrower with less equity. Indeed, in this particular case the mortgage was ended 
early when a family member bought the property  so not having a fixed rate meant that Mr 
and Mrs F avoided having to pay an ERC when that happened.
The other factor to weigh in the balance is that a fixed rate can sometimes lower the interest rate and therefore the monthly payments. And sometimes thats enough to make the 
mortgage affordable and take the borrower out of financial difficulty  which means that it 
might be fair to offer a rate as a form of forbearance, notwithstanding the ERC risk and 
despite the eligibility criteria.
However, Im not persuaded that was the case here. I can see from the transaction history 
that between 2017 and 2021, when the mortgage was repaid, that in some months the full 
mortgage payments were made  and even overpayments to reduce the arrears. But in 
other months reduced payments or no payments at all were made. And overall, the arrears 
rose to over £7,000 over this period.
During this time, Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage was on a rate which tracked base rate with a 
margin of 2.49%. This meant their interest rate was:
Date* Base rate Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage 
rate
September 
20160.25% 2.74%
December 2017 0.5% 2.99%
September 
20180.75% 3.24%
April 2020 0.1% 2.59%
* This date is the date of changes to base rate  the mortgage rate changed shortly afterwards 
Therefore, throughout this period, Mr and Mrs Fs interest rate was never more than 3.24%, 
and generally less than 3%.
While this is higher than the best fixed rates offered to their customers by high street banks, 
its not an excessive rate thats unreasonable in and of itself, and is lower than many 
reversion rates. And its important to note that the rates Mr and Mrs F were charged were 
generally lower than the fixed rates Kensington had available to offer to eligible existing 
customers.
And so even if Kensington had offered Mr and Mrs F a new fixed rate to replace their 
variable rate, I dont think it would have helped their situation. Rather, its likely that doing so 
would have increased  not reduced  their monthly payments (as the fixed rates were 
generally higher than their variable rate) and also left them facing a substantial ERC when 
the property was sold. 
In those circumstances, I dont think it was unfair that Kensington refused Mr and Mrs F a 
new fixed rate, keeping them on the variable rate set out in the terms of their mortgage 
agreement. They were not eligible for a fixed rate, and offering them one would likely have 
made their situation worse not better. 
Fair treatment in financial difficulties
The arrears began to build up from 2016 onwards. Throughout this time, Mrs F was in 
regular contact with Kensington. She explained various difficulties she was experiencing with 
the separation from Mr F, her employment and her health, all of which impacted her ability to 
make the mortgage payments at various times. I appreciate it would have been difficult and upsetting to have to discuss these matters with Kensington, but it was necessary to do so for 
it to understand her situation. At times  particularly around the pandemic  it would have 
taken longer to contact Kensington. But this is something that all firms struggled with, as 
increased demand from customers coincided with impacts on staff and resources. While that 
would no doubt have been frustrating for Mrs F I have to take account of the difficult wider 
circumstances.
Ive looked at the period of the arrears from 2016 onwards carefully, and I think Kensington 
acted fairly and reasonably. It took account of Mrs Fs circumstances, as Id expect, and 
looked at her income and expenditure to see what she could afford. It agreed a series of 
payment arrangements, some of which Mrs F was able to keep to and some of which she 
wasnt. In 2018, concerned at the increasing arrears, Kensington instructed solicitors to 
begin repossession proceedings  although no proceedings took place when a further 
payment arrangement was agreed.  
Mrs F has particularly complained about what happened in 2019, at the time of her illness. I 
can understand this was a particularly difficult and upsetting time for her. And I appreciate 
that the worry of her mortgage contributed to that. Again, though, I dont think Kensington 
acted unreasonably. It wanted to understand more about her condition and how it might 
affect her, which I think was fair. And it looked at her income and expenditure and financial 
situation. Mrs F said that she was still working, other than time off for medical procedures, 
and also that she was planning to sell the property to a family member.
At the same time, Kensington was concerned that the arrears were continuing to grow, that 
previous arrangements hadnt been kept to, and there was no definite timescale for a 
property sale. By this point, the arrears had been growing for several years. I dont think it 
was unreasonable that Kensington began to explore whether it needed to take matters 
further and instructed solicitors. It was clear at this time that it wasnt seeking to repossess 
the property immediately, but that it wanted the court to grant a suspended possession order 
 which is a form of payment arrangement which gives the lender the right to go back to 
court and seek repossession if it isnt kept to. 
So while this was a very difficult time for Mrs F, its also the case that the mortgage arrears 
continued to increase  and, as Mrs F was continuing to work and still having difficulty with 
the mortgage, there didnt seem to be any prospect of her financial situation improving in the 
future. As things had been getting worse for some years, I dont think it was unreasonable 
that Kensington wanted to move things on to the next stage  but, by applying for a 
suspended rather than outright possession order  still give Mrs F a further chance to get 
things back on track or complete the sale of the property. In the event, though, it didnt take 
proceedings at all as a further arrangement was agreed in January 2020.
Finally, Ive looked at the fees Kensington applied to the loan over this time. It added the 
following fees to the loan balance, up to the time of Mrs Fs complaint:
February 2017 - £50 arrears fee
March 2017 - £50 arrears fee
May 2018 - £30 arrears fee
June 2018 - £30 arrears fee
July 2018 - £30 arrears fee
August 2018 - £645 legal feesApril 2019 - £30 arrears fee
September 2019 - £30 tracing fee
December 2019 - £65 legal fees
February 2020 - £87.60 legal fees
Ive explained that I think it was reasonable that Kensington considered legal action when it 
did. And therefore its fair that it added the costs incurred by its solicitors to the mortgage 
balance.
Arrears fees should only be charged where a payment has been missed and theres not an 
ongoing arrangement to accept reduced or nil payments. And even then, a fee should only 
be charged where it reflects extra administrative work carried out by Kensington because of 
the missed payment  for example, working with Mrs F to understand her situation and what 
she can afford to pay.
With that in mind, Im satisfied that all the arrears fees were reasonable and fairly charged  
with the exception of the fee charged at the start of April 2019 for the payment missed in 
March 2019. While the payment was missed, theres no evidence of contact between Mrs F 
and Kensington in that month, or of any other additional work Kensington carried out which 
would justify charging that fee.
Im also not persuaded the tracing fee in September 2019 was fair and reasonable. This was 
a fee paid to a tracing agent for finding Mr Fs address. At this time, Kensington was 
contemplating taking possession proceedings  which would need to be served on Mr F as 
well as Mrs F, as both were parties to the mortgage. To do that, Kensington would need 
Mr Fs address. However, Kensington has not explained, and Ive seen no evidence of a 
good reason, why it was necessary to pay a tracing agent to confirm Mr Fs address. This 
wasnt necessary when proceedings were contemplated in 2018, and Ive not seen evidence 
that anything had changed. 
Our investigator said in her view that shed not seen any evidence of why that fee was 
justified. Kensington sent her a copy of the invoice, but didnt explain why it considered it to 
be necessary. 
Having seen the invoice, Im satisfied Kensington incurred this fee. But for it to be fair to 
charge it to Mr and Mrs F, thats not enough  it also has to be reasonable to incur it. And Im 
not persuaded of that.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think Kensington should refund the two fees Ive identified above, plus 
interest. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited to:
Refund the £30 arrears fee added to the mortgage balance in April 2019; and
Refund the £30 tracing fee added to the mortgage balance in September 2019.In each case, Kensington should also refund any mortgage interest charged on those fees 
from the date they were added to the balance to the date the mortgage was redeemed. It 
should then add simple annual interest of 8% to the total of the fees plus mortgage interest, 
running from the date the mortgage was redeemed to date of refund. Kensington may 
deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award, as required by HMRC, but 
should tell Mr and Mrs F how much is has deducted so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC 
if they are entitled to do so.
As Mr and Mrs F are not together, they will need to decide between them how the refund is 
to be apportioned, and should confirm that when they accept my decision  if they do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman