DRN-2903609
The complaint
Mr J complains First Complete Ltd hasnt done enough to compensate him for wrongly 
charging him a £999 fee.  
What happened
Mr J met with an adviser from First Complete and a mortgage offer was processed in 
January 2020. Around the same time, Mr J paid the £999 mortgage arrangement fee to the 
adviser. He was then asked to pay a further £395 as the advisers fee  but complained on 
the basis hed already paid them £999. Mr J decided not to proceed with the mortgage offer, 
saying hed lost faith in First Complete. Mr J was also concerned that hed been threatened 
with court action if he didnt pay the £395 fee. 
First Complete upheld Mr Js complaint. It apologised and agreed to refund the £999 and 
waive the £395 fee. 
Mr J didnt agree and referred his complaint to our service. He said hed chosen not to 
proceed with the mortgage offer because the adviser wrongly took the £999 from him. And 
hes been left financially out of pocket. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint. She thought First Completes offer to return the 
£999 to Mr J and waive the £395 was fair and took account of any interest Mr J had lost on 
the £999 and the trouble and upset hed been put to. 
Mr J disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said First 
Completes actions meant he had to seek a mortgage elsewhere, incurring more costs. He 
didnt think waiving the £395 was enough. And wanted compensation and interest on top of 
the £999 First Complete still holds. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold the complaint in part. I know Mr J feels strongly about 
this complaint and so this may come as a disappointment to him. But as Ill go on to explain, 
I think First Complete has done enough to put things right.  
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
First Complete accepts the adviser shouldnt have charged Mr J the £999 in January 2020. 
Given a mortgage offer was actioned, Mr J was liable for the £395 fee  but First Complete 
has agreed to waive that in recognition of its mistake in connection with the £999 payment. 
So, the issue for me to consider is the impact this mistake had on Mr J. I should point out 
that its not my role to punish First Complete for its mistake. Rather I must consider whether 
its done enough to put things right. 
Looking first at the financial impact on Mr J, First Complete has held the £999 since January 
2020  offering to return it to Mr J in January 2021 when it looked into his complaint. As our 
investigator explained, we would expect a business to pay 8% simple interest on any money 
owed to a customer. In Mr Js case, this amounts to approximately £80.  So, Mr J is entitled 
to receive that money back. 
Mr J also says he had to pay for another mortgage adviser. I can understand why Mr J felt 
he didnt want to continue his dealings with First Complete and chose to start the mortgage 
application process again. But that was ultimately his choice. Despite the mistake regarding 
the £999 fee, Mr J had a valid mortgage offer in place through First Complete. And so, taking 
everything into account, I cant agree First Complete is directly responsible for the costs Mr J 
incurred in organising another mortgage offer. 
Ive also considered that Mr J was liable for the £395 adviser fee as this was payable on 
completion of the mortgage offer. First Complete has waived this fee to take account of the 
impact its mistake, in wrongly charging Mr J the £999, had on him. 
I can understand how Mr J was frustrated and upset by First Completes mistake, and how 
this was compounded with the threat of court action. But I believe the £395 waived by First 
Complete covers the lost interest and the trouble and upset caused to Mr J. 
So, Im satisfied Mr J has been put back in the position he wouldve been in if the mistake 
hadnt happened. And has been compensated for the trouble and upset caused by not 
having to pay the £395. 
Taking everything into account, I think First Complete has done enough to put things right. 
Putting things right
First Complete has already agreed to return Mr Js £999 and waive the £395 fee to settle this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld. First Complete Ltd should pay Mr J £999. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman