DRN-3687524
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) mis-sold them a 
packaged bank account (PBA). They also complain about the level of information given in 
later years, which they say meant they unnecessarily paid for something that was no longer 
suitable. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr B had had a fee free bank account with HSBC for some time. In 2010 they 
applied online to include First Directory. This was an add on to the account. In return for a 
monthly fee of £12, this gave various benefits such as travel insurance, car breakdown 
cover, mobile phone cover, and some banking benefits such as free overseas cash machine 
withdrawals and mortgage cashback. 
Mrs and Mr B say that, by 2015/16 their employment arrangements had changed and they 
no longer needed the travel or phone insurance. They say they would have cancelled the 
First Directory add on, if theyd known it was an option. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mrs and Mr B didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mis-sale 
When Mrs and Mr B upgraded their account in 2010, to include First Directory, they did 
this online  so they took an active step to do this, and knew that they had a choice. And, 
from what Ive seen of the evidence, HSBC gave reasonable information during the online 
process, so that Mrs and Mr B could make an informed choice. I dont see, in their 
circumstances, that fuller information would have affected whether they decided to take 
the package. 
There were also clearly elements of the package that were potentially useful to them at 
the time, even if theyve said that later some stopped being useful. At the point of sale, it 
would have been up to Mrs and Mr B to decide if the benefits, and the convenience of 
them in a single package, were worth the cost. 
Mrs and Mr B say that their understanding is that such products were sold only for a 
years commitment and that, after that, the customer needed to proactively agree to the 
ongoing charge. 
Ive seen screenshot evidence of the online process at the time. There is a stage where 
the customer is required to confirm that the monthly fee of £12 may be debited from the 
relevant HSBC account. Under this it says, as a standalone paragraph:
The first directory fee is deducted from the nominated 1st Account on your 
statement date. There is an initial minimum12 month subscription which is 
renewable monthly thereafter.
From this it was clear that Mr and Mrs B were agreeing to ongoing payment, even after 
the initial minimum period. The fact that there was a minimum period also indicated that, 
after this, the agreement could be cancelled.  
So I dont agree that the PBA was mis-sold in 2010.
Ongoing information and suitability
HSBC didnt have a duty to actively check that the account add-on still suited Mrs and Mr Bs 
requirements. As far as it knew, Mrs and Mr B had chosen to buy the product and so would 
be able to decide when it no longer suited them.
Mrs and Mr B have indicated that it was from 2015/16 that they would have cancelled the 
PBA, if they had been aware they had that option. HSBC records show that from 2015 it sent 
annual eligibility statements. These reminded the customer of the benefits of the PBA, 
briefly summarising what the insurance covered and the limitations. Ive seen the 2016 letter, 
which said:
If you think you're no longer eligible for any of the insurance policies or your 
circumstances have changed, we recommend you consider whether First 
Directory is still right for you. If you decide it isn't, please give us a call on the 
number below and we'll arrange to cancel it for you.
I can see that the letter was sent to the same address as we hold for Mrs and Mr B. Theyve 
said they didnt get these. Later annual letters had almost the same wording. And, in my 
view, these letters showed that HSBC continued to attempt to give Mrs and Mr B information 
about the package and make clear it could be cancelled. I think HSBC took reasonable steps 
to try to keep Mrs and Mr B informed of their options. 
Mrs and Mr B have said that some of the documents, listing their banking fees, didnt make 
clear that the First Directory fee was not mandatory. Even those documents werent properly 
clear, I consider information given in other ways did give this information. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs and Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman