DRN-1720016
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car supplied with finance from Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc 
(TFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
In August 2019 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with TFS.
In November 2019 Mr M contacted this service. He said hed experienced numerous issues 
with the car including a brake warning light illuminating, rear heated seats not working, air 
conditioning making a noise and steering veering to the left.
Mr M told this service hed complained to TFS in September 2019 but hadnt received a 
response.
 TFS said it had no record of a complaint. It agreed to look at the complaint and contacted 
the supplying dealer, who confirmed that it had seen the car twice in September 2019 for 
issues including those identified by Mr M to this service. The dealer said it had ordered parts 
which had arrived in October 2019, but Mr M hadnt taken the car back for repairs and had 
asked to reject it.
TFS arranged for the repairs to be carried out in December 2019. T said it didnt accept Mr 
Ms request to reject the car because all the reported issues had been repaired.
Mr M made a further complaint to this service. He said the issue with the brake warning light 
had returned and there was now an issue with the heating switch.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought the issues with the brake control were 
ongoing despite two attempts at repair and said Mr M should be allowed to reject the car.
TFS didnt agree. It said it wasnt aware that the brake warning light issue had returned and 
said it had issued its final response based on the repairs carried out in December 2019. It 
said it had advised Mr M to have the brake control light checked by the dealer to see 
whether the issue was the same as previously. It said it hadnt hear further from Mr M nor 
had it been provide with evidence that the issue with the brake light was the same issue as 
previously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because TFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as, amongst other thigs, the age and mileage of the car and the price 
paid. I would expect a second hand car  such as that supplied to Mr M  to have a  degree 
of wear and tear. So in order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the 
car had an inherent fault as opposed to issues caused by general wear and tear.
Under the CRA 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, its presumed to have been 
present or developing at the point of supply unless the business can show otherwise. The 
business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful the 
consumer can reject the car. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its 
up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ive focussed on the issues relating to the downhill brake light because this is the issue 
which Mr M says has reoccurred. I can see that Mr M first reported the problem to the 
dealership in September 2019. The job sheet shows that the downhill brake control sensor 
connections were loose. 
The car was returned to the dealership in December 2019 for further repairs. The job sheet 
shows that a downhill brake warning light fault was cleared.
Mr M says that the warning light illuminated again soon after these repairs. Hes obtained a 
diagnostic report from an independent garage which confirms issues with the downhill brake 
control, and which says parts are required to repair it.
TFS doesnt agree that this is an ongoing fault. It says that on the first repair, a loose 
connection was fixed, and that on a subsequent repair, a clutch pedal sensor was replaced. 
TFS says that the clutch pedal sensor is a wear and tear item and that there is no evidence 
that this was faulty at the point of supply.
Ive considered all the available evidence. On balance, Im persuaded that there is an 
ongoing issue with the downhill brake control. The issue arose within the first 6 months so its 
presumed to have been present at the point of supply unless TFS can show otherwise. 
Repairs were first attempted in September 2019 which didnt resolve the issue. Im 
persuaded by Mr Ms testimony and the diagnostic report hes produced from an 
independent garage which sates that there is a fault with the downhill brake control.
Although TFS has said that the DBC light is meant to illuminate, it hasnt provided any expert 
or technical evidence to support this. The diagnostic provided by Mr M was carried out by a 
main dealer, so if the DBC light was meant to be illuminated then I would expect the main 
dealer to have known this.
Putting things right
I think TFS has had a reasonable opportunity to repair the fault so under the relevant 
legislation it should allow Mr M to reject the car. It should also reimburse Mr M for the costs 
of the diagnostic he obtained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc must:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr M
Return the deposit paid by Mr M together with 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Remove the agreement from Mr Ms credit filePay £100 for trouble and upset
Reimburse Mr Ms costs of the diagnostic report, upon receipt of evidence of costs 
incurred
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman