DRN-4070102
The complaint
Mr S complains The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland (BOI) failed to make 
reasonable adjustments when he wanted to make changes to his mortgage. Hes also 
unhappy they sent letters to his late mothers address and with the level of customer service 
they provided.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 28 February 2023 and gave both parties until 
14 March 2023 to send any additional points and/or evidence for me to consider.
BOI didnt respond, and Mr S disagreed with my provisional decision. He explained the 
award I suggested didnt go far enough to reflect the concern caused by BOI sending letters 
to the wrong address. He also explained that while he isnt aware of what the Relay UK 
service is, his disability affects his short-term memory, so its unlikely to have been suitable 
for his needs.  
Ive taken on board Mr S points, however my decision remains the same for the reasons 
explained below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im upholding Mr S complaint, albeit not quite as he hoped.
Letters sent to the wrong address
Mr S complains BOI sent letters to his late mothers address. Hes unhappy they did this as 
he feels they ought to have been aware he hadnt lived there for some time - and they sent 
letters to this address after he told them his mother had passed away.
Mr S has raised several concerns about the way BOI handled this aspect of his complaint 
and has referenced the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). As he is aware, the ICO 
can deal with complaints of this nature. So, if Mr S remains concerned, he may want to 
contact them directly.
In late April 2021, Mr S wrote to BOI and explained his mother had passed away. He asked 
for all future correspondence to be sent to his address moving forward. Mr S letter contained 
his address, so Im satisfied BOI had the information they needed to update their systems 
with the correct correspondence address for him.
Disappointingly, Ive seen that BOI sent three letters to Mr S late mothers address  in 
June 2021, February 2022 and March 2022. As Mr S wasnt based at that address, and 
given his request to update his address, I can understand why Mr S was unhappy when he 
found out about this mistake. This would have caused understandable concerns about the 
safety of his personal data.
I agree that BOI shouldnt have sent letters to his late mothers address after his April 2021 
letter. Mr S has mentioned awards of around £5,000 to put things right for this aspect of his 
complaint, but I cant agree that would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances. 
As mentioned above, BOI did make a mistake that would have caused him inconvenience 
and worry. But Ive seen no evidence that demonstrates the impact went beyond that, to 
such an extent, that warrants an award of the amount Mr S has suggested. I do think an 
award is appropriate for this, but Ill explain the award I consider to be reasonable for all 
aspects of Mr S complaint at the end of my decision.
Reasonable adjustments
Im obligated to consider relevant law and regulations. For this aspect of Mr S complaint, 
Ive taken into account the Equality Act 2010. However, as an informal alternative to the 
Courts, our role is to reach a finding we consider to be fair and reasonable. Therefore, if 
Mr S wants a decision on whether BOI breached the Equality Act 2010, then hed need to go 
to Court.
Mr S April 2021 letter told BOI that he wanted to switch to paying his mortgage on a 
repayment basis and that he was hoping to increase the mortgage term. He also explained 
that he was unable to discuss his account over the phone due to a disability, and asked BOI 
to send his options by email or post.
BOI has said their policy is to have a phone conversation when a customer wants to make 
the changes Mr S requested to their mortgage. This is because theyd need to carry out an 
affordability assessment and a mortgage adviser would need to make a formal 
recommendation to Mr S. So, the phone is used to ensure correct and accurate information 
is gathered. Given the obligation on BOI to ensure any change to a mortgage is affordable, 
I dont consider their policy is unreasonable. But in any event, we dont have the power to 
ask BOI to change it because thats a commercial decision for them to make. 
When BOI responded to Mr S they explained that for them to look into the changes he 
wanted to make to his mortgage, theyd need a phone conversation. Given what Mr S had 
told them about his disability they said he could appoint a trusted person to act on his behalf, 
or that he could use the Relay UK service  and provided the details for that. And having 
reviewed BOIs reasonable adjustment policy, Im satisfied their response provided accurate 
information about this.
Mr S appointed his wife to act on his behalf. However, he doesnt consider doing that 
amounted to a reasonable adjustment because he was unable to manage his mortgage 
account himself.I have taken on board what Mr S has said, and I can see where he is coming from. Following 
my provisional decision, Mr S has explained the Relay UK service may not have been 
suitable because he struggles with his short-term memory. Given this, I can better 
understand why discussing his account over the phone would have been difficult for him to 
do in a way he could be confident he was providing accurate information.
In light of this further clarification from Mr S, I can understand why he felt the alternative 
methods of communication offered by BOI werent suitable for him. Given Mr S wife had 
authority to discuss his account on his behalf, I am satisfied that in these particular 
circumstances there was a way for his account to be discussed with BOI. However, BOI is 
meant to ensure the reasonable adjustments are put in place for the consumer themselves 
to manage their account. So, this is something they may want to be mindful of. 
While I better understand Mr S position on this point, I dont consider the outcome of his 
complaint should change. Thats because he no longer has a mortgage with BOI, so their 
relationship has come to an end. Because of this, theres nothing more for BOI to do to 
enable him to manage his account with them.
Overall level of customer service
BOI has accepted there were occasions where the level of service they provided fell short. 
Having reviewed the information from both parties, I can see there were problems with 
sending post to the wrong address, incorrectly addressing a letter to Mr S late mother, and 
BOI not returning calls when Mr S expected. I can see why this would have caused 
inconvenience to Mr S and resulted in him losing faith in BOIs ability to effectively manage 
his account and communicate with him. This also caused problems with Mr S making the 
changes to his mortgage that he asked for. But I must also bear in mind that there were 
occasions when Mrs S (acting on Mr S behalf) didnt have the information BOI needed to 
discuss the mortgage and where she didnt return their calls either. So, I must be fair to both 
parties and acknowledge there were issues in progressing matters from both sides.
Ive also taken on board what Mr S has said about the time it took BOI to respond to his 
complaint. However, BOI had eight weeks to investigate his concerns and issue their final 
response. The evidence Ive seen demonstrates they did that  however, I appreciate Mr S 
experienced difficulties receiving the final response. As BOI answered Mr S concerns within 
the timeframe Id expect (albeit not with the answers he hoped for), I cant agree they 
subjected him to unreasonable delays regarding this particular issue.
BOIs 8 June 2022 letter offered Mr S £100 in recognition of their mistakes, and they 
explained this award had been paid to the account he used to pay his mortgage. However, 
since my involvement, theyve agreed this award didnt go far enough to recognise the 
impact to Mr S. Theyve now offered to pay an additional £150 (bringing the total to £250) to 
resolve Mr S complaint.
As mentioned above, it was disappointing to see BOI send letters to Mr S late mothers 
address when they had sufficient knowledge of his correct address, and for them to address 
a letter to her after her passing. This would have been upsetting given hed lost his mother. It 
also would have caused Mr S understandable concerns about the safety of his personal 
data. Its also a shame BOI didnt always return calls as Id expect, which caused 
inconvenience and frustration to Mr S  and this is something he communicated to BOI on 
multiple occasions. 
Given the above mistakes, a total award of £250 is in line with what I would have asked BOI 
to pay had they not already made an offer  and subsequently increased it. Therefore, 
I consider the additional £150 offered to be a fair resolution to Mr S complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr S complaint about The Governor and Company of 
the Bank of Ireland.
To put things right, The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland should pay Mr S an 
additional £150 in recognition of the concern caused by writing to his late mothers address 
and their mistakes that affected the overall level of customer service they provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman