DRN-4173449
The complaint
Miss S, through a representative (Mr S) complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) agent 
couldnt locate her address, and despite knowing Miss S was vulnerable she left her address 
to direct the agent to the property. 
In addition, Mr S  who was to be a witness to the loan application process  said the agent 
was unprofessional and unhelpful with her dealings with Miss S and Mr S. 
What happened
On 6 October 2022 Miss S was due to be visited by a Morses agent in order to go through a 
loan application. At this time, Morses knew that Miss S was a vulnerable customer and so as 
part of the application a witness was requested to be there  Mr S. 
Morses said the agent was struggling to identify Miss Ss property and so the agent called 
Miss S to let her know that she was running late. Morses says, Miss S offered to walk along 
the road to sign post the agent to her property. Morses agent says Miss S left her property 
and directed her where to park before entering the property. 
Mr S then arrived at the property  to be the witness to the loan and he has said that the 
agent was unprofessional  because they didnt introduce themselves and was unhelpful 
because they didnt explain when the first loan repayment was due. 
Mr S initially spoke to Morses on the phone about this matter on 11 October 2022 before 
following this with a letter of complaint on 13 October 2022. On 1 November Mr S also raised 
this matter with the police.
Morses issued its final response on this matter  to Mr S through email on 
6 December 2022. It didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint because it concluded that while Miss S 
had left her property, but it didnt consider it had done anything wrong. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr S referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The case was considered by an adjudicator who didnt uphold it. She did agree that Morses 
ought to not have allowed Miss S to leave her property because it knew she was vulnerable 
but as there was no financial loss or harm caused to Miss S then no award was made. 
And with regard to the agents conduct  Mr S arrived after the agent and so the adjudicator 
didnt have enough to say that the agent was rude. Finally, she acknowledged what Mr S 
says about the agents conduct towards him, but as he isnt an eligible complainant the 
adjudicator couldnt make an award to him. 
Overall, the adjudicator didnt recommend any award be paid. 
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr S was unhappy with the outcome, but he didnt provide any further comments or 
evidence for consideration. As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S, as part of his submissions has said that he wants the affordability of Miss Ss loans 
assessed as part of this complaint. However, this complaint is connected to the events that 
have been described above and which formed part of his complaint letter to Morses dated 
13 October 2022. Unaffordable lending wasnt mentioned in this letter, and therefore will not 
form part of the complaint. 
I can see the adjudicator emailed Mr S on 18 May 2023 to give him an update on what 
needs to be done to progress any unaffordable lending complaint as well as letting him know 
the limitations of any future investigation due to a Scheme of Arrangement. 
Miss S leaving the property
There is a difference of opinion about what actually happened that led to Miss S leaving the 
property. Mr S says the agent asked Miss S to leave the property whereas, the agent says 
that after she couldnt locate the property, Miss S offered to help which led her to leave the 
property.  
But what is agreed upon, is that Miss S did leave her property, she located the agent and 
then directed her back to the property. Morses was already on notice that Miss S was 
vulnerable because it had asked for a witness to be present during the loan process. 
So, whether Miss S offered help or not, isnt really the point. Morses knew she was 
vulnerable and so shouldnt have either asked her to leave the property or have accepted 
any help that she offered. So, like the adjudicator I am satisfied that Morses needed to have 
been more mindful of Miss S vulnerability at this time and not asked or endorsed her leaving 
the property. 
However, there isnt a financial loss, and as the adjudicator explained, thankfully, on this 
occasion no harm came to Miss S. On this occasion, however, I am not awarding any 
compensation. 
The agents conduct
Mr S has explained in the complaint letter, why he felt the agent was rude and 
unprofessional. I must start by echoing what the adjudicator said. Whether the agent was 
rude or did or didnt introduce themselves to Mr S doesnt change the fact that he isnt for the 
purposes of this complaint an eligible complainant. And so, even if I were to conclude that 
the agent acted in an unprofessional manner towards him  I wouldnt be able to recommend 
any compensation be paid to him. 
Ive also had to consider that Mr S appears to have arrived at the property after Miss S had 
met the agent. And in this case, Ive not seen enough to say that the agent was rude or 
unprofessional before then. 
The agent has provided some testimony around the repayment date for this loan, there does 
appear, given what she has said, that there was a discussion about the payment date being a Tuesday or a Thursday. This couldve have led to either some confusion and / or it not 
being clear when the first payment for this loan was due  I cant be sure. But if there was 
any confusion, there was ample opportunity for either Miss S or Mr S to have asked for this 
information to be confirmed. In any event, I dont think this would be enough to warrant a 
payment of compensation. 
Overall, having thought about all of the evidence that has been provided to me, Im not 
upholding the complaint. I appreciate Miss S and Mr S will be disappointed by the outcome.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman