DRN-1442482
 
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy that Mrs D took out in 2007 in connection with a credit 
card.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mrs D disagreed with the 
adjudicator's conclusions so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Tesco Bank made it clear that Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI, 
but she chose to take it out. I say this because Mrs D completed the box on the credit 
card application form to show that she wanted the cover. In the same section of the 
form there were other types of insurance that Mrs D could've chosen, but it seems 
she decided not to. So I think Mrs D would've realised she had a choice about buying 
the PPI. 
Tesco Bank didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. Mrs D had to decide that for herself. But even if Tesco Bank had 
recommended the policy to Mrs D, it doesn't look like it was unsuitable for her based 
on what I've seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs D says she was entitled to 
generous sick pay from her employer, and that she had savings and other insurance 
policies in place - although she hasn't been about to provide any information 
about her savings and insurance. So I can't safely say that the PPI duplicated the 
insurance benefits she says she had. The policy would've paid out in addition to Mrs 
D's employer sick pay and would do so, it seems, for longer. And it would've meant 
she could use her savings to cover other expenses. So I think Mrs D would've had 
some use for the policy, despite her existing arrangements.
Its possible the information Tesco Bank gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs D's circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover.Which means Tesco Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs 
D.
 
But Tesco Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D because: 
Tesco Bank got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs D about that. Because Tesco Bank didnt 
tell Mrs D, that was unfair.
To put that right, Tesco Bank has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mrs D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman