DRN-3612669
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was harassed by Prodigy Finance LTD (Prodigy).
What happened
Mr M took a loan from Prodigy in November 2018  to fund university fees. The amount 
was Euro 63,550 (including the arrangement fee) and the rate was 6.5% over Euribor. 
Monthly repayments were Euro 732.03 over 120 months. Payments were made until 
August 2020, when payments stopped until a payment of Euro 2,000 in December 2020, 
and then Euro 600 in January 2021. Interest was suspended in September 2021. 
Payments of Euro 150 started in November 2021.
Mr M received a solicitors letter in January 2021 which asked for repayment proposals, 
and a letter of demand from them in April 2021.The loan was defaulted and terminated in 
October 2021.
Mr M complained. He said he had been harassed by Prodigy. He had received 22 emails 
in 30 days, plus solicitors letters. He had no income and he was in financial difficulty  he 
had told Prodigy that and he said that should be the end of it. He didnt see why he should 
tell Prodigy about his financial situation in detail. He didnt see why he should disclose his 
medical records either. He said he should be refunded interest and fees, and any legal 
fees payable.
In April 2021, Prodigy said theyd acted fairly. Their process was to contact Mr M because 
payments werent received. They said theyd tried to contact Mr M ten times between 
October 2020 and April 2021. Theyd asked Mr M to complete a financial assessment to 
see how they could help him with a form of forbearance on the loan, but he hadnt 
responded.
Prodigy said their process was to send a legal notice after there were four missed 
payments on a loan. They asked that Mr M complete the financial assessment by 7 April 
2021.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Prodigy had acted reasonably in 
trying to contact Mr M and in writing to him. She said Prodigy wanted to establish Mr Ms 
situation and that was reasonable. But she said that it was obvious in March 2021 that Mr 
M couldnt make any repayments and so the default should be backdated to then, and 
interest  not charged from that date either.
Prodigy didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at Mr Ms complaint.
They said the only way they can determine what forbearance measures were appropriate 
was to understand Mr Ms financial situation  and theyd asked him many times about that, 
but without any success. That way, they could ensure only those borrowers in need are 
given assistance. But Mr M repeatedly ignored or rejected their requests for information. 
And because of the time delays in trying to contact Mr M - meant that the time to default 
from when payments stopped was ten months. They said they were fair and open to 
engaging with Mr M throughout. Prodigy said that it was a characteristic of their 
international post- graduate loan scheme that borrowers were liable to periods of 
unemployment from time to time  as they are internationally mobile customers. And in that 
context, they wanted to  understand Mr Ms situation  as he couldve obtained 
employment at any time.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
The crux of Mr Ms complaint is that he was hassled by Prodigy when his income stopped 
and he stopped the loan payments. He says Prodigy acted unreasonably and contacted 
him too frequently about the loan. He said he told them he had no income  and that 
shouldve been sufficient for them to agree forbearance on the loan. He said he had a 
serious medical condition which also stopped him from working. Because he felt that 
Prodigys actions were unreasonable, he said they should refund interest on the loan and 
the legal fees that had been incurred.
Businesses have an obligation to treat customers in financial difficulty sympathetically. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance on this is:
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance 
and due consideration.
Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing 
one or more of the following:
- considering suspending, reducing, waiving, or cancelling any further interest 
or charges
- allowing deferment of payment of arrears
- accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time
- Where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a firm should 
allow the customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt.
So  Ive considered Mr Ms complaint in the light of the FCAs guidance. 
Mr M had told Prodigy he had no income and was therefore in difficulty. I can see he told 
Prodigy that in emails, as well as that he had a serious medical condition. He says that 
shouldve been enough. But unfortunately, I dont agree. Lenders do need to understand a 
customers income and expenditure to see their current situation but also how long that 
might continue  in other words, how long a customer might need support for, and how 
serious the circumstances are. They can then work out whats best for both the lender and 
the borrower. In the case of Mr M, they might have agreed to suspend loan payments and 
interest  but it wouldve been reasonable for them to understand how long that might 
continue for. Or indeed if partial payments were possible. I can see that Prodigy did try to 
contact Mr M many times during the period in question  and each time, asked him to go 
online and complete a provided the link to do that. I think that was reasonable. Mr M also 
told Prodigy that he had a serious medical condition which prevented him from working
 and Prodigy asked him for more evidence of that. Mr M didnt agree to provide that 
information. But again, I think that was a reasonable request from Prodigy.
In Prodigys later emails  in March 2021 and April 2021 - it may have been that if Mr M 
had completed the assessment, a form of payment holiday couldve been agreed under 
the FCAs scheme to help borrowers affected by the pandemic. But again, to give Mr M 
that support, it was reasonable for Prodigy to understand Mr Ms circumstances.I also considered the tone of Prodigys requests  and I found them to be professional and 
supportive. For example, in September 2020 they asked We are reaching out to find out 
whether you are experiencing any difficulties that are hindering you from making payments 
towards your loan. If you are, please reach out in order for our team to inform you of our 
forbearance options.
On 5 November 2020, Prodigy wrote I have tried reaching out to you to find out what 
difficulties you are facing that could be preventing you from paying your loan and to 
explain to you the different solutions that may be available to you so that you can repay 
your loan. You have advised us of your situation. We are writing for you to complete the 
forbearance assessment in order for us to get to a solution for you.
On 18 January 2021, Prodigy wrote Trust that the new year is treating you well. I am 
reaching out to confirm if your situation has changed and how much you're able to pay 
towards the loan for January.
On 3 March 2021 Prodigy wrote Hope all is good. I have taken the liberty of sending our 
forbearance request should your situation have changed. If youre experiencing financial 
difficulty as a result of the COVID-19 situation, were here to help. First, tell us more about 
your situation by completing the forbearance assessment below.
And so  I think the tone of Prodigys email contacts were reasonable.
Prodigy suspended interest in October 2021 and havent charged interest since then. 
Which is a reasonable and fair thing to do. Mr M made an offer of Euro150 per month in 
October 2021 - and made those payments from then until February 2022. I havent 
checked the current status of the loan. But while Mr M is making the payments, Prodigy 
have asked for more information about Mr Ms circumstances  for the same reasons as 
Ive set out  to see how appropriate or sustainable the payments are.
Our investigator said the default should be backdated to March 2021 (from October 2021) 
and the interest refunded back to then also. But based on what Ive seen  Prodigy were 
reasonably asking Mr M for information for a long time to give him time to work things out. 
So, I dont think its fair to ask Prodigy to backdate the default and interest in that way. So 
 I dont propose that Prodigy need to do anything here.
Mr M is based in Ukraine. Ive looked at Mr Ms complaint as it was put to Prodigy and to 
us. And assessed it in line with our normal processes. But - we asked Prodigy about their 
policy for customers who are affected by the conflict in Ukraine. They told us that they 
dont expect any payments as forbearance, neither will they charge any interest (although 
Mr M hasnt been charged interest anyway since October 2021). This policy was to be 
reviewed at the end of June 2022.
I understand Mr M is in financial difficulty and it maybe thats still the case. But in summary, I 
dont think that Prodigy acted unreasonably and this provisional decision is that they dont
need to do anything here.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Prodigy agreed with the findings. Mr M didnt respond.
I now need to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr M didnt respond, and Prodigy agreed with the provisional decision, I wont be 
departing from it in my final decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman