DRN-3857394
The complaint
Mr H complains that his Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) with-
profits pension plan with Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited has not grown in value for the 
2021 calendar year by the level he wouldve anticipated.
He is unhappy that Aviva have been unable to explain to him how theyve arrived at the 
bonus decisions theyve made.
What happened
Mr H holds an FSAVC that he took out in 1984 which is invested in an ex-Norwich Union 
with-profits fund. The policy has a sum assured, a regular, special and final bonus.
The guaranteed benefit on the policy includes the sum assured and the regular bonus. In 
January 2021, Aviva applied a special bonus of 15% to Mr Hs guaranteed benefit. The year 
after this was reduced to 12%.
On 4 February 2022, Mr H contacted Aviva complaining the increase in value of his pension 
plan in the period of 27 January 2021 to 27 January 2022 had been pitiful. Mr H wanted an 
explanation around why Aviva had reduced the regular and special bonuses on his plan as 
he was of the view their decision-making lacked transparency and was obscure. 
In their reply to Mr H of 25 February 2022, Aviva stated that his policy had increased by 
around £3,000 over the previous year (from 2021 to 2022). They explained that was 
because of the special bonus that had been applied to his plan. Aviva also pointed out that 
given the age of Mr Hs policy and as his guaranteed benefit value was in excess of the 
asset share of the fund, if he were to transfer his policy at that point his plan wouldnt be 
entitled to a balancing, final bonus. They also explained that any amount the fund was able 
to pay out through a special bonus was reviewed annually and driven by the reserves they 
needed to hold back to act as a buffer. 
Aviva went on to explain that information relating to how bonuses are calculated are 
commercially sensitive and they were unable to share such insight with him. They concluded 
that Mr Hs pension had grown by 7.4% per annum since inception which mirrored the 
assets in the with-profits fund. And as such, Mr H hadnt been financially disadvantaged in 
any way.
As Aviva hadnt upheld Mr Hs complaint, he referred his concerns to this service. He said in 
summary, Aviva had not treated him fairly or been clear with him. He felt Avivas 
explanations around how theyd reached the bonus decisions theyd made were opaque. He 
wanted to understand why the most recent bonus that had been applied to his plan was less 
than what hed received in the previous year.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that Aviva 
had been fair in their dealings with Mr H. He was satisfied that Aviva had provided a 
sufficient explanation to Mr H about the different elements of his pension along with how 
they approach their bonus decision making process. Our Investigator didnt feel it reasonable 
for Aviva to have to explain the granularity of their bonus decision making process.
Mr H however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he said that he 
thought as a policyholder, he should be entitled to review how the Actuary had reached their 
decisions. He felt that having deferred the decision to take an annuity for a year, there was a 
reasonable expectation that international markets should have improved, and so should his 
bonus. He explained that it wasnt unreasonable to conclude that in a good investment year, 
the fund should have improved leading to greater pay-outs for policyholders.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe Mr H had 
presented any new arguments hed not already considered or responded to already.
Mr H then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that 
outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr H has done and, Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this; our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. Instead, I will focus on what I find to be the key issue here  and thats Mr Hs 
disappointment that his special bonus was reduced by £3,000 on his plan for the most recent 
policy year.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Hs complaint and thats because in order to do so, 
I would need to find that something has gone wrong and that he has lost out as a result. But, 
having carefully considered the points Mr H has made regarding Avivas failure to explain the 
background to their bonus decisions, I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same 
reasons. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr H is likely to be disappointed by my decision, the level and nature of 
bonuses declared by Aviva on its with-profits fund is the result of a commercial decision 
taken by them acting on the advice of its Actuaries which impacts all policyholders invested 
in that fund. As a result, it is not within the remit of this service to either sense check Avivas 
decisions or scrutinise their calculations. 
But, I think its worth explaining about with-profits funds and how they are regulated. With-
profits funds have historically attracted criticism for their complexity and perceived lack of 
transparency  it can be very difficult for policyholders to understand often complex and 
lengthy documentation and to be satisfied that they are receiving their proper entitlement 
under the terms and conditions of the particular product. But those difficulties do not 
necessarily mean that Aviva has done something wrong or is not acting in accordance with 
its regulatory obligations. The industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), recognises that with-profits 
fund providers have a considerable amount of discretion about how they operate those 
funds. So, the regulator has made providers accountable for the way in which these funds 
are managed. 
The regulators Principle 6 requires that regulated firms must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly. Furthermore, the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS), and specifically COBS 20, contains specific rules and guidance for 
businesses on the operation of their with-profits funds. 
COBS 20.2.1 states: 
(1) With- profits business, by virtue of its nature and the extent of discretion applied by 
firms in its operation, involves numerous potential conflicts of interest that might give 
rise to the unfair treatment of policyholders. 
And COBS 20.2.3 states: 
A firm must have good reason to believe that its pay-outs on individual with-profits 
polices are fair.
Aviva is accountable to the regulator for the way in which it operates its with-profits fund and 
the regulator monitors the management of with-profits funds. Businesses are required to 
appoint a with-profits Actuary and the regulator provides rules and guidance on their duties. 
An independent with-profits committee is also required  its remit is to protect the interests of 
the with-profits policyholders and to ensure that they are treated fairly. I am not aware of the 
regulator having any concerns about the operation of Avivas with-profits fund at issue here. 
The amount of bonus paid, if any, is determined by Avivas investment objectives which are 
consistent with its regulatory obligations. Thats to allocate bonus amounts as fairly as 
possible to all its investors in its with-profits fund with the aim of providing a competitive 
return at the end of the term. Aviva have explained that any decision to pay a bonus is 
proposed by their Actuary who then consults with their with-profit committee and then the 
final decision on whether to pay bonuses rests with Avivas board. So, it seems to me Aviva 
has checks and measures in place to demonstrate to the regulator how they reached any 
decision to pay (or not pay) a bonus. Their decision-making approach appears to mirror that 
set out by the regulator that Ive already mentioned above. However, it is not the role of this 
service to audit those decisions and assess the level of the special bonus Aviva has 
awarded Mr H. The responsibility for auditing Aviva falls on the regulator.
Its important to remember that bonus rates take into account various factors. These include 
not just current or recent investment performance (which Mr H has referred to in his 
complaint) but also how Aviva expect the fund to perform in the future, as well as the funds 
liabilities in respect of the guaranteed benefits applicable to all plans. Aviva have already 
acknowledged the returns will vary every year and just because a low or no special bonus is 
paid in one year, it doesnt necessarily mean thatll be the same in the following years. Ive 
looked at the FSAVC terms and conditions from when Mr Hs plan was taken out in 1984. 
The literature doesnt provide any warranty that a special bonus would be applied to the plan 
so such payments are at the discretion of Aviva.
Ive also looked at the various documents that Aviva have shared with Mr H. Whilst 
investment performance has been volatile but at the same time reasonable, Aviva cant 
distribute all of the returns it makes. Thats because by their very nature, with-profits funds 
have to hold some monies back to smooth out the returns for policyholders when the 
markets may be depressed in the future.This service doesnt have the same level of information thats available to the Actuaries who 
make bonus decisions and manage the with-profits fund. In addition, the customer service 
staff at Aviva wont have this level of information either  so they wont know what bonus 
decisions might be around the corner. Such information is also likely to be market-sensitive 
when you consider Aviva is listed on the stock market and has shareholders. As such, its 
inappropriate for this service to direct Aviva to share that information with either ourselves or 
Mr H.
From 2004 the regulator has required all insurers to publish a Principles and Practices of 
Financial Management (PPFM) document. Ive checked and this is available on Avivas 
website. It explains the steps Aviva are taking in managing the returns and level of 
guarantees within Mr Hs fund. In addition, details of the asset allocation of the fund is 
covered along with a history of the returns and bonuses Aviva have applied. 
Having carefully considered Avivas correspondence with Mr H, Im satisfied Aviva has 
broadly explained the factors that have led to the situation he has complained about. But I 
am mindful of the opaque nature of these funds and the explanations that Aviva has given - 
or we cant give  doesnt always satisfy consumers.
Whilst it may not directly satisfy Mr Hs request for more insight on Avivas bonus decisions, 
Aviva have explained that his pension has grown by 7.4% per annum since inception which 
mirrored the assets in the with-profits fund he is in. So, it seems to me his returns are 
broadly reflective of the underlying assets in his plan.
For all of these reasons Im unable to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Nor can I direct Aviva to 
disclose its calculations to Mr H as this could involve revealing commercially sensitive 
information and I dont consider that fair or reasonable. If Mr H has concerns about the 
management of Avivas with-profits fund he can approach the regulator directly.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint and I wont be asking Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited to 
take any further action
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman