DRN-3396823
The complaint
Mrs B complains that OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance Banking Services 
(KRBS) breached the terms of her bond agreement by not notifying her 14 days before the 
bond matured. She also complains that she was told it could take up to five working days for 
the money to be paid into her bank account on maturity. 
What happened
In September 2020 Mrs B took out a one year fixed rate bond with KRBS. The bond was due 
to mature on 14 September 2021 and KRBS committed to writing to Mrs B fourteen days 
before maturity to set out her options. 
KRBS wrote to Mrs B on 1 September 2021. On 6 September 2021 she called KRBS as she 
had not received the letter. She was told that the letter had been posted on 1 September, as 
31 August 2021 was a bank holiday. She was also told that the money could only be 
withdrawn to her bank account (not transferred to a different bond provider) and that it could 
take up to 5 days for the money to reach her nominated bank account. 
On 8 September 2021 Mrs B received the maturity letter from KRBS, and shortly after 
notified KRBS that she wanted to withdraw the funds to her bank account. The funds were 
paid to Mrs B on 15 September 2021, the day after the bond matured. 
Mrs B complained about receiving the letter only 6 days before her bond maturity, and the 
timescales she was given for receiving the money. KRBS looked into the complaint, but 
didnt think it had done anything wrong, so Mrs B referred the complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, but he didnt agree it should be upheld. In 
short, he considered that KRBS had sent her the letter as close as possible to 14 days 
before maturity, and it couldnt be held responsible for delays in the post. He also considered 
it reasonable that KRBS give 5 working days as timescale for payments to be made, 
because this was dependant on receiving banks and their processes  which isnt something 
KRBS had any control over. 
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator. She said that KRBS reneged on the contract and 
should have written to her 14 days prior to maturity, but didnt. She said that it was 
imperative that she received the letter 14 days before as it took time to find another bond 
provider  and she could have been significantly worse off. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B, but I dont have much to add to what the investigator has 
already said. 
I understand the matter has caused Mrs B some upset, and she has made references to 
KRBS reneging on the contract and the hypothetical impact this could have had. But my role 
isnt to determine contractual disputes, or to award compensation for hypothetical losses  
nor is it to punish businesses. My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. And here, whilst I accept that KRBS wrote to Mrs B 13 days, not 14 days, 
before maturity, it didnt have any impact on Mrs B. She already knew when her bond was 
going to mature, and she was already aware that she could withdraw her money to her 
account if she wanted to invest in another bond. And I note that she didnt even need the 6 
days she did have to decide  as she basically made her decision to withdraw the funds as 
soon as she received the maturity letter. 
For these reasons, Im not persuaded theres anything further KRBS needed to do  it 
explained the reasons why the letter was posted on 1 September, and I agree with the 
investigator that the length of time it took to get to her, even if posted second class, was 
beyond KRBSs control. Im not persuaded theres been any detriment to Mrs B or her 
investment such that KRBS ought to pay compensation. 
Finally Mrs B has also raised the timeframe for payment on maturity. This is very standard, 
and I accept KRBSs explanation for it. Namely, it gives this timeframe to customers because 
itll depend on whether or not the receiving bank is capable of receiving faster payments. 
This isnt something itll know until it is given the details of the bank it is required to remit the 
payment to. So it gives 5 working days as a maximum timeframe. I think its highly relevant 
that in Mrs Bs case, the money was remitted to her the day after maturity  so here too, 
there was no impact on Mrs B or her investment. 
For these reasons Im satisfied that KRBS has done nothing wrong and has treated Mrs B 
fairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman