DRN-2690439
The complaint
Miss L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
What happened
In 2020 Miss L tried to make an international transfer from her sterling account with NatWest 
to a third partys account in the United States, as an investment. Unfortunately, the third 
partys bank returned the money to NatWest two weeks later, citing a concern about fraud 
(but it did not explain any more than that). Miss Ls money had been converted from sterling 
into dollars when it was sent, and when it was returned NatWest converted it back into 
sterling again, without asking her what she wanted to do with it. Due to the exchange rate 
having changed in the meantime, this meant that Miss L lost nearly £2,700. She wants that 
money back.
NatWest accepted that it should have asked Miss L what she wanted to do with the money 
when it was returned, instead of just converting it back into sterling again. It asked her what 
she would have asked it to do with the money instead, because if shed had another bank 
account in the United States, it could have sent the money to that account in dollars, instead 
of converting it. Unfortunately, Miss L did not understand the question, and thought she was 
being asked what she would have done with the money if it had not been returned by the 
other bank. So she brought this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator asked Miss L if she had another American bank account, and she said she 
did not. So the investigator decided that if NatWest had asked her what to do with the 
money, it would not have made any difference to what happened  NatWest would have had 
no choice but to return it to her sterling account, and to do that it would have had to convert it 
into sterling. So she did not uphold this complaint. She said that NatWest was not 
responsible for the money being returned. She did however persuade NatWest to agree to 
pay Miss L £100 as compensation for not having at least asked her what she wanted.
Miss L asked for an ombudsman to look into her case again, and so her complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I regret to tell Miss L that I cannot uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Firstly, it is not NatWests fault that the money was returned to it. That was the decision of 
the other bank, and there was nothing NatWest could do about it. NatWest could not just 
send the money back again. It had to accept it.
Secondly, I agree that NatWest should have asked Miss L what she wanted to do with the 
money, just in case she had another account into which the money could be paid in dollars. 
However, she did not have such an account, she only had the NatWest account the money 
had been in originally. So there was nothing NatWest could do except to put the money back 
into that account  and since it was a sterling account, that meant that her money had to be 
converted back into sterling again.
That means I have to agree that NatWests failure to ask Miss L what she wanted made no 
difference to the outcome. The money had to be converted into sterling, whether she liked it 
or not, and NatWest had no choice in the matter. It is unfortunate that the exchange rate had 
changed so that the dollar amount had become worth less, in sterling, than it had been worth 
two weeks earlier, but that is not NatWests fault.
I am pleased to see that NatWest has still offered Miss L £100 for its error, even though its 
error made no difference to the outcome. (I think it would be more accurate to call this a 
gesture of good will, rather than compensation.)
Miss L has said that she did not know that what happened could happen. I believe her, but 
I dont think that NatWest failed to warn her, because that situation is mentioned in the terms 
and conditions of her account. Paragraphs 6 and 7.1 read as follows:
6 If a Payment is returned, it will be re-credited to the originating Account. If the 
Payment is returned in a different currency from the currency of the Account, it will 
be converted at the exchange rate applicable at the date and time it is credited to the 
Account. This means that the Payment to the Account may be more or less than the 
original debit.
7.1 The Bank does not accept liability for any loss arising from any cause beyond 
the Banks control or for any delay in transit or for any failure in the Payment 
reaching the intended Beneficiarys account, unless such delay or failure is caused 
by the negligence or wilful default of the Bank.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I leave it to Miss L to decide whether 
she wishes to accept the £100 which National Westminster Bank Plc has offered her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman