DRN-4275245
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the premiums charged by Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) for a 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Several years ago, Mr W took out a home insurance policy through an insurance 
intermediary. When the policy renewed in May 2022, the premium changed from £921 to 
£273. So, Mr W complained to Zurich because he said he had been overcharged for his 
policy over several years.
When Zurich replied, it said the reasons for the reduction in the premium was that the policy 
migrated to Zurich from another insurer. The premium charged by the previous insurer was 
higher than Zurichs new business rate. When the policy renewed in 2022, a procedure was 
in place to ensure fair pricing, so the renewal premium had been calculated on Zurichs 
premium rate rather than the previous insurers historic premium, which had led to the 
reduced premium.
Mr W complained to this service, as he remained of the view that he had been overcharged. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Zurich had treated Mr W in the same 
way as any customer in similar circumstances, so it had treated him fairly.
As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 21 June 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Mr W took out a policy through an insurance intermediary, whose name was on the policy. In 
2016, the insurer underwriting the policy changed to Zurich. Zurich decided to base its 
renewal premiums on the previous insurers premiums. It told this service, it was to avoid 
price shock for the customers. Each year, Zurich continued to calculate the renewal 
premium based on the previous insurers premium. In 2022, Zurich decided to review the 
pricing based on what it would have charged if the customer has just come to them newly. It 
used its own premium ratings rather than the previous insurers. It said, although this meant 
Mr Ws premium went down, the premiums for some other customers increased. Zurich told 
this service all customers were subject to the same pricing and underwriting 
methodology, ensuring all were treated fairly and consistently.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out the Principles for Business in the FCA 
Handbook.  Principle 6 says A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly. So, Ive thought about whether Zurich has treated Mr W fairly. 
When Zurich took over underwriting the policies from the previous insurer, it seemed to do 
so on the basis that it wouldnt assess the individual circumstances of each customer, but 
would instead rely on an assumption that the previous insurers view and price of the risk 
was broadly in line with its own. In the first year or two, I might think this was fair, as this was 
Zurichs opportunity to get to know its customers, including Mr W. That timeframe would 
have allowed Zurich to assess and apply a risk rating based on its own view of it, along with 
how it would price that risk. However, Zurich continued to rely on the previous insurers 
pricing for several years and only changed its approach to these policies when the 
regulations changed. At that point, Mr Ws premium significantly decreased.
I asked Zurich to provide the premiums it would have charged if it applied its own 
underwriting criteria to Mr Ws premiums. Zurich said it was unable to provide this for the first 
two years, but provided the premiums for more recent years. These were 2018-19 - £260.77, 
2019-20 - £256.13, 2020-21 - £272.69, 2021-22 - £274.53 2022-23 - £273.23
Although Zurich has said that if it had charged the premium based on its own underwriting 
criteria, this would have resulted in a price shock for Mr W, I dont accept Mr W was likely 
to have said it was unwelcome or unfair to charge him a considerably lower premium based 
on Zurichs own underwriting criteria. I think any shock was likely to be a pleasant one for 
Mr W. This remains the case even if other customers might have been shocked by an 
increase in their own premiums. This wasnt Mr Ws issue to deal with. Based on what Ive 
seen, I dont think I can say Zurich treated Mr W reasonably or fairly as an individual by 
charging him such high premiums for such a prolonged period.
So, I currently intend to uphold this complaint and to require Zurich, from 2018-19 onwards, 
to refund Mr W the difference in premiums between what he paid and what Zurich would 
have charged had it applied its own underwriting criteria without factoring in the previous 
insurers premium. It should also play interest on this amount because Mr W lost use of the 
money. I think Mr W has also been caused distress and inconvenience by the way Zurich 
treated him. So, I also intend to say Zurich should pay Mr W £100 compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 19 July 2023. 
Zurich acknowledged receipt of my decision and requested an extension to respond as it 
wanted to consider its position. It was given an extension but did not provide a response by 
the deadline.
Mr W confirmed he did not have any further information to provide. He suggested a 
reference to Mr W in the document should be to Zurich. I should note that I have made this 
change in the above wording.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
Having looked at this complaint again, I have found no reason to change my view on how it 
should be resolved.
Putting things right
Zurich should refund the difference in premiums from 2018-19 onwards and pay interest on 
that amount. It should also pay £100 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Zurich Insurance PLC to:
Refund the difference in premiums from 2018-19 onwards.
Pay 8% simple interest on the amount refunded from the date on which Mr W made each 
payment to the date on which it pays the refund.
Pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman