DRN-3121946
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that their restaurant insurance policy was unfairly voided 
(treated as though it had never been in place) by Accelerant Insurance Limited. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P own premises that were used as a restaurant with staff accommodation 
above.
Trading ceased in late March 2020 as a result of the first lockdown measures and the staff 
accommodation became empty. The restaurant didnt reopen. Mrs P said they always 
planned to reopen but didnt do so in 2020 as it wasnt viable with government restrictions at 
that time. While the restaurant was closed, they redecorated it and removed the commercial 
kitchen. 
In July 2020 Mr and Mrs P applied for planning permission to turn the site into residential 
properties and that planning application was approved in September 2020.
Accelerant invited Mr and Mrs P to renew their restaurant package insurance policy at the 
beginning of January 2021. Accelerant is linked to their previous insurer which provided 
their policy until 30 January 2021. It asked Mr and Mrs P to confirm various statements 
about their business. 
On 11 January 2021 Mr and Mrs P made a claim to their previous insurer after a burst pipe 
in the loft caused serious water damage.
On 18 January 2021 Mr and Mrs P told Accelerant about the planning permission for 
change of use. They said they werent pursuing the change at that time. Accelerant told 
them the existing policy would no longer be suitable if they did carry out structural 
alterations.
On renewal of their policy on 30 January 2021 the insurer changed to Accelerant.
After investigation the previous insurer declined the claim and cancelled its policy. It said at 
some point after March 2020 the risk had materially changed from when its policy started in 
January 2020. That was because after March 2020 the entire commercial kitchen had been 
stripped out and as at January 2021 hadnt been replaced, with no plans in place to replace 
it. Also in July 2020 planning permission had been obtained to convert the restaurant into 
residential accommodation. 
Similarly Accelerant said if it had known the risk had been materially altered in such a way, 
it wouldnt have offered to renew the policy in January 2021. So it voided the policy.
Mr and Mrs P brought a complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining 
why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. An extract from my provisional findings is 
set out below:
As Mr and Mrs P are commercial policyholders, they have a duty to make a fair 
presentation of the risk to the insurer when taking out or renewing a policy. This means they 
have to disclose either:
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an 
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
There are some exceptions. For example, the policyholder doesnt have to disclose 
something if the insurer already knows (or should reasonably know) about it.
Ive thought about whether, in this instance, Mr and Mrs P made a fair presentation of the 
risk they were asking Accelerant to cover. Its understandable that Accelerant would want to 
know if Mr and Mrs P were no longer trading as a restaurant from the premises as that in my 
view was fundamental to the nature of the risk insured. It was a restaurant policy and so if 
the premises were no longer being used for that purpose, that would change the nature of 
the risk materially. 
Mr and Mrs P have pointed out that Accelerant was aware prior to renewal from the loss 
adjusters visit in connection with their claim that the premises had no kitchen and they were 
no longer trading. 
The loss adjusters report was provided to Accelerant on 22 January 2021 
following a visit about a week or so earlier. It described the business as Indian 
restaurant (no longer trading).
The loss adjuster went on to say that:
We are aware that in July 2020 the Insured applied for planning permission to turn the site 
into three residential properties and that the planning application was approved in 
September 2020. This was readily disclosed by the Insured at our site meeting. The Insured 
also confirmed that the site has previously been offered for sale (although it is currently off 
the market) and the application for conversion to residential use was made with the intention 
of making the site more attractive to potential buyers. The Insured have no plans to 
undertake the conversion themselves.
In the event that the property cannot be sold the intention is to recommence 
trading but not as an Indian restaurant. It was noted that the Insured has already 
stripped out the commercial kitchen and in the event trading recommences the 
intention is to return to a Portuguese cuisine menu. In the light of ongoing Covid-
19 restrictions the Insured have yet to decide whether to recommence trading or 
to put the site back on the market for sale.
I think this was sufficient to put Accelerant on notice that the restaurant business had been 
discontinued, possibly on a permanent basis. That being the case, I dont think it was fair for 
Accelerant to say that Mr and Mrs P had failed to make a fair presentation of the risk to it 
before the policy was renewed. It was reasonable for Mr and Mrs P to assume that the 
information theyd given the loss adjuster would be passed on to Accelerant in view of its 
connection with its previous insurer as indeed was the case.
Im minded to say that Accelerant should mark the policy as lapsed at 30 January 2021 and 
take steps to remove any reference to the voidance of Mr and Mrs Ps policy from any 
insurance databases it may report to. I also think it should pay £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by the unfair voidance.Accelerant accepted my provisional decision. Mrs P strongly denied telling the loss adjuster 
that their intention was to put the property back on the market before it was re-opened. She 
said they couldnt afford to close the restaurant and advertise it for sale as it was their main 
source of income which also why they wanted to try and sell it in the future as a going 
concern with the planning permission as an option. She said she told the loss adjuster they 
were re-opening once they were able to due to the restrictions at that time and once the 
damage caused by the water leak had been repaired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs P was so upset that for whatever reason the loss adjuster had 
misunderstood her and Mr Ps future intention regarding the business. Im prepared to 
accept that Mr and Mrs P intended to re-open the restaurant as soon as the pandemic 
restrictions had been lifted and the damage caused by the water leak had been repaired.
Mr and Mrs Ps broker had explained all this to Accelerant after theyd received notice that it 
intended to void their policy. But Accelerant didnt void the policy because of Mr and Mrs Ps 
future intentions regarding the restaurant. It did so because theyd removed the entire 
commercial kitchen. Because of that the premises couldnt be considered as a restaurant. 
That meant the type of premises Accelerant was insuring had materially changed. Because I 
think Accelerant should have been aware of this, I dont think it treated Mr and Mrs P fairly in 
voiding the policy. 
Im satisfied Accelerant wouldnt have offered to renew the policy if it had known the risk had 
been materially altered in such a way. 
Putting things right
I remain of the opinion that Accelerant should mark the policy as lapsed at 30 January 2021 
and take steps to remove any reference to the voidance of Mr and Mrs Ps policy from any 
insurance databases it may report to. I also think it should pay £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by the unfair voidance.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Accelerant Insurance Limited to do what is set out in the 
section above headed Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman