DRN-2453097
The complaint
Ms W has complained Nationwide Building Society wouldnt refund her for an unauthorised 
transaction without her going through what she felt were unnecessary process hoops.
What happened
Ms W contacted Nationwide in May 2020 as she saw a transaction for £47.94 shed not 
authorised. This transaction was made online using her debit card details but she didnt use 
this card for any online activity so wondered why Nationwide hadnt automatically picked it 
up as fraudulent.
Nationwide required her to state her card (or details) had been lost or stolen. Ms W didnt 
believe this reflected what had happened. Although her card details had been used for a 
transaction shed not authorised, she still had her card. She was concerned she was being 
required to make an untrue statement. She was then on a further call asked to agree to a 
further statement she disagreed with about raising a dispute.
Ms W used her app to block further transactions on her debit card. As Nationwide told her 
they didnt think theyd done anything wrong, Ms W brought her complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. As she didnt think Ms W had authorised the 
transaction, she got Nationwide to agree to refund the £47.94 which had debited Ms Ws 
account. However she had to disappoint Ms W otherwise. She wouldnt have expected 
Nationwide to have picked up the transaction initially, nor did she think it was unreasonable 
to have processes in place to manage fraudulent transactions.
Ms W didnt agree with this outcome. She also hadnt received any reimbursement from 
Nationwide. Her complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explain below why Ive reached the decision I have. Im aware what our investigator said in 
her view of 16 November 2020 but am only mentioning below those aspects that have an 
impact on the decision Im making here.
Firstly I dont think theres any dispute the transaction Ms W complained about was not 
made or authorised by her. Ms W didnt use this card for any online transactions and 
Nationwide hasnt provided us with any evidence to suggest otherwise. 
Therefore in line with the Payment Services Regulations, Id expect Nationwide to refund 
her. That doesnt mean they cant ask her any questions about this but I wouldnt expect her 
to fail being refunded just by refusing to agree her card was lost or stolen.
As it happens, Nationwide did agree to refund Ms W as a gesture of goodwill. I know Ms W 
says she didnt receive this payment. Nationwide has since confirmed they were awaiting 
Ms Ws agreement. They have, however, agreed to make this payment after recent 
discussion. Im confident this will now be made as Nationwide has confirmed they will do 
this.
Ms W spoke to Nationwide twice in May when she first disputed the transaction. She didnt 
accept her card had been lost or stolen as it remained in her possession. It was explained 
that it was the card details that had been compromised (and therefore stolen). But Ms W 
refused to agree to a statement that she didnt believe applied to her situation.
The second call was when Nationwide contacted her after theyd looked into what happened. 
As Ms W had never authorised the initial transaction, she wouldnt agree to the declaration 
Nationwides case handler suggested applied here. She didnt see why she needed to raise 
a dispute (although Nationwide would be managing this process) as shed not made the 
payment. 
I appreciate this is a matter of principle for Ms W. And I absolutely understand her frustration 
with a process which didnt seem to cater for her specific circumstances. However Im not 
able to tell Nationwide what systems and processes they should adopt as thats not the role 
of our service. I can pick up on things which have had an unfair impact on individual 
customers. I may well have done that here but as Nationwide has now refunded her  and 
thats always what Id have believed was the fair and reasonable outcome  then it wouldnt 
be fair to ask them to do anything more.
I also dont believe its unreasonable of Nationwide to expect Ms W to raise a fraud claim. 
Whilst we all get irritated with unnecessary bureaucracy which can seem like a box-ticking 
exercise, fraud had taken place and Ms Ws card details had been compromised. 
Ms W has asked for compensation caused by the initial fraud which she was concerned 
Nationwide didnt identify. We dont generally ask banks to pay compensation just because 
customers have been the victim of fraud. Wed want to see other aspects which suggest this 
could have been prevented by the bank.
In Ms Ws case I wouldnt expect Nationwide to have done this. Although she didnt use this 
card online, that fact alone wouldnt have triggered Nationwide picking up the use of her 
correct card details. Im also aware that a further attempt to use Ms Ws card details 
fraudulently on 22 May for a transaction of £47.92 was declined by Nationwide after a risk 
assessment. Ms W had earlier blocked her card use on the app. This stopped the first 
transaction for the same amount from the same merchant. I suspect the later decline by 
Nationwide may have been triggered by that earlier block. I believe this shows Nationwides 
processes to identify potential fraud were working adequately in this case.
Overall I dont believe it would be fair and reasonable to ask Nationwide to do anything more 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Ws complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman