DRN-3449504
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain because AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) hasnt refunded the full 
premium they paid for an upgrade to cover Mr Ps medical conditions under their travel 
insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs P also say AXA recorded one of the medical conditions disclosed as a different 
medical condition, which affected the premium they were charged. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P held travel insurance as a benefit of their bank account. The travel insurance
was provided by AXA.
On 27 February 2020, Mr and Mrs P paid £359.98 to AXA to cover Mr Ps pre-existing
medical conditions until 26 February 2021.
Unfortunately, a holiday which Mr and Mrs P were subsequently due to go on was cancelled
due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. Mr and Mrs P received a full refund for their
holiday from the travel agent theyd booked with. On 5 May 2020, Mr and Mrs P asked AXA
for a refund of the premium theyd paid for the upgrade to cover Mr Ps medical conditions,
as they said it had been of no use to them. AXA refunded Mr and Mrs P £292.11, which it
said was 65% of the premium theyd paid.
Mr and Mrs P complained to AXA. AXA sent two final response letters to Mr and Mrs P. The
first said the original premium of £359.98 for the upgrade to cover Mr Ps medical conditions
had been calculated correctly. The second said AXA could only offer a full refund of the
premium paid in certain circumstances, but it had refunded £292.11 to Mr and Mrs P as a
gesture of goodwill. In addition, AXA paid Mr and Mrs P £125 in recognition of the poor
service theyd received from one of AXAs agents. 
As Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to the attention of our 
service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened but said she didnt think
AXA had acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree
with our investigators opinion, so the complaint was referred to me. I made my provisional 
decision about Mr and Mrs Ps complaint earlier this month. In it, I said:
Mr and Mrs Ps bank isnt responsible for this complaint  AXA is. AXA is the underwriter
(provider) of this travel insurance policy. This is set out in the terms and conditions of Mr and
Mrs Ps travel insurance document. AXA, as the underwriter of the policy, sets the premium
for covering medical conditions, and is the business entitled to the benefit of that premium. 
So, AXA is the correct business responsible for Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about the premium
refund and the premium charged.
As our investigator has explained, we can only consider a complaint about one financial
business under each individual complaint reference number. So, when making my decision
about this complaint, Im only addressing what AXA is responsible for. AXA didnt sell this
policy to Mr and Mrs P  Mr and Mrs Ps bank did. And, Mr and Mrs P paid the fees for their
account to their bank. Mr and Mrs P have another complaint with our service, under a
different complaint reference number, about their bank. That complaint will be considered
and addressed separately.
Mr and Mrs P feel they have been misled about which business is responsible for this
complaint. Its common, when speaking with a travel insurer, for the travel insurer to refer to
the name under which the policy is branded. I dont think this is misleading. The terms and
conditions of Mr and Mrs Ps travel insurance policy are clear about which business is
responsible for providing their insurance. In any event, even if I were to agree with Mr and
Mrs Ps submissions on this point, I dont think it would be of any relevance to the outcome
of their complaint.
Ive read and considered all the information which Mr and Mrs P have sent to us, but I wont
be addressing every complaint point raised - nor am I obliged to. Instead, Ill only be
addressing what I think are the key points. In addition, Mr and Mrs P have mentioned a
number of complaint points which havent been raised directly with AXA. These include AXA
changing the terms and conditions of their policy and Mr P being asked to discuss Mrs Ps
details during a call with AXA. Customers cant generally add new complaint points to a
complaint thats already with our service. This is because our service has no power to
consider a complaint unless the business involved has first been given the opportunity to
respond to the matter. So, when making my decision, Ill only be addressing Mr and Mrs Ps
complaint about the premium refund and the premium charged. If Mr and Mrs P have any
additional complaint points which they want considered, theyd need to raise these with AXA
in the first instance.
The premium refund
Our investigator identified, and set out, certain rules, regulations and the law. I agree these
are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ps policy with AXA, at page 61 under the heading
General conditions applicable to the whole policy say:
3. Cancellation
 If you have purchased an Upgrade and within 14 days of receipt of the Upgrade
schedule, You find that it does not meet your requirements You may cancel Your
Upgrade by returning the Upgrade schedule to Us. We will refund any premium You
have paid for Upgrades or to obtain cover for Medical Conditions in full provided You
have not travelled.
For cancellations occurring after 14 days of receipt of the Upgrade schedule no
refund of premium will be made.
My findings on this aspect of the complaint are:
Mr and Mrs P first contacted AXA to ask about a premium refund on 5 May 2020 (not
on 14 March 2020 when travel restrictions were announced by a foreign
government). I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances to consider
5 May 2020 as being the date on which the cancellation of the medical upgrade was
requested.
Mr and Mrs P asked to cancel their upgrade outside of the 14-day cooling off period
and so there is no requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for
AXA to offer any refund of the premium to them.Mr and Mrs Ps contract of insurance says that no refund of an upgrade premium will
be available where the upgrade is cancelled more than 14 days after the receipt of
policy upgrade documentation. And, there is no provision within the policy for a
refund to be given to a policyholder if they do not travel within the period of
insurance.
Ive also taken into account whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding
Covid-19. While I accept there were some government-imposed travel restrictions in
place for some of the period during which this policy upgrade was in force, AXA was
bearing the risk of Mr and Mrs P travelling on any number of trips during this time
(even if Mr and Mrs P never actually travelled). AXA was also bearing the risk of Mr
and Mrs P cancelling their planned upcoming trip  as well as any other trips  due to
an event insured under the policy happening during the time the upgrade was in
force.
Its not correct to say that Mr and Mrs P had no cover at all under their policy
upgrade. Thats not how travel insurance works. Mr and Mrs P did have cover  they
just didnt need to make a claim. So, its fair for AXA to retain some premium for the
cover it did provide.
However, I also think its fair to conclude that AXA was no longer providing any cover
under the upgrade after 5 May 2020.
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges
taking into account a wide variety of factors  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
AXA has said the premium paid by Mr and Mrs P for the medical upgrade was split
equally across the term of the upgrade. So, as a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr
and Mrs Ps complaint, Id expect AXA to provide a pro-rata refund of the premium
they paid for the upgrade (i.e. a refund of the premium equivalent to the unused days
of cover from 5 May 2020 until 26 February 2021).
Instead, AXA refunded Mr and Mrs P £292.11. AXA says this was 65% of the 
premium paid for the upgrade  its not, its over 80%.
Ive calculated what I think a pro-rata refund should have approximately amounted to.
But Im satisfied that the refund of £292.11 already provided, together with the
compensation which AXA has paid to Mr and Mrs P, is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances.
The premium charged
Generally, an insurer is entitled to decide what level of risk it is prepared to accept under an
insurance policy upgrade such as this one, and for what price. Its not unreasonable for an
insurer to take material facts such its general claims exposure into account when setting a
price for its policies, even if a particular policyholder hasnt made a claim themselves.
Essentially, its AXAs decision what price it sets for the insurance upgrades it provides. And,
the price of these upgrades can and does change from year to year.
Its also up to an insurer to decide in what manner it carries out its medical screenings, and
what questions are asked. Regardless of whether or not medications are considered
preventative, an insurer will generally want to know about them as they can impact on therisk presented.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer what its insurance should cost. That would mean Id
be, in effect, telling an insurer how it should run its commercial operations and thats not my
role. Instead, my role is to assess the information Ive been provided with to decide if I think
AXA has applied its view of risk consistently and fairly to Mr and Mrs P.
Im satisfied that Mr Ps medical screening was completed in line with how AXA was carrying
out screenings at the time. Im also satisfied that the screening itself was carried out, and the
premium for the upgrade was calculated, correctly and in line with AXAs underwriting
guidelines at the time.
So, Im satisfied that the premium for the medical upgrade wasnt calculated unfairly, and
that AXA would have applied the same criteria to other customers with the same risk profile
as Mr P.
While Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P, I dont intend to direct AXA to do anything
further.
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr P replied with detailed comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read all of Mr Ps replies to my provisional decision. My provisional decision already 
addressed many of the points Mr P has made, and I dont intend to repeat my findings on 
these issues. Instead, Ive set out my additional comments on what I think are the key 
outstanding matters below:
I dont dispute that the UK government introduced travel restrictions in response to 
Covid-19. But Mr P referenced restrictions introduced by the destination he intended 
to visit in his submissions to this service. I therefore mentioned these restrictions 
imposed by a foreign government in my provisional decision. However, regardless of 
whether the restrictions were imposed by the UK, another country, or both, this 
doesnt change my finding that Mr P first contacted AXA to ask for a premium refund 
on 5 May 2020, and not in March 2020. 
AXA was covering the risk of Mr and Mrs P cancelling their upcoming trip (or any 
other trips) for a reason that was insured under the policy. Travel insurance is 
intended to act as a fund of last resort, if a policyholder suffers a financial loss which 
cant be recovered from any other source. A holiday provider isnt always obliged to 
provide a full refund in the event of cancellation, nor is chargeback or Section 75 
claim guaranteed to be successful. 
Mr P has brought his complaint to our service for an impartial and independent 
decision about whether AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. I 
dont think which business Mr P believed he was speaking to when making his 
medical declaration is relevant to whether he was charged the correct premium for 
his medical upgrade. 
I considered all the evidence available to me before making my provisional decision, 
and this included listening to the call recordings which Mr P has referred to. Im 
satisfied that the medical screening was carried out, and the premium for the upgrade was calculated, correctly and in line with AXAs underwriting guidelines at 
the time.
I understand Mr P feels strongly about his complaint and Im sorry hes unhappy, but I wont 
be changing my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman