DRN-2862258
The complaint
Mr Z says Bamboo Limited lent to him irresponsibly and didnt treat him fairly when he was
having financial difficulties.  
What happened
Mr Z took out a loan over 60 months from Bamboo on 31 January 2017. It was for £3000
and the monthly repayments were £118.25. The total repayable was £7095.22. I understand
the loan remains outstanding.
Mr Z said Bamboo didnt complete good enough affordability checks, it never asked about
his outgoings and the figures it quotes for his income are not right. His outgoings were high,
and he had a negative bank balance after being paid.
Our investigator found that Bamboo did not lend irresponsibly to Mr Z. He found the
lenders checks were not proportionate, but he had not seen any evidence that better
checks ought to have led to a different lending decision. He did not think Bamboo had
acted unreasonably or irresponsibly towards Mr Z in any other way.
Mr Z rejected this conclusion. He said Bamboo offering the loan caused him to go into
financial distress as he had to borrow more from other lenders.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I 
reached a different conclusion to the investigator so I issued a provisional decision (an 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision).
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see Bamboo asked for some information from Mr Z before it approved the loan. It
asked about his income and checked this using an income verification tool. It also checked
Mr Zs credit file to understand his current credit commitments and credit history. It made
some assumptions about his living expenses based on national averages. It asked about the
purpose of the loan, which was debt consolidation. From these checks combined Bamboo
concluded Mr Z had monthly disposable income of £1036.85 and so could afford to take on
the loan repayments of £118.25.
However, I dont think Bamboos checks were proportionate. Ill explain why. Mr Z confirmed
by email that he was self-employed, and in a follow up call said he was also in receipt of
benefits too. Given self-employed income typically varies on a monthly basis in a way a
salary doesnt, I dont think it was enough for Bamboo to rely on the checks it did  I think it
needed to verify Mr Zs actual income to understand any variability. Similarly with his
expenditure, I dont think using national averages was reasonable in this case. Mr Z was
applying to borrow over a 60-month term and Bamboo needed to be sure he could
sustainably repay the loan for that extended period of time. As Ive said, Bamboo estimated
that Mr Z would have £1036.85 disposable income each month so it also seems odd (or at
the very least worthy of further checks) that he would want, or need, to take out such
expensive credit with that amount of disposable income available to him each month.
I have looked at Mr Zs bank statements from the four months prior to his loan application. I
am not saying Bamboo had to do this, just that its one way to see what a fuller financial
review would most likely have shown. And there are a number of things that I think would
most likely have concerned Bamboo that suggested Mr Z was having problems managing
his money.
He was clearly reliant on his overdraft of around £2000, not just using it to help with
temporary cash flow at the end of the month. His self-employed income varied and was
consistently significantly less (around half) than the level he declared. Mr Z was also making
cash withdrawals of on average £950 per month prior to his loan application. I dont know
what type of expenditure this was, but I think in the circumstances of this case it was
something Bamboo needed to understand. And Mr Z had a monthly payment to one of the
debt advisory services suggesting he previously had problems repaying debts. Mr Z has
evidenced he had a debt management plan for £34,000 at this time.
Ive thought carefully about whether or not proportionate checks would have revealed that
Mr Z was struggling to manage his money and had such a significant level of historic debt. I
think Bamboo would, on balance, have become aware of such issues and realised there was
high risk Mr Z would be unable to repay his loan sustainably. I certainly cant see that better
checks would have provided the assurance a responsible lender needed to conclude Mr Z
wasnt having problems managing his money. Indeed, there were some indicators he was
struggling financially on the credit report it had  Mr Z had made 16 payments of only the
minimum repayment in the last year and was also using credit cards to withdraw cash.
It follows I currently dont think Bamboo should have lent to Mr Z and he has lost out as a
result of what it did wrong. I dont think Bamboo acted unreasonably or irresponsibly towards
Mr Z in any other way.
I then set out what Bamboo would need to do to put things right if I upheld the complaint. I 
asked the parties to send in any additional comments before 16 June 2021. As they both 
responded prior to the deadline I have been able to progress this decision.
Bamboo disagreed with my conclusion saying, in summary:
Mr Z had an excellent credit record and his debt was in control, as it still is now.
Its not reasonable for it to know about the debt management plan if Mr Z didnt 
disclose it and it wasnt showing on his credit report.
Self-employed applicants often have high disposable income to cover for income 
fluctuations, similarly they use available credit such as overdrafts to manage their 
cashflow. 
Theres no evidence to confirm that had it seen bank statements it would have made 
a different lending decision.
Its not reasonable to classify the lending as irresponsible when there has clearly 
been no detriment caused to Mr Z.
Mr Z was happy with the provisional outcome but asked for the following points to be noted:
The amount repayable was £7095.22 and has now increased to £7277.29.
Bamboo seem to have looked at bank statements for other customers- it should have 
for him.
His income is variable and his outgoings are high as he is a carer  the cash 
withdrawals are due to his debts.His brother is currently making his loan repayments for him to protect his credit file 
but he will have to repay him.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
I have considered Bamboos comments carefully but they do not change my conclusion. Ill 
explain why.  
Im not persuaded Mr Zs credit record could be categorised as excellent  Bamboo could 
see Mr Z had £9,571 of unsecured debt across 11 accounts. He was frequently only 
managing to make minimum payments and his balance to limit ratio was 96%. There had 
been no reduction to the near-limit balances on his credit cards in the previous six months. I 
think combined these facts indicated his finances may be under pressure and so I remain of 
the view that given the term of the loan and the fact it knew Mr Z was self-employed further 
checks should have been carried out.   
Bamboo says that self-employed applicants often have high disposable income to cover for 
income fluctuations and use available credit such as overdrafts to manage their cashflow. I 
accept this may be the case for some applicants, but I havent seen any evidence that 
Bamboo knew if this was the reality here. It hasnt shared any borrower-focused checks it 
completed to understand if this was the case for Mr Z. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I understand Bamboos frustration the debt 
management plan wasnt on the credit report. But had it carried out a fuller financial review 
as I have concluded it should have for the reasons set out above and in my provisional 
decision, its likely it would have seen he was making a payment to one of the debt advisory 
services. This also addresses the lenders point that theres no evidence to confirm that had 
it seen bank statements it would have made a different lending decision. As a responsible 
lender I would assume that it most likely would have made a different decision had it become 
aware of the £34,000 debt management plan Mr Z had at the time. Also, in response to my 
provisional decision Mr Z told us the large cash transactions were because he was repaying 
other debts. So had Bamboo looked into such transactions through better checks it would 
have had further evidence that Mr Z was having problems managing his money. 
And whilst Bamboo argues there has clearly been no detriment and says it has checked 
Mr Zs credit file recently, hes said that his brother is repaying this loan (and he will have to 
repay that informal debt) so I dont think it can safely reach that conclusion.
It follows Im still not persuaded Bamboo should have lent to Mr Z and I think he has lost out 
as a result of what it did wrong.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr Z to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
It seems Bamboo hasnt sold the outstanding debt. But if it has it should buy it back if it is
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Bamboo is not able to buy the debtback, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr Z
made as payments towards the capital. I understand hes paid a little over the original
amount.
If reworking Mr Zs loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Bamboo should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Zs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should
give Mr Z a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Zs complaint and Bamboo Limited must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman