DRN-4050098
The complaint
Mrs W complains about a faulty motorhome she acquired under a hire purchase agreement 
with Black Horse Limited.
Mrs W is represented in this complaint by her husband, Mr W.
What happened
On 4 November 2020 Mrs W entered into a regulated hire purchase agreement with Black 
Horse in relation to a new motorhome. Its cash price was over £70,000. She made an 
advance payment of £2,599, and agreed to make 120 monthly payments of £845.09. The 
total amount payable was therefore £104,009.80.
In December that year, Mrs W complained about a number of faults with the vehicle. It was 
returned to the dealership for these to be repaired. At that time, the vehicles mileage was 
417 miles.
The motorhome was returned to the dealership with more faults in May and December 2021. 
In February 2022 Black Horse asked for an independent inspection of the vehicle, which was 
done in the following month. This inspection verified some, but not all, of the alleged faults. 
Black Horse therefore accepted liability for some of the faults and agreed to repair them, as 
well as agreeing to pay Mrs W £350 for her inconvenience. Being dissatisfied with that 
response, Mr W brough this complaint to our service on Mrs Ws behalf.
Then on 31 May 2022, when the mileage was 4,022 miles, the motorhome broke down in a 
remote area, leaving Mr and Mrs W with no heating or cooking facilities. The AA attended, 
who diagnosed that the battery was unserviceable and needed to be replaced. After this 
incident, Mr and Mrs W lost confidence in the motorhome and stopped driving it. (In October 
2022 they registered it as off the road, but continued to insure it.)
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She was satisfied that the motorhome had been 
defective when it was supplied to Mrs W. She thought that instead of further repairs, which 
were likely to be disproportionate and were not guaranteed to be successful, Mrs W should 
be allowed to reject and return the vehicle with nothing more to pay. She recommended that 
Black Horse refund Mrs W her advance payment, ten percent of her monthly rental 
payments up to the breakdown (to reflect that Mrs W had been using the vehicle until then), 
and one hundred percent of the payments made since then, with interest on these refunds at 
eight percent a year. She also recommended refunds for the purchases of an alarm / tracker 
device and a steering lock which Mr Ws insurance company had required be attached to the 
vehicle as a condition of insuring it, and for the cost of keeping the alarm charged, as it had 
had to be kept plugged into the mains to avoid draining the battery (at a cost of £5.10 a day). 
She endorsed Black Horses offer of £350 for Mrs Ws inconvenience.
Black Horse accepted that opinion. Mr W, on behalf of Mrs W, did not accept it. He said 
Mrs W should have been allowed to exercise the short-term right to reject the vehicle 
because a fault had been discovered within 30 days of delivery. Alternatively, he asked for a 
refund of 90% of the monthly payments made before the breakdown, and for more than 
£350 for his and Mrs Ws inconvenience. He also wanted to be refunded for the insurance 
payments made while this complaint had been with our service. He said that 16% of the 
vehicles mileage had consisted of driving it to the dealership and back to be repaired. He 
said that as the breakdown had happened after Black Horse had made its offer of £350 for 
inconvenience, that amount should be increased to reflect the breakdown.
The investigator did not agree to change the compensation she had recommended. She said 
that as Mrs W had not asked to reject the vehicle within 30 days, the short-term right to 
reject it did not apply. She maintained that a refund of 10% of the payments made prior to 
the breakdown was fair. She said that she could not award compensation for Mr Ws 
inconvenience, because he had not been a party to the finance agreement. She thought that 
£350 was fair compensation for Mrs Ws inconvenience overall. As no agreement could be 
reached, this case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is no longer disputed that the motorhome had faults when it was delivered to Mrs W, and 
so I uphold this complaint. It only remains for me to decide what would be fair compensation.
I have seen no evidence that Mrs W asked to reject the vehicle in time to exercise the short-
term right to reject it. However, I think this issue is moot, since I agree that she should be 
allowed to reject it now.
I agree with Mr W that the compensation for Mrs Ws inconvenience should be increased, 
since Black Horses offer of £350 was made before the motorhome broke down in May 2022. 
I will increase it to £600, but I can only award compensation for Mrs Ws inconvenience and 
not her husbands, since Mr W was not a party to the hire purchase agreement and so he is 
not an eligible complainant under our rules. I can only award compensation for what 
happens to an eligible complainant. In this case, that means Mrs W only.
For the same reason, my starting point is that I cant award Mr or Mrs W compensation for 
the payments Mr W made for the insurance policy, which is in his name, or the cost of the 
alarm / tracker device, or the steering lock, which he paid for. However, I think Mrs W will still 
be affected by those payments, as they mean that her household will have less money, so 
there is still a financial impact on her. So on balance, I think it would be fair for me to treat 
these payments as losses incurred by Mrs W and to require Black Horse to refund those 
payments to her.1
Although the motorhome was registered as off the road in October 2022, it was still a 
requirement of the hire purchase agreement that Mrs W had to continue to insure it (see 
paragraph B3 of the terms and conditions). Black Horse has already agreed in principle to 
refund the insurance premiums, subject to being provided with evidence that these 
payments were made. I have arranged for this evidence to be provided with this decision.
The cost of the alarm / tracker device was £1,353.34 plus VAT, which comes to £1,624 
altogether. I mention that here because Black Horse overlooked the VAT in its last email to 
us, and so I should clarify that I think it should pay for that too.
1 Black Horse did not object to refunding these items, but I have still covered this point in case that 
was just an oversight.I agree with the investigator that the deposit and the monthly rental payments since and 
including May 2022 should be refunded in full.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 states that a refund may be reduced to take into account the 
use a consumer had of a defective product before it was rejected. As Mrs W was using the 
motorhome up to May 2022, and drove it for over 4,000 miles, I think it would be fair to 
require Black Horse to refund ten percent of the payments made from December 2020 to 
April 2022 inclusive. That is in line with what our service would typically award in cases like 
this one. That comes to £1,436.65.
Im pleased to see that Black Horse has agreed to refund the cost of the steering lock and 
the electricity costs too, and to pay interest on all of the refunds at the rate of eight percent a 
year.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Black Horse Limited to:
Cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing left to pay and arrange to remove it 
from Mrs Ws credit file;
Collect the motorhome at no cost to Mrs W;
Refund Mrs Ws advance payment of £2,599,
Refund 10% of Mrs Ws monthly rental payments from December 2020 to April 2022 
inclusive (£1,436.65);
Refund 100% of Mrs Ws monthly payments from May 2022 to date;
Refund to Mrs W £1,624 (being the cost of the alarm / tracker device, including VAT);
Refund to Mrs W £72.39 for the steering lock;
Refund to Mrs W the cost of her electricity at the rate of £5.10 a day from 1 June 
2022 until 6 October 2022 (when the motorhome was temporarily disconnected) and 
from 17 October 2022 (when it was reconnected) until the date the motorhome is 
collected;
Pay Mrs W simple interest on each of the above refunds at the rate of 8% a year 
from the dates the respective payments were made to the date of settlement;
Pay Mrs W £600 for her distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman