DRN-3355625
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc didnt provide financial assistance when he
contacted them for help, and that Sainsburys later defaulted his account for non-payment.
What happened
Mr B had a Sainsburys credit account. In March 2020, Mr B contacted Sainsburys by
telephone and explained that because of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic that was
emerging globally at that time, his household income had reduced such that he was unable
to make the monthly contractual payments required on the account. Mr B therefore asked
Sainsburys for financial assistance, but was told by Sainsburys that the department he
needed to speak with was closed  also as a result of Covid-19  and that Mr B would have
to try to call back another time.
Mr B did try to call back, and he also sent letters and emails to Sainsburys asking them for
help. But Sainsburys didnt respond to Mr Bs attempts to contact them, and Mr Bs account
fell into arrears without any financial assistance from Sainsburys being provided.
Sainsburys later issued a letter advising that if Mr B was unable to clear the arrears by a set
date that his account may be defaulted for non-payment. Mr B wasnt able to clear the
arrears, and so Sainsburys did default the account and reported it as such to the credit
reference agencies. Mr B wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Sainsburys looked at Mr Bs complaint. They acknowledged that they hadnt provided Mr B
with the standard of service they aspire to when hed contacted them about his financial
difficulties, and they apologised to Mr B for this and made an offer to pay £150
compensation to Mr B for the trouble and upset this matter had caused.
Sainsburys also offered to take corrective action to belated apply a payment holiday to his
account, but noted that the terms of that holiday meant that it would have ended a few
months prior, and so asked Mr B if he could make the two monthly payments that would
have been required on the account had the payment holiday been in place and already
ended.
Mr B confirmed that he wasnt able to make those payments, and so Sainsburys felt that Mr
Bs account would have defaulted for non-payment following the payment holiday, and that
leaving the originally applied default on Mr Bs account would be of benefit to him because
the earlier default date meant that the six year period which the default would be reported on
his credit file would end earlier.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with Sainsburys response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But because Mr B wasnt able to resume
the contractual payments required on the account moving forwards, they also felt that
Sainsburys response to Mr Bs complaint, including the offer of compensation and the
maintenance of the original default, already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to
what had taken place, and so they didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 February 2022 as follows:
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published temporary guidance
regarding the provision of three-month payment holidays to eligible consumers who 
were experiencing difficulty meeting the payments due on their credit accounts 
because of financial difficulties brought about by the impact of Covid-19. The FCA 
guidance included that, for these three-month payment holidays only, the reporting of 
these payment holidays to the credit reference agencies would be suspended, so 
that an eligible consumer who benefited for such a payment holiday didnt have their 
credit file impacted by doing so.
The FCA subsequently updated its guidance and confirmed that eligible consumers 
would be able to receive a further three-month payment holiday if financial assistance 
were still required. Finally, the FCA confirmed that when the period where such 
payment holidays were mandated came to an end, consumers who had benefited 
from these payment holidays but who were still in financial difficulty should be 
provided continuing appropriate financial assistance by credit providers, that should 
be tailored to that consumers individual needs.
In this instance its notable that Mr B first asked Sainsburys for a three-month 
payment holiday before the date that the FCA guidance came into effect. However, 
that such guidance would most likely come into effect was widely known at that time 
that Mr B made his request, and so it seems reasonable to me that Sainsburys 
should have placed a temporary hold on Mr Bs account until such time as the 
guidance came into force and Mr B could be assisted in line with his request.
It therefore seems apparent that Mr B should have been granted two consecutive 
three-month payment holidays under the FCA prescribed terms, and that following 
the end of the second payment holiday that Sainsburys should have contacted Mr B 
and discussed his financial situation with him, and provided appropriate continuing 
financial assistance.
But that didnt happen here, and while Sainsburys did offer to implement a 
backdated six-month payment holiday, they did so on the provision that Mr B should 
be able to resume making his full contractual payments at the end of that six-month 
period, and so didnt provide Mr B with the continuing tailored financial assistance, 
following the end of the payment holidays, as prescribed by the FCA.
Instead, when Mr B couldnt resume making full repayments from the time when the 
six-month payment holiday should have ended, Sainsburys confirmed the defaulting 
of his account. And I can understand how this would have been upsetting for Mr B, in 
light of his personal and financial circumstances at that time and given that Im 
satisfied that Mr B was entitled to further financial assistance at that time, which I feel 
would have been of benefit to him, that Sainsburys didnt provide.
However, it must be noted that Sainsburys wouldnt have been expected to have 
provided continuing financial assistance indefinitely, and that following the end of the FCA prescribed payment holidays any financial assistance that Sainsburys were to 
provide would have been reported to Mr Bs credit file and would have negatively 
impacted his credit score.
Mr B has confirmed that he wasnt able to resume full payments at the end of the 
payment holiday period, and so it seems inevitable to me that Mr B would have 
incurred some form of adverse reporting on his credit file.
The ongoing nature of Mr Bs financial difficulties means that I wont be instructing
Sainsburys to remove the default from Mr Bs credit file as he would like here, and 
this is because, if Mr B did receive financial assistance from Sainsburys  which may 
for instance have taken the form of suspended or reduced payments  then it would 
most likely have been expected that Sainsburys would have recorded Mr Bs 
account as falling into arrears because of these reduced payments and reported to 
the credit reference agencies as such.
Had Sainsburys provided continuing financial assistance, and had Mr Bs account 
fallen into significant arrears, as seems likely may have been the case here, then it 
would have been expected that Sainsburys would have taken the action necessary 
to ensure that Mr B didnt continue to fall further and further into arrears  and that 
expected action would have been the defaulting of Mr Bs account.
Ultimately, while the FCA prescribed payment holidays provided a period of relief for
consumers in financial difficulty such as Mr B, it would always have been the case 
that if Mr B couldnt resume his full contractual payments, and the account continued 
to fall into arrears, that it would have been eventually expected of Sainsburys that 
they would have defaulted the account.
Given that it seems likely, from the information available to me, including Mr Bs own
descriptions of his financial position, that Mr B wouldnt have been able to resume the 
full contractual repayments due on the account, so that I feel that it is most probable 
that Mr Bs account would have defaulted for non-payment at some point, it seems 
that the best available outcome here for Mr B is that the default be applied to his 
account at the earliest possible opportunity, so that it consequently falls off his credit 
file, after six years, at the earliest possible opportunity.
And it must be noted that if I were to instruct Sainsburys to remove the default from 
Mr B s account, and Mr B were then unable to meet the payments required on the 
account so that the default were applied again, this time at a later date, then that 
default would adversely affect Mr Bs credit file for longer than the default presently in 
place.
This being said, if Mr B is able to confirm that he would be able to meet the full 
contractual repayments required on the account with immediate effect, I may be 
willing to reconsider my position on this matter, given the financial assistance Mr B 
should have received from Sainsburys following the end of the FCA payment holiday 
period, but didnt.
Should it be the case that Mr B can resume full payments towards the account, then 
my instruction may include that Sainsburys must take back Mr Bs account from the 
third-party to whom it was sold. While I appreciate that Mr B would like the account to 
remain with the third-party, but the adverse credit file reporting to be removed, I 
would only consider instructing the removal of the adverse credit-file reporting on the 
condition that Sainsburys take back the account and administer it on the original 
contractual basis moving forwards.Finally, I dont feel that the £150 compensation that Sainsburys have offered to Mr B 
takes sufficient account of the ongoing failure of Sainsburys to provide either the 
FCA payment holidays or the subsequently prescribed financial assistance to Mr B 
that he was entitled to, and Im satisfied that this has had a significant impact and 
caused Mr B considerable distress and inconvenience at a difficult and inopportune 
time.
As such, my provisional decision here is that I will be upholding this complaint in Mr 
Bs favour on this limited basis and instructing Sainsburys to increase the amount of
compensation payable to Mr B by £250, to a total of £400. Sainsburys may not 
forward this payment amount to the third-party to whom the debt was sold to reduce 
the arrears balance on the account unless Mr B gives his permission for them to do 
so.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr B and Sainsburys the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision.
Sainsburys confirmed that they agreed with the spirit of my provisional decision, but 
questioned whether the further compensation payment Id provisionally instructed them to 
pay to Mr B was merited here, as they felt that theyd taken reasonable steps to ensure that 
Mr B wasnt unnecessarily or unreasonably affected by what took place.
I can appreciate Sainsburys position here, to a degree. But I continue to feel that Mr B did 
incur an amount of unnecessary distress and inconvenience here, both as a result of his 
being unable to contact Sainsburys over a prolonged period of time, including because of 
the provision of an incorrect email address by Sainsburys to Mr B  which Sainsburys have 
themselves acknowledged and for which they have paid Mr B £150 compensation  as well 
as in regard to the wider point that Mr B wasnt set up on the FCA prescribed payment 
holidays when he should have been.
And, while I can appreciate that Sainsburys were themselves having to deal with a 
challenging working environment at that time which can help explain why Mr B wasnt 
provided with these payment holidays in good order, I feel that the fact that Mr B had to 
chase Sainsburys for the payment holidays for which he should have been eligible during a 
period of heightened financial and personal stress, and as such wasnt afforded the relief 
that having these payment holidays in place would have provided, does warrant the payment 
of further compensation beyond the £150 already paid by Sainsburys in this instance. 
For his part, Mr B responded to my provisional decision and confirmed that his financial 
circumstances havent recovered such that he would be able to resume the contractual 
payments required by the account. As such, I wont be changing my provisional decision so 
as to instruct Sainsburys to amend Mr Bs credit file reporting, as Im satisfied that Mr Bs 
account would have been reasonably defaulted by Sainsburys on the basis of outstanding 
arrears at some stage  as explained in my provisional decision. This also means that Mr B 
should continue to liaise with the third-party company with whom the account balance now 
resides moving forwards.
All of which means that my final decision here will be that I am upholding this complaint in  
Mr Bs favour on the limited basis as outlined in my provisional decision, and I can confirm 
that I do uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.Putting things right
Sainsburys must make a further payment of £250 to Mr B to compensate him for the upset 
and inconvenience this matter has caused, taking the total amount of compensation payable 
to £400. 
Sainsburys may not forward this £250 payment amount to the third-party company to whom 
the debt was sold so as to reduce the arrears balance on the account unless Mr B gives his 
permission for them to do so.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Sainsburys Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman