DRN-3060186
The complaint
Ms W complains that Nationwide Building Society rejected her claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a faulty exercise bike and delayed matters so that 
she could not seek alternative redress.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Because Ms W used an intermediary I will call P to handle her transaction the required 
debtor-creditor-supplier link was broken meaning that S 75 could not be used to pursue her 
claim. I gather Ms W recognises this and is concerned that this was not made clear to her 
sooner.
Her purchase was made on 24 May 2020 and she contacted Nationwide on 19 October. It 
rejected her claim on 26 November and issued a final response letter on 14 January 2021. If 
Ms W was to make a claim to P I believe she had 180 days from the date of payment which 
would have expired sometime in mid November. I dont consider it unreasonable for 
Nationwide to have been allowed a month or so to investigate the claim. It says that during 
that time with the limitations caused by the pandemic it was operating to a six to eight week 
deadline. 
Nationwide does give information on its website on card disputes although it doesnt detail 
the debtor-creditor-supplier rules. These can be complex and much will depend on the facts 
of the particular claim. Therefore, I dont consider Nationwide has done anything wrong in its 
handling of this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
