DRN-2736946
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly refused to pay her claims under
her pet policy.
  
What happened
Miss B took out her life time policy with Allianz to start on 19 January 2020 having previously
been insured elsewhere. Her dog was born a year earlier in February 2019.
Miss Bs dog became ill on 10 February 2020. Initially it was thought she suffered from
breathing issues and then Brachycephalic Obstructive Airway Syndrome (BOAS) and a
hiatal hernia. Two claims were submitted by Miss Bs vets the first which I will call CH and
the second I will call W. One on 27 February 2020 for breathing difficulty in the sum of
£433.43 and the second on 3 March 2020 for BOAS/hiatal hernia in the sum of £1,433.08.
As per normal Allianz requested the vet history to assess both these claims. Ultimately from
this vet history of CH, Allianz said Miss Bs dog had been suffering BOAS since birth. In line
with its underwriting guide Allianz imposed seven retrospective exclusions on Miss Bs policy
to include encompassing the BOAS condition. 
These are as follows:
claims from regurgitation/retching,
 claims from the respiratory system disorders
BOAS
claims from or connected to gastro-intestinal disorders
 claims resulting from or connected to foreign bodies in the GI tract
claims from skin disorders
 claims from a rectal prolapse.
And it ultimately refused to pay Miss Bs claims.
Miss B complained and said she organised for her dog to be operated on for BOAS. When
her dog was under the anaesthetic the vet said she didnt have BOAS, so the operation
didnt go ahead. This operation was undertaken by another vet who I shall call K2. But
Allianz wouldnt change its stance. It relied on the view of its external consultant vet who I 
shall call Mr J.
So, Miss B brought her complaint to us. The investigator thought it should be upheld. Allianz
disagreed so Miss Bs complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 July 2021. And I said the following:
This is an extraordinarily complicated case given that Miss B has four different vet 
practices involved, each with their own vet history. Plus, the initial internal vet of 
Allianz is now not available to it in order explain her view that she agreed Miss Bs 
dog didnt have BOAS. I shall call her Ms S. Its also difficult from Allianz file to see 
what exactly Mr J saw from the vet histories as the attachments to the emails werent 
documented and his earlier assessment in June 2020 isnt disclosed. 
So, I think providing a chronology of the vet history would be useful.
Miss B first brought her dog to a vet practice which I shall call K in April 2019 where 
she had suffered a rectal prolapse. So, I consider it appropriate Allianz has now 
excluded anything to do with a rectal prolapse. However, I would expect this to be 
reviewable under the underwriting guidelines. This is because the history says the 
dog was constipated by a change in food or starting to feed raw too early. There is 
nothing in the vet history since, that there is any ongoing rectal prolapse problem.
On 13 May 2019 in a follow up appointment for the rectal prolapse, the vet notes 
state that in the waiting room Miss B mentioned her dog occasionally coughs and 
falls over. The advice was to look into elongated soft palate/stenotic nares and 
BOAS surgery. I consider there was no evidence or finding by a vet here that her dog 
had BOAS other than advice was given due to her dogs breed traits. Certainly, this 
vet note doesnt indicate any examination of Miss Bs dog for BOAS and the history 
of this vet doesnt indicate any further ongoing problems with BOAS.
In October 2019, the vet notes indicate a skin reaction in the dogs armpits. Miss B 
was advised to start giving treatment for fleas and mites. Since this doesnt appear 
ongoing, I would assume the exclusion for skin disorders on Miss Bs policy is also 
reviewable.
On 12 November 2019, Miss Bs dog unfortunately ate some sugar free chewing gum 
which necessitated treatment to prevent xylitol toxicity. And she was made to vomit 
and kept in overnight. She suffered further vomiting on 15 November 2019. Again, 
this is simply an opportunistic ingestion of some food the dog shouldnt have eaten 
mainly because it contained xylitol which is toxic to dogs. Food isnt a foreign body 
but nonetheless Allianz imposed numerous exclusions consequently namely the 
following:
claims from regurgitation/retching,
claims from or connected to gastro-intestinal disorders
claims resulting from or connected to foreign bodies in the GI tract
I consider this is excessive for a puppy this young, who simply ate some chewing 
gum. I consider these exclusions should be reconsidered with a view to removing 
them save for possibly an exclusion in relation to scavenging food only.
Miss B then transfers to CH vets. The vet history starts from 10 February 2020, so 
after this policy started. Miss B brought her dog to the vet because she was ill and its 
this illness which forms the claims now disputed in this complaint. She was struggling 
to breath and regurgitated twice the day before. Here the vet notes indicate that this 
vet was told by Miss B that her dog always had significant brachycephalic breathing 
issues since birth. There are further issues with this below, which indicates this vet 
note might not be accurate. Following x-rays this vet wanted to refer Miss Bs dog to 
referral vets but first they gave some medication. The next visit was 24 February 
2020, where it was noted Miss Bs dog was marked BOAS and the referral was 
advised for BOAS surgery. However, they also thought a hiatal hernia was a 
possibility.
So, Miss Bs dog was then referred to more specialist vets who I shall call W. They 
first saw Miss Bs dog on 25 February 2020. The vet history notes the regurgitation started about a month ago on10 February, she had red coloured foam and was 
breathing very fast. They indicated her BOAS score was 2-3 mainly concentrated in 
the palatine/pharyngeal area +/- hiatal hernia  oesophagitis +/- largeal collapse. 
The plan was to admit for reassessment with ST team and consider a flou 
swallowing study to assess lower oesophagus. So, both
CH and W vets clearly indicate they think Miss Bs dog has BOAS, irrespective of the 
hiatal hernia issue.
The referral report from W back to CH vets is dated 3 March 2020. It confirmed Miss 
Bs dog was referred for investigation into regurgitation which started in the last 
month and happened after every meal. Stertor (noisy breathing) has been present 
since birth, aspiration pneumonia (caused by the tummy contents being inhaled) had 
been diagnosed and treated at CH three weeks previously. The fluoroscopy identified 
a sliding hiatal hernia. Surgical repair of the hiatal hernia should be considered if 
medical management fails.
Then Miss B went to another vet which I shall call K2. I believe only because the 
quote for surgery from W was too high for Miss B. She said it was in the region of 
£6,000. The vet history with this vet is more difficult to decipher as there is a lack of 
dates to some of the entries. However, they confirm Miss Bs dog had been seen at 
W and it confirms K2 quoted for BOAS surgery at £900. Under sedation K2 found the 
dog had no long soft palate and that her tonsils were of a normal size. So, K2 didnt 
recommend that the BOAS surgery was continued. It seemed K2 would prefer W to 
do the hiatal hernia surgery and full assessment for BOAS and there was discussion 
of costs again by W in the region of £5,000 to £6,000. CH made one claim for 
£433.43 for treatment from 10 February 2020 to 24 February 2020 on 27 February 
2020. W vets made the second one (CH referred Miss Bs dog to W) for £1,433.08 on 
3 March 2020. Allianz refused to pay these claims and imposed the exclusions
referred to above. Those exclusions were imposed on 12 April 2020 and were 
retrospective so effective from the start date of the policy.
In May 2020, Miss B asked W to help her given Allianz had refused her claims. She 
said Allianz decided her dog was showing signs of BOAS before her policy started 
and that it caused the hiatal hernia. Miss B wanted W to write a statement confirming 
what CH had said, namely there is no way of saying for certain if the BOAS caused 
the hiatal hernia. She also explained her consultation with K2. W responded saying 
he hadnt communicated with K2 and wasnt aware of the last clinical information. He 
confirmed Miss Bs dog did have clinical signs of BOAS on 3 March 2020 but that a 
complete airway assessment wasnt performed at the time. I consider this 
requirement for a complete airway assessment to confirm BOAS to be very 
significant. He confirmed the dog was diagnosed with hiatal hernia treated medically 
before any decision on surgery to deal with it and BOAS. He confirmed he couldnt 
comment on K2s opinion as that was for K2 to do.
In Allianz file CH confirmed to Allianz on 14 April 2020 that Miss Bs dog was treated 
for pneumonia and not obstructed airways. They also confirmed it was a new 
condition that wasnt suffered before and it started on 10 February 2020. CH also 
said they didnt know why BOAS was on the claim form. So regardless of the fact that 
the first vet noted on CHs vet history said Miss B said her dog had always suffered 
breathing issues from birth, it seems to me that CH werent relying on this in relation 
to its claim for the treatment of aspiration pneumonia.
It seems to me that that is more likely a consequence of the confirmed hiatal hernia 
because on 27 April 2020 CH wrote to Allianz saying that its treating vet said it would 
be impossible to say the hernia was caused by BOAS.On 19 June 2020 Allianz underwriting department said it had decided to retain all 
exclusions for reasons commented on the pol which I dont have. It was also 
concerned with sharing its consultant vets view with Miss B.
However, Allianz internal vet who I have called Miss S said on 21 July 2020 said she 
hadnt seen K2s vet history. She explained her initial thoughts were BOAS is PR in 
this dog  aspiration pneumonia is a recognised con. The regurgitation may also be 
secondary to a hiatal hernia sequence of regurgitation in BOAS dogs. W are treating 
aspiration pneumonia, caused by regurgitation caused by BOAS which is PR.
Miss S further elaborates her thought on 24 July 2020 as follows:
Hi ..
Apologies for the length of this, but it is complicatedyou can fast forward to 
the conclusion and further info needed bit.
Re [name of dog]
DOB 11/2/2019 previously insured with [xxx]
SOC 19/1/2020
This was assessed as hiatal hernia likely secondary to BOAS.
The presenting signs of coughing, regurgitation, difficulty breathing, vomiting 
can be attributed to BOAS or hiatal hernia.
Aspiration pneumonia is a result of food ending up in the lungs- usually due to
vomiting or regurgitation.
BOAS is a particular set of disorders linked to conformation of brachycephalic
animals. They have breathing difficulties, gastric reflux, regurgitation and a 
common consequence is aspiration pneumonia. Syncope (falling over) can 
also be attributed to BOAS.
Hiatal hernia is where part of the stomach is either pushed into the chest (due 
to high intraabdominal pressure eg due to chronic vomiting or trauma) or 
sucked in (due to low intrathoracic pressure- usually due to BOAS) Main 
symptoms are regurgitation and weight loss.
[W] referrals have diagnosed hiatal hernia and BOAS- as they suggest that 
the hiatal hernia would improve after BOAS surgery, they are linking the two.
[Name of dog] then went to K2, who say that [name of dog] does not have 
BOAS, but are concerned about the lungs. There is an inconsistency re which 
lung is affected. Prior to the policy, it does look like [name of dog] had BOAS 
respiratory symptoms. The note in the Ks history 13/5/19 suggest that [name 
of dog] would likely need surgery for BOAS. The owner mentioned coughing 
and falling over (syncope). CH vets (10/2/20) say that [name of dog] has had 
BOAS breathing issues since birth. So, if the hiatal hernia is secondary to 
BOAS, it is PR.
If it turns out that [name of dog] does not have BOAS, then the CH veterinary 
history says that the regurgitation started 9/2/20. This fits with the Ws history 
(3/3/20) where the notes say the regurgitation started 1 month ago (3/2/20= 
fifteenth day of cover). [Name of dog]s policy also has an exclusion for 
regurgitating/retching following Vomiting and retching on the 15/11/19. This 
was 2 days after eating chewing gum and vomiting being induced. This may 
be connected to the onset of hiatal hernia- but we have no record of this 
vomiting persisting.
In conclusion- if [name of dog] has BOAS, then this is PR. If [name of dog] 
doesnt have BOAS, I would be reluctant to reject under the exclusion. So, we 
need the vets to agree whether [name of dog] has BOAS or not, and if not, 
what are they attributing her breathing difficulties (since birth) to?Extra information: I think you would need to speak to x at W regarding this 
hopefully the vets have now reached a consensus.
Thanks xxx
On 28 July 2020 Allianz asked K2 to confirm the hernia wasnt connected to BOAS 
and what the respiratory BOAS signs were likely a result of if not BOAS. K2 
responded by sending its vet history which wasnt what Allianz had requested.
On 1 September CH vets said it was Miss B who mentioned breathing issues since 
birth and that theres no mention in the history of falling over and collapse. However, 
its for Miss B to confirm if this was correct. Given everything that has gone in with 
case, Im not persuaded this is true.
On 23 September 2020 Miss S said the following:
Hi
1. [Name of dog] doesnt have BOAS, but she does have a hiatal hernia 
(HR8). Hopefully that will deal with the client frustration regarding the link 
to BOAS that we have made with this claim.
2. Symptoms of hiatal hernia were present before the policy- the owner 
has said [name of dog] always had breathing problems (see CH history), 
in K history there are notes re [name of dog] coughing and falling over 
and on the 15/11/19, [name of dog] was vomiting and retching pink foam. 
When [name of dog] was presented to W, there was at least a month of 
regurgitation. So the breathing difficulties prior to the policy were not due 
to BOAS as the vets suspected, but they were due to hiatal hernia as this 
presents with vomiting, regurgitation, excess salivation, bloody or pink 
tinged vomit and breathing difficulties.
So I think it is fair to reject hiatal hernia on the basis that the clinical signs 
were there prior to the policy, but the vets put them down to BOAS, which 
we are OK to say [name of dog] doesnt have.
We should recode the claim 12220338 as hiatal hernia (HR8)- could you 
check if Ive managed to do this?
Also, please ask underwriting to remove the RKE exclusion
We will maintain rejection of this claim.
Thanks
However, from the history, the vomiting Miss S was referring to was two days after 
the chewing gum incident where Miss Bs dog was made to vomit. So, Im not 
convinced Miss S was correct on her assumptions here that it would be due to the 
hernia here. It seems she has made a mistake.
Regardless of this opinion, Allianz decided to instruct an external consultant vet who I 
have called Mr J. He explained to Allianz by email on 14 December 2020 that he 
couldnt see the evidence on which Miss S was relying, so he couldnt come to a 
view. It appears that was simply K2s vet history.
Then on 16 December 2020, he explains that he reviewed everything. He was at a 
loss how Miss S came to her view that the dog didnt have BOAS. Although K2 said 
there was no need for surgery that didnt change the BOAS diagnosis. The palate is 
not the only component. He seemed unaware of information from W. He believed 
until this dog is properly assessed for BOAS from a vet without a vested interest in 
promoting the breeding of bulldogs who would give an unbiased view of nasal 
stenosis, the degree of respiratory effort, the clarity of the trachea and a detail of the 
larynx this dog has abundant evidence of BOAS. So, the exclusion should stand. In the email trail it appears Mr J was asked to look at this case in June 2020, but Allianz 
has not disclosed what he said then.
On the basis of what Allianz has disclosed, I dont consider Mr J has provided 
enough clarity of his reasoning, he didnt list what evidence he had seen, and it 
seems to me he performed no coherent analysis of any of the vet history to warrant 
his conclusions, other than he doesnt approve of K2.
Therefore, Im not satisfied Mr J has comprehensively detailed the reasons for his 
opinion other than everyone it seems expects the breed type of Miss Bs dog to 
always have BOAS. In that case I consider its unfair for Miss B to have been offered 
this policy on the breed type of her dog without it being coherently underwritten 
beforehand given its a life time policy bought when her dog was a mere 11 months 
old.
No one other than K2 has coherently examined this dog for BOAS, which I 
understand needs to be done under sedation at least. When K2 did that, there was 
no elongated palate and the tonsils were of normal size, so no operation for BOAS 
took place. Mr J expressed a very negative view of K2 which may or may not be 
justified, but I think its overly coloured his view on the matter here. On the basis of 
K2s notes showing these two physical signs clearly indicating no such BOAS 
characteristics for those elements, it cannot be the case as Mr J has expressed that 
this dog definitely has BOAS as we dont know the situation with the other physical 
characteristics of BOAS (as identified by Mr J) as no vet other than K2 has
examined them, Consequently, Im not persuaded by Mr Js conclusions.
Its very clear to me that Miss S has come to the same conclusions as myself based 
on full analysis of the evidence but for the fact shes mixed up vomiting issues due to 
the chewing gum incident, which I dont consider to be relevant to the hernia issue or 
indeed any exclusion subsequently imposed retrospectively because there is no 
evidence linking the two. Further the exclusion in relation to that should be merely 
dealing with scavenging rather than anything else and most certainly it shouldnt 
encompass the three such exclusions imposed. Also, Im not attaching the same 
level of importance to the falling over issue as a puppy which was not examined by 
any vet since it was all discussed in a waiting room. That vet then advised checking 
her dog out for BOAS (obviously given its breed type) but it cant be reasonable to 
hold this as an indication of BOAS either. And since theres no indication from the 
numerous vet histories that this falling over issue continued to be a problem,
therefore, in conclusion, I place no weight on it at all.
So due to the lack of evidence that this dog actually has BOAS other than it appears 
an over reliance on the fact she must have it, given her breed type, I dont consider 
Miss Bs claims should be rejected for BOAS as Allianz internal vet Miss S also 
concluded in the main. Theres no evidence before me that the hernia issue was 
caused by BOAS or indeed that it was pre-existing. To date, according to Miss B, her 
dog has reacted well to her medication for the hiatal hernia administered by CH and 
hasnt had any further problems.
Therefore, I consider Allianz should reconsider all seven exclusions from Miss Bs 
policy, seeking to remove the following:
claims from regurgitation/retching,
claims from the respiratory system disorders
 BOAS
claims from or connected to gastro-intestinal disorders claims resulting from or connected to foreign bodies in the GI tract
since I consider the evidence shows that BOAS and its related conditions are simply 
not confirmed enough by the examination of the characteristics of BOAS (as detailed 
by Mr J) given the findings by K2 when they operated on Miss Bs dog. The evidence 
shows this dog presented with hiatal hernia symptoms from 10 February 2020, 21 
days after the policy started on 19 January 2020 which means the costs of 
investigating it is covered by the policy.
It should review the rectal prolapse exclusion also since her dog hasnt suffered any 
further issues with the rectal prolapse and it should review the skin issues exclusion 
since there is no evidence of any ongoing skin issues. This is because this is a 
lifetime policy bought when this puppy was a mere 11 months old and keeping such 
exclusions without the possibility of any review would be unreasonable, if its the 
case no further issues have occurred.
It should seek to pay both claims as detailed above from CH and W with interest if 
Miss B has paid them. Allianz hasnt received any claim in relation to the vet costs of 
K2, but should Miss B wish to claim for them, I would expect Allianz to consider them 
in line with what I have said above.
I appreciate and understand Allianz will be most disappointed with my intended 
decision here, but in my view (other than everyone deciding given the breed type of 
Miss Bs dog that it simply consequently has BOAS since birth) there is very little 
concrete evidence of BOAS as ably detailed by its own vet Miss S (but for her 
mistake over the vomiting issue). Given Miss B has bought a lifetime policy I consider 
it fair and reasonable that she can avail of that cover, without the plethora of 
exclusions too. If Miss B was to try and insure her dog elsewhere given this extensive 
and wrongly concluded history, her dog would be virtually uninsurable and thats 
simply not right.
As Miss B points out, all this happened throughout the early part of the Covid 
pandemic which was incredibly stressful in any event, and Allianz actions further 
imposed more trouble and upset. Therefore, I consider Allianz should also pay Miss 
B £200 compensation.
Allianz responded explaining what information Mr J had seen but didnt provide anything new 
from him. It also was able to get Miss S to comment who identified as she did originally, that 
the only indication of BOAS before the policy began was in Ks vet history of 13 May 2019 
when Miss B mentioned in the waiting room that her dog coughed and fell over. Allianz failed 
to indicate whether it agreed or not with the provisional decision.
Miss B responded that she accepted the provisional decision and that she had submitted the 
claims from K2 vets to Allianz, as she was advised to then by the Allianz advisor when they 
were considering removing the BOAS exclusion. Allianz subsequently changed its mind 
about that.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, Im upholding this complaint.Allianz hasnt provided any further evidence to challenge the conclusions that I reached in 
my provisional decision. It remains in my view that the actual evidence of any real BOAS is 
lacking both before the policy began and throughout the time period that the dog suffering 
from a hiatal hernia. 
We have definitive evidence that Miss Bs dog whilst under anaesthetic had no elongated 
palate and her tonsils were of normal size, which indicated no need for BOAS correction 
surgery. And we have no other objective evidence that any of the indicators beyond stertor 
are present either.
I also find theres no evidence that Miss Bs dog was suffering any symptoms of a hiatal 
hernia before the policy began, rather the symptoms started around 21 days after the policy 
started. So as no further evidence has been produced to indicate my views on this should be 
challenged, it remains my view Miss Bs claims in relation to this should be paid.
Therefore, I see no reason to depart from my reasoning and outcome in my provisional 
decision. The exclusions should be removed and/or amended as I fully detailed in my 
provisional decision. Its unreasonable in my view with a life-time policy, to have such a 
plethora of exclusions imposed without review. More so when the policy began before the 
dog was even a year old. And as I explained in my provisional decision some of those 
exclusions arent appropriately evidenced coherently either. 
All of Miss Bs claims to include those of K2 should be reviewed with the intention of paying 
them subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy as to annual policy limits 
and excess payments. Interest should be added as indicated below.
 
And given the trouble and upset Allianz has caused Miss B, it should pay her £200 
compensation.
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Allianz Insurance Plc trading as Petplan to do the following:
review all the exclusions with a view to removing them and amending them as 
indicated above.
pay Miss Bs claims including those of K2 (subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy) adding interest of 8% simple per year if Miss B has paid 
them from the date Miss B paid to the date of its refund. If income tax is to be 
deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to Miss B 
or HMRC purposes.
pay Miss B £200 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused her.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman