DRN-3225107
The complaint
Mr B complained that he received a poor service and his claim was unreasonably delayed 
under his home insurance policy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA).   
What happened
Mr B claimed on his policy following extensive damage to his property, which was caused by 
a leaking pipe around the 31 August 2019.
RSA validated the claim and took responsibility for the rectification works. Mr B had several 
issues which he escalated to our service. Compensation for these issues was agreed 
between RSA and Mr B for the period up to 7 May 2020. 
Mr B has raised a subsequent complaint in relation to his claim that covers the period from 7 
May 2020 to 24 November 2020. Mr B asked for a new complaint to be raised which 
considered all the other faults and hold ups we had after [7 May 2020].
Mr B said he was unhappy with the continued delays on his claim and concerned with the 
ongoing rental costs of his alternative accommodation.
RSA said for the period after 7 May 2020 I have been unable to identify any excessive or 
avoidable delays on your claim during this time and I am therefore unable to uphold your 
complaint on that basis. [We] also confirmed that the rental costs in respect of your alternative 
accommodation will continue to be met until you have returned home.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought there was evidence of 
avoidable delays and recommended RSA pay £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused to Mr B. RSA disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA said [It] cant agree that 2 full months of excessive or avoidable delays in the claim
progressing has been incurred during this period and on that basis feel [the investigators] 
recommendation of £300 compensation is excessive. I have reviewed the timeline in detail 
from 7 May to 24 November 2020 to understand if there have been any avoidable delays 
caused by RSA.
Im not going to provide a commentary on every aspect of work that was done during this 
period, but I will summarise what I think are the important points.
I can see there were times during the claim where the work was understandably slow. Work 
was carried out on Mr Bs property during the Covid-19 pandemic when there were strict 
rules around social distancing. This restricted the number of trades allowed on site at any 
one point. It meant two-man jobs could only be carried out by one person. These working 
restrictions were essential for the safety of those on site and was outside of the control of 
RSA, so I dont think its fair to hold them accountable for these delays.
Likewise, there were supply issues early in this period for certain plaster-based materials. 
This is a problem that was well publicised in the building trade at the time, so whilst it 
wouldve been frustrating for Mr B, I dont think this its fair to hold RSA to account for this.
However, I can see there were other delays. In mid-July, RSA told Mr B that his works would 
be completed by mid-September. Mr B finally moved back into his property in mid-October. 
So, I think it is reasonably clear that Mr B moved back into his property around a month later 
than the expectations that were set by RSA back in July. Mr Bs alternative accommodation 
needed to be extended.
I have observed numerous problems which led to this delay. For example, the mix-up when 
the kitchen units were ordered which led to no base units arriving, scheduling issues with the 
flooring, a significant level of snagging due to poor workmanship and continuity issues in 
handling the claim due to resource issues. I think these delays were caused by RSA and its 
contractors and I think these delays were avoidable. So, I uphold this complaint.
Mr B felt that despite Covid-19, he shouldve been able to move into his own home sooner 
and was disappointed with the level of service he received. I have considered what a fair 
level of compensation is for the delay that Mr B experienced. I think in the circumstances, 
this would have been especially frustrating for Mr B, given hed been out of his home for so 
long and had a previous complaint with RSA. I think living away from your own home would 
be quite distressing. Mr B was inconvenienced significantly during this time, chasing up RSA 
for various progress updates, such as extending his alternative accommodation or dealing 
with snagging or scheduling issues. Therefore, I am awarding £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this delay has caused to Mr B.
Finally, as RSA paid all the costs for alternative accommodation, I havent felt the need to 
consider this point any further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr B:
£300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the delay has caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman