DRN-3814069
The complaint
Miss B complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund money she lost after she fell victim to 
an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties. So I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, I understand them to be as follows.
On 23 April 2022, Miss B was tricked into making a Faster Payment from her Metro account. 
She did so in the belief that she was paying a deposit towards leasing a vehicle, from a 
company on a social media platform, that had been recommended to her by a friend. But 
unknown to her at the time, she was dealing with fraudsters and had sent her payment to an 
account they controlled. 
Miss B has said shes a single mother and, at the time of the scam, she had a new-born 
baby and another child under thirteen months old. Shes told us that, a few months before 
the scam, she was diagnosed with borderline personality disorder and is prescribed 
medication for this. 
Miss B has said she was (and still is) in financial difficulties and has not had a car for some 
time. Shes told us due to her having a bad credit rating, shes not been able to lease a car 
before and the last car she had was sold by an ex-partner. Shes explained that as well as 
the challenges with her health and bringing up two small children, her mother also suffers 
with a heart condition, which means she sometimes has to get to her mother at short notice. 
Shes told us that having a car meant everything to her, and she was excited when the lease 
company was recommended to her, as it said it catered for people like her, who had a poor 
credit rating. Miss B has explained that her life without a car is difficult, as her medical 
condition makes her worry about leaving the house, but the car would have given her a safe 
bubble to do so without having panic attacks. Alongside this, it would mean she is able to 
get to her mother quickly when needed.
Miss B has explained that she is not in a privileged position, where she can just go and buy 
or lease a car, it was hard for her to save the deposit. At the time, shes said she did 
research the firm on Companies House and asked them if this was a scam outright, but 
shes said she just believed it was genuine. Miss B has said, she told Metro about her 
circumstances when she visited one of its branches to report the scam and I have no reason 
to doubt this.
Miss B began to suspect something wasnt right, when shortly after making the payment she 
was blocked from the companys social media platform, and she was unable to contact them 
anymore. 
She raised the matter with Metro. Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code requires 
firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. 
Metro looked into Miss Bs complaint and issued its final response, not upholding it. In 
summary it said Miss B had not carried out enough checks and that it had provided an 
effective warning. Overall Metro did not consider itself liable to refund Miss B the money she 
had lost. It added that it contacted the receiving bank (the bank to which the money was 
sent) to try and recover the money, but unfortunately hadnt been able to recover any of the 
money that had been lost. 
Unhappy with Metros response, Miss B then brought her complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary he thought Miss Bs circumstances at the time, meant she should be considered 
as a vulnerable customer under the CRM code. So he thought Metro should refund Miss B 
the money she lost, along with interest.
Metro disagreed with our investigators view. In summary it did not consider Miss Bs 
vulnerability to be applicable to the scam.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payments as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the transactions.
 
This was an authorised payment even though Miss B was the victim of a scam. Miss B 
made the payments herself. So, although Miss B did not intend the money to go to a 
fraudster, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of 
her account, Miss B is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
Of particular relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), to 
which Metro is a signatory. 
The CRM Code requires firms to assess whether a customer was vulnerable to the APP 
scam they fell victim to at the time it occurred. The relevant sections state:
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP 
scam, against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered.
 
This should be assessed on a case-by-case basis. 
In these circumstances, the Customer should be reimbursed notwithstanding the 
provisions in R2(1), and whether or not the Firm had previously identified the 
Customer as vulnerable. [] 
Factors to consider include: 
(a) All Customers can be vulnerable to APP scams and vulnerability is dynamic. The 
reasons for dynamics of vulnerability may include: the personal circumstances of 
the Customer; the timing and nature of the APP scam itself; the capacity the 
Customer had to protect themselves; and the impact of the APP scam on that 
Customer
 
(b) A Customers personal circumstances which lead to vulnerability are varied, may 
be temporary or permanent, and may vary in severity over time 
(c) APP scams may include long-running APP scams or in the moment APP scams.
Here, Miss B was the victim of a reasonably sophisticated scam and it is apparent that she 
was going through a challenging time. She had recently had a baby, and already had a small 
child under thirteen months old; she had been diagnosed with a health condition; was in 
financial difficulty and had the added concern of her mother who was unwell.
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, Miss B may not have 
been so taken in by the scam. But when considering Miss Bs personal circumstances 
collectively and given how important it was for her to try and get her own form of transport, 
Im persuaded her personal circumstances were such that she was more vulnerable and 
susceptible to this type of scam. 
While I acknowledge that Miss B was able to recognise some risk, and took some steps to 
protect herself, overall I am persuaded that her perception of the possible risks (and of the 
steps she could take to address them) was significantly and adversely affected by her 
personal circumstances at the time.
On balance, I consider that those circumstances mean that Miss B did meet the above 
definition at the time. In short, I dont consider it would be reasonable to expect Miss B to 
have protected herself against the scam she fell victim to.
With this in mind, I think it fair and reasonable that, under the provisions of the CRM Code, 
Metro is responsible for reimbursing Miss B with the money she sadly lost. 
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Metro Bank PLC, should now;
 
- Refund Miss B the £500 payment, she lost as a result of this scam.
- Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date Metro Bank 
PLC originally declined Miss Bs claim until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman