DRN-1843466
The complaint
Mr T complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled his car insurance claim 
unfairly. He said they undervalued his car and the settlement amount wasn't enough to cover 
the cost of repairs.
What happened
Mr T was involved in a motoring incident in February 2019. This led to his car being deemed 
a total loss, or write off, by Advantage.
Advantage valued the car to be worth £7,310. Mr T didnt agree with that, he felt it was worth 
£17,000. It was eventually agreed that if Mr T didnt want the car to be written off, he could 
accept a settlement which he could use towards the repairs. The settlement agreed was for 
£4,131.62.
Unfortunately, this turned out not to be enough to complete the repairs  because further 
damage was found, namely to the sub frame. Mr T didnt think it was fair that he had to bear 
additional costs so sought further payment from Advantage. He said he was led to believe 
the settlement amount would be sufficient.
Advantage agreed to a further payment of £927.40 in relation to VAT but it didnt agree to 
anything beyond that. Advantage said once the cash settlement had been agreed it carried 
no further liability  and therefore it was for Mr T to make up any shortfall.
Agreement couldnt be reached so an investigator here looked into things. They checked the 
trade guides which we use to help determine whether a valuation is fair, and felt it was.
The investigator also looked into Mr Ts concerns about the cash settlement amount. But 
they felt Advantage had been clear that if further damage was identified it would be for Mr T 
to cover additional associated costs.
Mr T didnt agree, he still felt the car had been significantly undervalued.
I wrote to Mr T and Advantage to say I was thinking of reaching a different conclusion to the 
investigator. That was because I didnt believe Advantage was as clear as it shouldve been 
when it explained the settlement amount to Mr T.
I said that didnt mean I was going to ask it to cover Mr Ts shortfall, but I thought it had 
caused unnecessary trouble and upset  for which I felt he should be compensated.
Having listened to the calls I thought Advantage shouldve been clearer with Mr T about his 
options  including that he might be out of pocket, something he raised concerns about 
before the repairs had been undertaken. I thought Advantage shouldve been clearer that if 
the repair costs were greater this would be for Mr T to pay.
Mr T was given the impression by Advantage that when the air suspension was found to be 
fine the repairs would all be covered by the settlement. Advantage seemed to take quite an 
active role in the repairs and costs, and said if it becomes a total loss, well have to sort that 
out later.I couldnt see that Advantage explored the alternative of writing the car off and allowing
Mr T to keep the salvage  something its report suggests may be a preferred option. I 
doubted Mr T wouldve been entirely happy with that option but felt a better explanation of 
his options and a clearer explanation that the amount offered was final wouldve helped to 
avoid the trouble and upset caused.
That said, if Mr T had taken that option the car may have been worth less, on account of it 
being a total loss. Mr T would also have received less than he did, because in keeping the 
car in a write off scenario, Advantage wouldve retained the salvage value of it, which was 
deemed to be £1,754.40.
Turning to Advantages initial valuation of £7,310, I understood Mr T's belief that this is 
nowhere near what he felt the car was worth. Our investigator explained that our service 
looks at trade guides to see whether we think a valuation is fair. Having checked those 
myself, I was in agreement that £7,310 was reasonable in all the circumstances.
I noted that Mr T found some adverts showing cars for sale for more, but explained that we 
dont tend to be persuaded by advertisements. Trade guides are based on extensive 
nationwide research of likely (but not actual) selling prices. They use advertised prices and 
auction prices to work out what likely selling prices wouldve been. We expect insurers to 
use trade guides when valuing a car for claims purposes, and based on the circumstances of 
Mr Ts complaint, I thought it was fair that Advantage did so here.
Mr T replied to my provisional decision to say he was happy that I agreed the explanation of 
the settlement hadn't been clear. But he still felt the valuation was too low. He felt the trade 
guides wouldn't have taken into account the low mileage and condition of the car. And he 
suggested maybe the car manufacturer may be able to make a fairer valuation. Mr T was 
advised that if he wanted to send any further information in he could do so; but he hasn't.
Advantage accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There isn't much for me to add to my provisional decision, which is set out above. I 
understand Mr T's feelings around the valuation of the car, but it'd be unusual for us to say 
relying on the trade guides is unfair. There would need to be some compelling evidence that 
the car in question had something that set it apart from those in the guides.
Mr T has rightly pointed out that the car had low mileage and was in good condition, but 
these factors were taken into account in the valuations already so wouldn't be enough to say 
relying on the trade guides was unfair. So I still think Advantage was reasonable in doing so.
That said, I also maintain my view that Advantage should compensate Mr T for not being 
clear enough in its communications with him.
Putting things right
I require Advantage to pay Mr T £100 compensation for unnecessary trouble and upset 
caused by its unclear communication.My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint, and I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr T £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Will Weston
Ombudsman