DRN-3885009
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with Inter Partner Assistance SAs (IPA) handling and settlement
of a claim made under their home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J have a home insurance policy, which also has separate home emergency
insurance cover underwritten by IPA.
In December 2021 Mr and Mrs Js shower developed a temperature issue, so they contacted
IPA to make a home emergency claim.
IPA appointed an engineer to inspect the problem and they determined there was a fault with
the thermostatic shower cartridge. They said parts would be required and they would return
to carry out a repair.
Two weeks later another engineer attended, with a thermostatic cartridge. However, they
said the whole panel unit which contained three shower cartridges needed to be replaced,
rather than the one in isolation  and this would need to be ordered. Mr and Mrs J were
unhappy with this, as they said the whole unit was also determined as required during the
first visit, and they had been expecting the engineer to arrive with this to complete repairs
having already waited two weeks.
Due to the length of time repairs were taking, and the fact Mr and Mrs J didnt have washing
facilities with hot water, IPA agreed to pay the cost of a private repair, subject to the £1,000
policy limit. They also paid £150 compensation. Mr and Mrs J arranged a private repair and
submitted the repair invoices to IPA totalling £862.46.
However, IPA didnt cover the full cost of the invoices. They said they would only pay the
remainder of the policy limit, after costs they had already incurred during the previous
engineer visits had been deducted. IPA said this left £342 to pay towards Mr and Mrs Js
repairs, which meant there was a shortfall in the total repair costs Mr and Mrs J incurred.
Mr and Mrs J remained unhappy and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said that she recognised
IPA had incurred costs in the visits. But she said it looked like the costs of parts which hadnt
been replaced had also been deducted, when there was no evidence they had been fitted.
So, she said IPA should pay the full invoice total, which she said was £862.92.
IPA didnt agree. They said it wasnt fair for them not to be able to deduct the full costs they
had incurred from the total limit, before paying the remainder to Mr and Mrs J.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision. I reached broadly the same outcome as the investigator, but 
there were some additional reasons. And there were some additional things that I was 
minded to say IPA needed to do to put things right. So I issued a provisional decision, to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings, before I reached my final 
decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached broadly the same outcome as our investigator, but there are some 
additional reasons for this. Im also minded to direct IPA to do something additional to 
put things right, in addition to what was recommended by our investigator. So, Im 
issuing a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my 
initial findings, before I reach my final decision.
Mr and Mrs Js home emergency cover has a limit of £1,000 for any one claim. 
Following private repairs completed by Mr and Mrs J totalling £862.46, IPA has paid 
Mr and Mrs J £342, leaving a shortfall of costs they incurred. IPA says the amount it 
has paid Mr and Mrs J is the remainder of the policy limit, after deducting what they 
say they already paid under the claim when they appointed engineers.
Our investigator didnt think the full £658 deductions IPA made from the £1,000 limit 
were reasonable. And based on what Ive seen, Im minded to agree with our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Our investigator asked for a breakdown of costs incurred by IPA during the claim. 
However, IPA wasnt able to provide an accurate breakdown of this. They provided 
several different breakdowns, but none of these actually totalled the £658 IPA 
deducted from that £1,000 limit. So, Im not satisfied IPA has shown the deductions 
here were the costs they incurred. In any event, I also dont think deducting both 
visits and parts is fair even if they did total £658 and IPA could evidence it  Ill 
explain why.
The claim was made for an issue with the hot water temperature. The job notes from 
the first visit show that it was determined that there was a faulty shower cartridge. But 
the plumber also said all three should be replaced as it was likely there would be 
leaks if only one was replaced.
At the second visit, a different engineer arrived and they only had the single 
cartridge, despite what the first engineer had concluded. They then attempted to 
carry out a repair using only this single part, and as already predicted by the first 
engineer (but not taken into account by the second), there were then leaks and 
issues with the remaining cartridges. So, the issue remained unresolved, and 
additional parts were needed  as predicted two weeks before.
I accept that IPA will have incurred costs from their engineers in visiting and 
diagnosing the issue. But given what happened here, which Ive outlined above, it 
does seem that the second visit shouldnt have gone ahead as it did. Instead, the 
parts deemed required at the first visit should have been ordered to carry out an 
effective repair, and the second visit should have been to carry out those repairs. 
Instead, the second engineer arrived with a part which they shouldve already known 
wouldnt have been sufficient on its own. So effectively that second visit was 
unnecessary and didnt add any value or move the claim or repairs further along.With this in mind, I dont think its fair or reasonable for IPA to deduct the costs of that
second visit from the total claim limit. And as the parts werent correct to be able to 
carry out a lasting and effective repair, I dont think its reasonable to deduct these 
cost from the claim limit either. These parts also werent used as part of the ultimate 
repair that Mr and Mrs J had to privately arrange either, so I cant say that cost 
should reasonably be deducted from Mr and Mrs Js claim or policy limit (or 
reimbursement).
Therefore, Im minded to conclude it would only be fair and reasonable for IPA to 
deduct the cost of the first visit and diagnosis from the policy limit  as that is a cost 
IPA has reasonably incurred here. As Ive said, IPA hasnt been able to provide an 
accurate breakdown of the actual costs incurred. But from what Ive seen, it appears 
there was a call out charge of £35, and the job sheet from that first attendance shows 
the engineer was only onsite 25 minutes, so only a single hourly rate totalling £45 
should apply. And an added 20% VAT would need to be added to this total (£16). So, 
I think it would be reasonable to only deduct this amount - £96 - from the £1,000 total 
limit, which then leaves £904 remaining.
Ive also listened to the telephone calls Mr and Mrs J had with IPA following the 
second visit. During these calls, this is where alternative settlements were explored 
with Mr and Mrs J. IPA suggested it would pay up to the policy limit for private 
repairs. Mr and Mrs J asked for specific clarification of what this meant in terms of 
amounts theyd be covered for. They werent told that previous costs would be 
deducted, and when asked specifically, IPA said they would have up to £1,000 to use 
towards the private repair.
Whilst IPA may have intended to outline the remainder of the limit would be the 
amount Mr and Mrs J could spend, they specifically confirmed £1,000 instead. 
Ordinarily we might not conclude that a business had to honour incorrect advice 
about policy limits more generally, if they didnt have an overall impact to a 
policyholder beyond a loss of expectation. But where that incorrect advice had led to 
a direct cost to a consumer as a result, it may be fair and reasonable for a business 
to pay that amount which otherwise wouldnt have been incurred.
Here, Mr and Mrs J were led to believe they had £1,000 to carry out repairs, and they 
did repairs at a cost of £862.46 (which is less than they were told they had to spend). 
So given this, and the fact that I dont think its fair to deduct more than the first visit 
costs  which Ive approximated as £96 leaving £904 under the limit available - Im 
minded to conclude it would be fair and reasonable for IPA to pay the full invoice 
costs to Mr and Mrs J.
Our investigator said the total costs Mr and Mrs J incurred was £862.92, as this is the
amount on the claim form Mr and Mrs J submitted, but having checked the invoices, 
it is slightly different and actually totals £862.46. Therefore, as IPA has already paid 
£342, the remainder due from this that Im minded to direct IPA to pay would be 
£520.46.
Unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, Ill 
also be directing IPA to add 8% simple interest to this amount from date of payment 
of the invoice to date of settlement.
IPA paid Mr and Mrs J £150 compensation for the time taken during the claim before
Mr and Mrs J were given authorisation to arrange repairs privately. However, Im also
minded to direct IPA increase this amount. Ill explain why.The second (unnecessary) visit was over two weeks after the claim and first visit 
were made. And as Ive outlined, I think the second visit shouldnt have gone ahead 
as it did. Its clear that the first visit outlined parts needed, and risks of leaks 
happening if only one cartridge was replaced - and thats exactly what did happen. 
So, this could have been avoided had the conclusions from the first visit been 
followed, consequently this caused unnecessary and avoidable delays.
It seems the engineers appointed also told IPA that Mr and Mrs J had other washing 
facilities available, when this wasnt the case - as both shower and bath required the 
same mixer tap system which had failed. So, the claim was first declined as not being 
an emergency, before later being accepted when Mr and Mrs J let IPA know the 
engineer had given incorrect information about their washing facilities.
It also appears there was some confusion between IPA understanding what parts 
were required to carry out an effective repair. I say this because it seems that there 
was a misinterpretation between the three-dial unit which was needed, and the entire 
shower enclosure, which then led to IPA saying the cost of sanitaryware wouldnt be 
covered, which further confused matters.
Mr and Mrs J didnt have access to washing facilities from when the claim was first 
raised on 30 December 2021 and were having to visit friends and family to wash. IPA 
were aware of this, and Mr and Mrs J had reiterated this in the multiple calls they 
needed to make to IPA. Its clear this was frustrating, inconvenient and impacting 
Mr and Mrs J on a daily basis. Ultimately, they didnt again have washing facilities 
until the start of February, following the unnecessary second visit, avoidable delays, 
and finally being able to arrange their own private repair. So, the impact to Mr and 
Mrs J was for a prolonged period. 
Whilst a private repair was eventually agreed by IPA and meant a repair could be 
completed quickly to restore washing facilities, this wasnt complete until around a 
month after making the claim. Mr and Mrs J had to organise those repairs, along with 
buying their own parts to facilitate those repairs, despite having a home emergency 
policy, which has the intention of resolving an emergency situation for a policyholder 
 but this clearly didnt happen in Mr and Mrs Js case.
With this in mind, I dont think the £150 compensation offered by IPA is sufficient for 
what happened, and the impact on Mr and Mrs J. So, unless anything changes as a 
result of the responses to my provisional decision, Im also minded to direct IPA to 
increase compensation to a total of £225.
Therefore, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct IPA to reimburse the 
remainder of Mr and Mrs Js repair invoice (totalling £520.46) with 8% simple interest added. 
I was also minded to direct IPA to pay a further £75 compensation taking the total to £225.The responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs J responded accepting my provisional decision.
IPA didnt provide a written response by the deadline in the provisional decision, so our 
investigator contacted IPA and they confirmed they accepted the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. As 
neither party has provided a response which would lead me to reach a different outcome, my 
final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to:
Reimburse the remainder of Mr and Mrs Js repair invoice totalling £520.46
Add 8% simple interest* to this amount from the date the invoice was paid to date of
settlement
Pay a further £75 compensation, taking the total to £225
*If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs J how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs J a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman