DRN-3208680
The complaint
Mr B complains that Metro Bank PLC failed to protect him from falling victim to a scam. 
For the purposes of this decision, all reference to Mr B includes his representative.
What happened
The events that unfolded are well known to the parties, so I dont intend to detail them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on the key reasons for my decision  our rules allow me to do so. 
In short, Mr B has alleged that he was blackmailed into sending money to a fraudulent outfit 
using money from his Metro account. He made a series of payments to the perpetrators 
shortly after first opening this Metro account in 2021, which amounted to £8,420. 
Mr Bs complaint with Metro is that the bank ought to have intervened on account of 
identifying these payments as being possible fraud. Especially, given the health conditions 
he has, which he says can make him more susceptible to manipulative techniques. 
Metro didnt uphold the complaint, explaining that its fraud detection systems were not 
triggered because it didnt deem the account movements as particularly suspicious. Not 
least, because a new account will naturally have very little normal account activity to 
compare to. Metro did pause an incoming credit from an account Mr B had with another 
provider, because it wanted further information before releasing the funds. This was relayed 
to Mr B after these disputed payments had left the account. So, Metro questioned why Mr B 
didnt raise the suspected fraud during this conversation. 
Mr B referred the matter to our service, where one of our investigators concluded that Metro 
could not reasonably be held liable for reimbursing the loss incurred. Because Mr B 
disagrees, the case has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, there is no persuasive evidence that Metro was aware of the threat Mr B claims to 
have been made against him, until such time that Mr B reported the offence after all of the 
payments were made. Accordingly, Ive reached my decision on the basis that there would 
have been no plausible way for Metro to have known something untoward was happening, 
unless Mr B revealed as much. 
Mr B has made detailed submissions about how he came to incur this loss, as has Metro. 
Whats left for me to determine is whether Metro ought to refund the disputed payments on 
account of failing to protect Mr B from financial harm as a result of fraud. Its common ground 
that this would not be feasible under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (otherwise 
known as the CRM code), given that Mr B made the payments under duress and not under 
deception  meaning he would be ineligible for the protection the code can provide. 
Turning to authorisation, the evidence is consistent with Mr B having given his consent for 
these funds to be paid to this payee. Certain security measures needed to be satisfied in 
order for the transactions to have gone ahead, such as one time passcodes (OTP) being 
used. I am not convinced the account was compromised as such that these payments could 
have been made without Mr Bs authority, and Mr B has not provided compelling evidence to 
make me think otherwise. 
So, Im satisfied these disputed payments were all authorised by Mr B. Indeed, this is 
accordant with his version of events that he knowingly made the payments because of a 
threat of blackmail against him.
The starting position at law is that a consumer is liable for authorised payments. Meaning 
that, unless there was a breach or failing by Metro that ought to shift liability, Mr B cannot 
claim that the bank ought to reimburse his loss. 
However, pursuant to the relevant regulations and various principles of good practice, there 
are certain circumstances where I would expect a bank, such as Metro, to intervene with a 
consumers payment instruction(s). Should the situation warrant it, Metro could be held 
accountable for Mr Bs loss if it failed to identify and act upon transactions that were unusual 
or uncharacteristic enough compared to the accounts typical account activity. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I am not entirely convinced that the succession of payments    
Mr B complains about exhibited particularly concerning or irregular account behaviour. Its 
true that the payments were made shortly after the account was opened  but this is not 
uncommon for a new account. Moving money inwards and outwards represents everyday 
consumer behaviour  its the very nature of a current account that its used to bring about 
debits and credits. Naturally, new payees will need to be created in order to make payments 
to other accounts possible. And in terms of monitoring habitual spending, Metro would in 
many ways have no real data to rely upon  it cannot compare and analyse spending 
patterns when there is a lack of account history to work from.  
But in any event, its only fair for Metro to cover the loss incurred if it can reasonably be 
concluded that such an intervention would have resulted in Mr B cancelling the payments. 
Only if I was persuaded that the bank stepping in would have prevented Mr B proceeding 
with paying this particular payee would mean that the bank should reimburse him. This can 
be referred to as causation. Regardless of whether the bank should have enquired about 
the payments, the outcome of Mr B receiving recompense from Metro can only be safely 
reached if causation is satisfied. As such, the key question in this case is whether Metro 
intervening would have prevented Mr B from making the payments. 
Im required to make this decision based on the balance of probabilities; that is, what I find 
more likely than not to have happened. Ive carefully considered all of the available 
evidence, paying particular attention to what we know about Mr Bs state of affairs when 
making the payments, together with the behaviour he demonstrated both before and after 
these transactions left his Metro account. 
Mr B previously raised concerns with other bank account providers as early as 2020 (i.e. 
around a year before these disputed payments with Metro). Theres credible evidence 
documenting that he was alarmed about this particular payee, with the exact same name as 
the one he paid here, some months before he used his Metro account to make further 
payments. We know that Mr B allegedly received threats of blackmail prior to opening this account with 
Metro and raised this with the other banks he had holdings with in an attempt to recover the 
money sent. In other words, Mr B was aware of this wrongdoing against him and had asked 
other banks to compensate him for allowing payments to be made towards the culprit before 
he went on to make further payments to the same guilty party using this Metro account.
As Ive already explained, Mr B did not mention to Metro that he was acting under the 
pressure of extortion and threats. This remained the case even when the bank spoke to him 
about the precautionary measures it had taken to double check an incoming credit to the 
account. This is important, as it makes evident that Mr B was not open to revealing what was 
happening, despite the natural opportunity to discuss the account movements while already 
on the phone with the bank. 
Overall, it doesnt make sense to me why Mr B did not report the blackmail to Metro at an 
earlier stage given his concerns and strength of feeling that other banks had failed to protect 
him from financial harm. 
Whats more, we know that Mr B continued to make payments to this individual once he had 
told Metro about the threat against him. Following him raising the matter with Metro in      
July 2021, Mr B proceeded to send payments to this same payee from accounts held 
elsewhere. For example, payments totalling £1,500 from his account with Starling Bank all 
were paid after Mr B told Metro that it shouldnt have allowed the sequence of payments 
from leaving his account. As I understand it, the same blackmail accusation was reported, 
again with Mr B explaining that he made the payments under duress. 
To that end, Mr B has demonstrated his intention to send money to this payee even after he 
claimed he ought to have been prevented from doing so by his banking providers. 
Consequently, even if I was of the view that Metro ought to have spoken to Mr B before the 
payments were allowed to be let go, if what Mr B has told us is true  that he paid a 
blackmailer before reporting this alleged crime  it seems highly unlikely that the bank 
wouldve been provided with the true purpose of the payments or been able to dissuade him 
from making them. 
Besides, it seems plausible that Mr B would have found other means to pay this individual 
had this series of payments not gone ahead from his Metro account  it appears that he 
moved money between his accounts with different banks to facilitate this, and at times 
created new banking relationships while ongoing investigations were being undertaken with 
his existing accounts. 
Again, this reinforces my conclusion that an intervention from Metro was very unlikely to 
have deterred Mr B from carrying out these payments. Everything considered, I cannot 
safely conclude that Metros acts/omissions was the true cause of Mr Bs loss. 
Finally, Mr B has submitted that Starling shouldve paid greater attention to his account 
movements in light of his health. Mr B has provided medical evidence to our service. 
However, as I understand it, Starling was not aware of Mr Bs condition, nor his mental 
wellbeing at the material time. To that end, I cannot fairly factor this into the banks decision 
making.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman