DRN-3456044
The complaint
Mr P complains Wise Payments Limited wont reimburse money he lost as a result of a 
scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr P received a call from Golden Core offering an investment opportunity. He was 
persuaded to invest and in November and December 2020 he made payments 
totalling £2100.32 and €7,981.40. He paid individuals, crypto exchanges. He set up a 
crypto wallet from which payments were sent on to Golden Core. He also made one 
successful withdrawal of £50 but was then told he couldnt make further withdrawals. 
He realised hed been scammed when he was continually contacted to make further 
payments. 
Wise declined to reimburse the transactions as it said there was no indication the 
recipients were involved in scams. 
Our investigator also didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that as Wise is an 
electronic money issuer, set up with purpose of sending and receiving money, 
including internationally, the payments wouldnt have looked unusual. 
Mr P asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. He said there was no 
warning the payments were irreversible and there was no information about being 
careful of fraudsters trying to steal his money, or how to recognise fraudulent activity.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of the 
complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with terms and conditions, authorised payment 
instructions should be executed without undue delay. The starting position is that 
liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even where they are duped 
into making that payment. There is no dispute that Mr P made the payments, and so 
they were authorised. 
Wise is an electronic money issuer  set up with the purpose of sending and 
receiving money, including internationally and in different currencies.  And quite often 
that will be for large sums. So a customer using their account to send money in GBP 
or Euros wouldnt be unusual. And having looked at the operation of Mr Ps account, 
I dont find the amounts to have been so unusual, that they ought to have triggered 
Wises fraud alerts. I accept these were payments to new payees, but again that is a 
feature of electronic money issuers  that money is regularly sent to new payees. 
Overall, Im not persuaded the payments were of a nature that I think Wise ought to 
have intervened in them. And Im not aware that there was any interaction between 
Wise and Mr P at the time, where any concerns were expressed that would lead me 
to conclude Wise ought to paused payments and asked Mr P about them. 
Mr P has said there was no warning the payments were irreversible. Im unsure as to 
why Mr P would have thought they were; in any event this information is contained 
within Wises FAQs. And there is a lot of information in the public domain about 
fraud, the common scam tactics and how to keep money safe. And as I have found 
the payments werent so unusual or so uncharacteristic that they ought to have 
triggered any fraud alerts, there wouldnt have been a reason for Wise to provide a 
fraud warning.  
I understand Mr P has lost money, and its unfortunate hes fallen victim to a scam. 
But as I dont find Wise ought to have done anything more when executing his 
payment requests, I find no basis on which to ask it to reimburse Mr Ps losses. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman