DRN-2404037
The complaint
Complaint
Mr P has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a fee-
paying Advantage Gold account in April 2009.
Mr P says that at the time, he held a fee-free account which had a £50 overdraft limit. He 
says he went to a NatWest branch and asked if he could increase his limit to £150. Mr P 
says that the lady he spoke to made him think that if he wanted to secure the larger overdraft 
limit he would need to agree to a fee-paying Advantage Gold account.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 24 May 2021, in which I explained that I was minded to 
uphold this complaint. I have included an extract of my provisional decision below.
Mr P says that he had a fee-free account, and this had a £50 overdraft limit, which I 
understand was added to his account in November 2008. He says that he incurred overdraft 
charges as he exceeded the overdraft limit, so asked NatWest if he could increase his limit. 
Mr P says he was invited in for an account review and whilst the discussion was meant to be 
about an overdraft, he says the lady started telling him about the Advantage Gold account 
and was told hed probably be able to get a £150 overdraft limit with that account. He says 
that the member of staff then said shed check if he could get a £150 overdraft limit approved 
and said it would be so says he proceeded with the account.
However, NatWest says that as Mr P already had an overdraft on a fee-free account, it says 
Mr P was aware that he could have an overdraft on a fee-free account. But Mr P says that 
he came away from the meeting very much convinced that he had to agree to the new 
account to get the overdraft limit increased.
Having considered the competing points, I am persuaded by what Mr P has said. I say this 
because, Mr P has consistently said that he approached the bank as he was looking to 
increase his overdraft limit. I can see that he did exceed his agreed limit shortly prior to the 
sale of the Advantage Gold. And NatWest has confirmed that Mr Ps overdraft limit was 
increased shortly after his account had been upgraded to a fee-paying Advantage Gold 
account. Therefore Mr Ps testimony about the sale does match the wider evidence that is 
available.
Furthermore, looking through the sales illustrator document that NatWest has provided. This 
strongly suggests that the Advantage Gold account benefits were discussed with Mr P. But it 
doesnt suggest that increasing his overdraft limit on his existing account was discussed as 
an alternative option for Mr P. Nor does it suggest that Mr P was made aware that he could 
in fact receive a £100 interest free overdraft buffer on his existing account either. 
So based on everything that I have seen, I currently think that NatWest failed to make it clear 
to Mr P that he didnt have to have the Advantage Gold account to increase his overdraft 
limit.
NatWest says that the account was not recommended to Mr P, whereas Mr P says it was 
recommended to him. Looking through the illustrator document, it does suggest that Mr Ps 
demands and needs were discussed and NatWest and this led to NatWest recommending 
he upgrade to the Advantage Gold account. Looking through the document, I note it says 
that Mr P may have a need for travel insurance and travel and leisure discounts. But Mr P 
says at the time, he was a single parent of two children, who was struggling to get by, living 
on disability living allowance. He says that travel was not something he was able to afford at 
the time. So I dont think he had a particular need for the travel benefits the account 
provided. Mr P has also said that he already had cover for his mobile phone so didnt need 
the cover provided by the account. And at the time, phones had to be registered to be 
covered by the insurance policy and as far as I am aware, Mr P never did register a phone  
which also suggests he had no need for the cover provided by the account. 
I note that Mr P mayve been able to benefit from some of the account benefits such as 
accidental death cover and extended warranty. But based on Mr Ps circumstances at the 
time, I dont think NatWests recommendation was particularly suitable. 
So overall, I currently think that the Advantage Gold account was mis-sold.
Reward Platinum account
I note that Mr P signed an application form to change his account to a Reward Platinum 
account in July 2016. Looking at the form, I think it made it clear that Mr P would pay £18 per 
month for the account and explained that fee-free accounts were also available. It also 
stated that Mr P expected to rely on two or more insurance benefits and that he had enough 
Direct Debits on the account so that he could earn cash back rewards on his account.
I cant see that any changes were made to Mr Ps overdraft at the time. So I think Mr P 
agreed to this packaged account because he wanted it, rather than because he thought he 
had to have it. Therefore I dont think itd be appropriate to require NatWest to refund his 
account fees for this account.
Overdraft charges 
Since contacting our service about his complaint, Mr P has commented on the fairness of 
the overdraft charges that had been applied to his account. Hes also complained that he 
was allowed to withdraw money from his account even though it meant his account 
exceeded his overdraft limit. Mr P says that NatWest should not have let him do this.
However, as I cant see that these concerns were raised with NatWest when he initially 
complained, I am unable to address them here. Therefore if Mr P wants to pursue these 
concerns further, he will need to raise them with NatWest in the first instance.
NatWest responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr P 
also responded. He said he accepted my provisional decision, although he did add that he 
would like to reserve the right to challenge any deductions made from the redress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered what NatWest and Mr P have said in their responses, I see no reason 
why I should reach a different outcome to the one I reached in my provisional decision. 
Mr P has said that hed like to reserve the right to challenge any deductions made by 
NatWest from the redress. Id like to reassure Mr P that, if he accepts this final decision and 
has any questions or concerns about any deductions that mayve been made, he can 
contact NatWest and our service.
Putting things right
So based on the above, NatWest should do the following, to put matters right:
Refund the packaged account fees Mr P paid from April 2009 until he changed his 
account to a Reward Platinum account;
Add 8% simple interest to those fees, calculated from the date he paid each fee, until 
the date of settlement.
Refund any overdraft charges that Mr P incurred as a direct result of the above 
account fees being applied to the account.
If Mr P saved money because of a better rate of interest on his overdraft by having 
the PBA and NatWest can show exactly how much Mr P saved, it may deduct these 
savings from the amount it pays him. NatWest must explain clearly and simply to Mr 
P how it has worked out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
I therefore require National Westminster Bank Plc to do what I have set out above to put 
matters right.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman