DRN-3992933
The complaint
Miss P complains that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) processed a debit card payment when 
there werent sufficient funds in her account. As a result, her account went into and 
unarranged overdraft. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
On 11 September 2022 Miss P made an online purchase for £225.98, using her debit card, 
to a firm Ill refer to as A. To fund this payment, Miss Ps partner had transferred £226 into 
her account earlier that day. The payment hadnt been requested by A and so, when Miss P 
saw she had an available balance on 16 September 2022, she transferred £207 back to her 
partner.
On the same day, A requested the £225.86 payment which Halifax processed the following 
day. Due to the weekend and bank holiday (non-working days), the payment debited Miss 
Ps account on 20 September 2022. This took Miss P about £58 overdrawn.
Miss P complained to Halifax but they didnt uphold it. They said:
When Miss P made the £225.98 payment on 11 September 2022, it was marked as 
pending  which meant, while the funds hadnt yet been paid, they were preventing 
Miss P from spending the funds. And normally, the company (payee) would claim this 
money within five days. When this doesnt happen though, they remove the pending 
payment and allow access to the funds. 
Removing the pending payment however doesnt stop the company claiming the 
funds later. 
In Miss Ps case, the pending payment was released back on 16 September 2022 
which allowed Miss P to transfer the funds. On the same day, A requested the 
payment which was processed on 17 September 2022. 
Once a company has a claim to funds, theyre unable to refuse payment even if there 
are no longer available funds in the account  and, here, As claim to the money 
predated the fund transfer Miss P made.
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman but our Investigator didnt think 
Halifax had to do anything further. She said Miss P had authorised the payment and, as it 
wasnt requested by A within five days, it was removed as pending. Halifax did however 
receive the request for payment from A after this and processed it in line with the account 
terms  which allowed for a payment to be taken even when there isnt enough money in the 
account. 
Miss P disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, she added:
Halifax moved her money from pending to available, and so the money was hers to 
transfer. 
A have told her they collected the money on 16 September, so she doesnt see why 
she has paid them twice.
Its Halifaxs fault she went overdrawn.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss Ps dissatisfaction at finding her account overdrawn. But what I must 
consider is whether Halifax is responsible for this. I know this will disappoint Miss P but, for 
similar reasons as our Investigator, I dont think they are. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Miss P authorised the £225.98 payment to A on 11 September 2022. 
Halifax therefore were expected to follow Miss Ps instructions and process this payment. 
And, upon the payment being authorised, Halifax marked the funds as pending on Miss Ps 
account  which meant they werent showing in Miss Ps available account balance and so 
couldnt be used again at that time. I think this was reasonable.
A didnt however request the payment until six days later. And, because Halifax release 
payments from pending after five days (as payments are ordinarily requested within this 
time), this meant the funds showed as available when Miss P checked her account balance 
on 16 September 2022. I appreciate Miss P may not have realised when she made the £207 
transfer out of her account that A hadnt received the £225.98 payment she authorised. But I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax to have removed the payment as pending given it 
hadnt been requested by A within the five-day period. Unfortunately, A subsequently 
requested the payment and, given Miss P had authorised it, Halifax processed it accordingly. 
And the account terms say:
If you dont have enough money in your account (or available arranged overdraft) 
your payment may still be taken. This may mean that your account goes into an 
unarranged overdraft.
As Miss P had authorised the payment for the online purchase, A had a claim to those funds. 
And even though it took Miss P into an unarranged overdraft, I think Halifax acted fairly  
and in line with the account terms  by processing the payment upon receiving As request.
I sympathise with Miss Ps situation in that I dont think she knowingly transferred the money 
out of her account to avoid paying A. But it was her responsibility to ensure there were 
sufficient funds in the account to cover the payment. And having carefully reviewed 
everything, Im satisfied only one £225.98 payment to A was debited from Miss Ps account 
and that Halifax arent responsible for the account going overdrawn.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman