DRN-3516988
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by CRN Financial Services Ltd to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him. He says that the critical yield should have made 
CRN aware that the transfer wasnt in his best interests. He believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
Mr D says that he was approached by his employer to see if he wanted to move his DB 
scheme benefits away. Following this, in 2006, Mr D met with an adviser of CRN. I 
understand his employer paid for this advice.  
CRN completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ds circumstances and objectives. 
There were, in brief:
Mr D was 37 years old, single, and he had no dependents. 
He was employed and currently earned £12,000. 
He currently contributed to his employers group personal pension arrangement. 
The suitability report, and other documentation, said the reasons for this recommendation 
were that Mr D wanted to: 
Increase the security of his pension fund.
Maximise, or increase, his income in retirement, and possibly retire early.
Provide lump sum death benefits if he died before retirement.
Have a greater flexibility in the way that he could take his pension benefits
And as CRN has noted, Mr D did record that he wanted to break all ties with his ex-employer 
and wanted to move his funds to a personal plan, under his own control.
CRN also carried out an assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk, which it said was medium. 
This was qualified as saying he was fine with taking a moderate degree of risk in the hope 
that his pension could be higher in retirement.
On 26 April 2006, CRN advised Mr D to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension 
and invest the proceeds. The transfer value was £15,605 and it was placed into a third 
parties fund which was described as being a fund with a balanced risk. 
Mr D complained in 2020 to CRN about the suitability of the transfer advice because he 
says: 
He gave up significant rights when he transferred away from his DB scheme. 
His needs werent properly assessed, and his objectives were chosen from a generic 
list, rather than being his own. 
There were no compelling reasons of Mr Ds own to make the transfer.
The critical yield was high, and so Mr D was likely to get lower benefits because of 
the transfer.
CRN didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said that Mr D wanted a lump sum on death. And it 
was reasonable to assume that the critical yield of 6.9% could be achieved annually, 
particularly given his medium attitude to risk. And Mr D had indicated that an increase in 
pension security was a priority for him. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that CRN pay compensation. He said that the transfer was unlikely to provide 
better benefits than the DB scheme, and Mr D was giving up valuable guaranteed benefits. 
And there were no other compelling reasons why Mr D wanted to transfer.  So, he didnt 
think the advice to transfer was suitable for Mr D. 
CRN disagreed, saying, in brief. The sale was well documented, the employers scheme was 
in deficit and Mr D had concerns about this. The rate of return was reasonable and was 
suitable for a medium risk taker. Mr D did want flexibility and the death benefits may be 
useful as the fund could go to his estate rather than being lost in the DB scheme on his 
death. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. He did respond to the issues 
CRN had raised but there was no new material issues or evidence provided. So, the 
complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
COB 5.3.29A(4):
The regulator expected a prospective investor to receive sufficient, clear information to 
make an informed investment decision based on a firm understanding of the risks involved 
and a knowledge of what protection, rights, expectations and options they may be giving up. 
At least one illustration for the personal pension/section-32 plan had to be on a similar basis 
to the DB scheme, e.g. what spouses pension and increases in payment were shown.
A reason why letter or equivalent now had to be issued as soon as practicable after the 
recommendation. It should:
explain why that advice is suitable. That explanation should take explicit account of the 
alternative of remaining within the occupational scheme. and
demonstrate a real link between the circumstances, objectives and risk profile of the 
investor, and the recommendation made to him or her by the firm.Presumption of unsuitability
COB 5.3.29G specified the information a business should gather from the consumer and the 
DB scheme in order to assess suitability, in a similar way to the LAUTRO/FIMBRA guidance.
Importantly it also said for the first time that:
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
This is known as the presumption of unsuitability and has been renumbered to COBS 
19.1.6G in the current FCA rulebook.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at 
retirement was quoted as 6.9% per year. This compares with the discount rate of 6.5% per 
year for the 27 years to retirement in this case. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr D's 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. I think Mr D was likely to receive benefits of a 
lower overall value than the occupational scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in 
line with his attitude to risk. Although I accept that, at the time of transfer, it would have been 
reasonable to say that this might not have been a great deal lower. 
But there would be little point in Mr D giving up the guarantees available to him through his 
DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. And 
there was now a risk that he would achieve lower retirement benefits. So, for this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ds best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as CRN has 
said. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite 
providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Ill firstly say that I dont think that Mr Ds retirement needs were properly established. I can 
see he was asked a number of questions, and the answers he gave were pre-worded 
multiple choice selections. So, it was established, for example, that Mr D wanted some 
flexibility and to leave his employer. But I cant see that there was any further fact finding 
about Mr Ds aims than this. There was a further information section in relation to each 
question, but the only time this was used was to say that Mr D wanted life cover for his 
siblings. 
So, in general, I think whilst Mr D indicated he had some broad aims, such as, and for 
example flexibility, CRN didnt do enough to qualify or quantify how this would work for Mr D. 
Most importantly it didnt establish properly whether he was prepared to give up his DB 
scheme benefits to obtain these aims, or if there were any reasonable alternatives. Overall, I 
dont think that CRN established Mr Ds retirement needs in detail. And this isnt surprising 
given the time he had left to retirement. 
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mr D required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I dont think it was established that he had a genuine need to access his tax-free 
cash earlier than the normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later 
date. As far as I can see this wasnt discussed. 
I also cant see any evidence that Mr D had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. Again, this doesnt seem to have been discussed. 
Added to this Mr D was currently contributing to an employers defined contribution pension 
arrangement. So as this built up he would obtain many of the plus points of the DB scheme 
transfer. If he did need flexibility with his retirement income, or death benefits, then he could 
have used this in the future. 
Furthermore, Mr D was only 37 at the time of the advice, and based on what Ive seen he 
didnt have concrete retirement plans. As Mr D had around 27 years before he would think 
about accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about 
transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr 
D to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt properly know what his needs in 
retirement would be. If Mr D later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme he could have 
done so closer to retirement.
So, Im satisfied Mr D could have better met his income needs in retirement through the DB 
scheme at 65. This was the option that was likely to have provided him with the greatest, 
guaranteed income. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like his 
loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through 
a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mr D. But whilst I appreciate death 
benefits are important to consumers, and Mr D might have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr D about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think CRN explored to what extent Mr 
D was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
Mr D didnt have any dependents. And whilst Im sure Mr D would have wanted to provide for 
his siblings on his death. I dont think advising him to risk the majority of his current pension 
provision to do this was the right thing to do. 
Furthermore, if Mr D genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his close family, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I 
think CRN shouldve instead explored life insurance. I cant see that this was done. 
Overall, I dont think the different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the risk of a decrease in Mr Ds retirement benefits. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Ds desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr D was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr D  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
I appreciate that is was noted that the DB scheme was in deficit at the time of sale. But Ive 
not seen any persuasive evidence that the funding of the scheme was in a position that Mr D 
should have genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension. Or that it was likely 
that Mr D would get lower pension benefits. 
I appreciate that pension security was Mr Ds overriding objective and this may have 
affected his thoughts about the transfer. But in making the transfer Mr D was putting his 
pension income at risk. And given the lack of information about the scheme and its funding I 
dont think the transfer met this aim of security. 
Suitability of investments
CRN recommended that Mr D invest in pension providers balanced fund. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr D, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr D should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investments in the personal pension fund wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control, and the potential to provide for his close family would 
have sounded like attractive features to Mr D. But CRN wasnt there to just transact what Mr 
D might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr D 
needed and recommend what was in his best interests. I dont think limited advice was given 
here, CRN provided a full analysis and suitability report at the time of sale. 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr D was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  So, I think CRN shouldve advised Mr D to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr D would've gone ahead anyway, against CRN's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr D wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against CRNs advice. I say this because Mr D was an 
inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for the majority of Mr Ds retirement 
provision so far. So, if CRN had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the 
DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that 
advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ds concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, didnt think it was suitable for 
him or in his best interests. If CRN had explained that Mr D could meet all of his objectives 
without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I 
dont think Mr D would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think CRN should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that CRN also pay Mr D £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr D has been caused distress and concern in relation 
to his retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the 
unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator recommended 
is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the CRN to put Mr D, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for CRNs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
CRN must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr D has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
CRN may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date CRN receives notification of 
her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes CRN to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
CRN pays the balance.
CRN should also pay Mr D £300. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require CRN Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
CRN Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require CRN 
Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
CRN Financial Services Ltd pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on CRN Financial Services 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding if Mr D accepts my decision. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr D can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final 
decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman