DRN-4130463
The complaint
Mr E complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr E complains that PayPal lent irresponsibly to him when it approved a credit account for 
him with a £4000 credit limit.
Mr E complained to PayPal and said he should never have been allowed to open a credit 
account. He said his credit record showed that he had previously defaulted on a loan and 
that he had missed payments on a credit card.
PayPal didnt uphold the complaint. It said there was no evidence that it had lent to Mr E 
irresponsibly.
Mr E wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that although PayPal shouldve 
obtained more information about Mr Es income and expenditure, the information PayPal 
wouldve gathered had it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown 
that Mr E was able to afford the agreement.
Mr E didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending is set out on our 
website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Es complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that PayPal had to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Mr E could sustainably repay the borrowing. Theres no 
set list of checks that a lender has to carry out, but checks could include things such as the 
amount of credit, the repayment amount and the consumers financial circumstances. 
In Mr Es case, the PayPal application asked Mr E for information about his income and 
outgoings, his residential status and his address. Mr E declared that he was employed full 
time and that he was a homeowner with an income of between £2000 - £2500 per month. Mr 
E was also asked to provide information about his outgoings. Based on the information 
provided by Mr E, PayPal calculated that Mr E had around £1750 net monthly disposable 
income.
PayPal went on to carry out a credit search to look at the amount of other credit Mr E had 
and how this was being handled. PayPal says these checks showed that Mr E didnt have 
any defaults on any account in the last 12 months. PayPal wasnt able to provide this service 
with a copy of the credit search, so I havent been able to look at the amount of external 
credit Mr E held.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think the checks carried out by PayPal were reasonable and 
proportionate. I say this because the information Mr E provide about his income and 
outgoings was in general terms. PayPal didnt check Mr Es actual income and expenditure. 
Looking at the information Mr E provided about his income and residential status, I dont 
think the calculation of net monthly disposable income of £1750 is likely to be reasonable. I 
think it wouldve been proportionate for PayPal to verify Mr Es income and expenditure with 
payslips and bank statements.
Further, and as Ive already said, PayPal hasnt been able to provide a copy of the credit 
search, so Im unable to determine whether it took Mr Es existing credit commitments into 
account when it calculated his monthly disposable income.
For these reasons, I dont think the checks were reasonable and proportionate. Ive gone on 
to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown. Ive done this by 
looking at Mr Es bank statements for the three months leading up to the credit application.
The bank statements show that Mr E had average monthly income of £1842.00. They also 
show that Mr E had average monthly essential expenditure of £1097 with regular credit 
repayments of around £474 per month. Based on what Ive seen, this left Mr E with monthly 
disposable income of around £269. 
If Mr E had used the full credit facility on the PayPal account, the minimum repayments each 
month wouldve been around £120.
Based on what Ive seen, if PayPal had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, I 
think they wouldve concluded that the credit was affordable for Mr E. This is because Mr E 
had sufficient monthly disposable income to repay the credit sustainably, even if the full 
credit facility was utilised. Im satisfied that the credit was affordable for Mr E and that the 
decision to lend was fair.
I appreciate that Mr E has said that he was utilising his overdraft facility at the time of the 
application. This doesnt change my decision because an overdraft is a revolving credit 
facility and wouldnt have affected the calculation of net monthly disposable income, which 
snowed that Mr E had sufficient disposable income to afford the minimum repayments on the 
credit account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman