DRN-3840949
The complaint
Mr S complains about The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
and their decision to decline the claim he made on his home insurance policy after a leak 
was discovered in one of his owned properties.
What happened
Mr S held a home insurance policy, underwritten by NFU, that provided cover for the 
properties he owned that werent tenanted and instead used by him and his family. One of 
these homes was the property that sustained the damage in question.
Mr S insurance policy was re-keyed in October 2020, to take note of some changes and 
updates, and was live through to October 2021. In early March 2021, Mr S was notified of a 
leak in the property and so, he contacted NFU to make a claim on the policy to repair the 
damage caused.
But NFU declined the claim as they felt the property had been unoccupied for more than 60 
days and so, fell under the unoccupancy exclusion. Mr S was unhappy with this decision, 
explaining hed been unable to travel to the property due to COVID-19 restrictions set in 
place at the time. So, he didnt think NFU were fair to rely on this exclusion.
NFU considered Mr S comments, but their decision remained the same. They considered 
the COVID-19 restrictions in place at the time, as well as the last time Mr S had visited the 
property, and they thought Mr S shouldve been able to travel to the property to ensure it 
remained occupied in line with the policy terms and conditions. So, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Mr S remained unhappy with this, so he referred his complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He was satisfied the property 
fell under the unoccupancy exclusion, based on the terms and conditions of the policy. And 
he didnt think Mr S had made NFU reasonably aware the property was going to be 
unoccupied, meaning NFU were unable to review the policy and add any endorsements or 
make changes considering this. So, he didnt think NFU had acted unfairly and he didnt 
think they needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree. He thought NFU were reasonably aware he had another property being 
used as his main residence on the same insurance policy. And so, he didnt think he was 
required to make NFU aware the property would be unoccupied. Our investigator considered 
this information and requested for a copy of the call where the policy was re-keyed. Having 
listened to this, our investigator was satisfied that Mr S had informed NFU he was residing 
permanently at the property in question and was intending to do so going forward. So, our 
investigator maintained their view that NFU had acted fairly based on the information 
available to them at the time.
Mr S continued to disagree. And he maintained his belief that NFU were reasonably aware 
that the property wasnt his main residence and so, would be unoccupied for the foreseeable 
future. As Mr S disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the upset this complaint has had on Mr S. I appreciate Mr S took 
out the insurance policy with NFU to help assist him in a situation such as the one he found 
himself in. So, when his claim was declined, I can understand why Mr S would be left feeling 
both upset and frustrated. I can also appreciate how the frustration may have been made 
worse due to the exclusion NFU have relied upon, as travelling was more difficult around the 
time the leak occurred due to COVID-19 restrictions that Mr S had no control over.
But for me to say NFU should overturn their decision and accept the claim or cover the costs 
Mr S has incurred already to repair the damage, I first need to be satisfied theyve done 
something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied that they failed to act in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy Mr S held when they declined the claim. Or, if I think they did act 
within these, that they acted unfairly when doing so. And in this situation, I dont think thats 
the case.
And before I explain why Ive reached this decision; I think it would be useful for me to 
explain how and what Ive been able to consider. Its not mine or our services role to re-
underwrite the complaint. So, I wont be speculating on how I would or wouldnt have settled 
the claim. Instead, Ive considered the actions NFU have taken and decided whether I think 
these actions, and the reasoning behind them, was fair and in line with the approach we 
expect insurers to follow in similar circumstances.  
Ive seen the policy schedule and accompanying information sent to Mr S when the 
insurance policy was incepted in October 2020. And under the peril Mr S claimed on, 
referring to water leaking from or frozen in any domestic installation or appliance, it states 
that Damage caused while your home is unoccupied isnt insured.
And within the policy definitions, unoccupied is defined as when the home is insufficiently 
furnished for normal occupation for more than 14 days or furnished but not used to provide 
overnight accommodation for you or any visitor with your permission for more than 60 
consecutive days. It's not in dispute that the property was furnished, so I wont discuss that 
aspect of the exclusion any further. 
But its also not in dispute that the property wasnt used to provide overnight accommodation 
for more than 60 days before the leak was identified. Mr S has confirmed that the last time 
the property had been used for an overnight stay was in December 2020, which is three 
months and more than 60 days before the leak was identified.
So, I think NFU acted within the terms of the policy when classifying Mr S property as 
unoccupied. And because of this, I think they acted within the terms of the policy when 
declining the claim, as an unoccupied property wasnt insured for any claim involving a leak. 
But as I explained earlier in the decision, Ive also thought about whether I think NFU were 
fair to rely on, and apply, this exclusion.
Mr S doesnt think NFU were, as hes explained he was unable to travel to the property to 
stay in it overnight due to the COVID-19 travel restrictions in force at the time. I can see NFU have considered this but felt staying at the property for the purposes of the insurance policy 
wouldve been deemed as essential travel and so, NFU felt Mr S couldve prevented the 
property being deemed as unoccupied.
Ive looked at the COVID-19 restrictions that were in place around the time of the leak, in 
both Scotland and England considering Mr S wouldve needed to travel from one of his 
properties in England to the property in question which is located in Scotland.
And in both Scotland and England, there were travel limitations in force, due to COVID-19. 
But in both sets of guidance, I think its made reasonably clear that travel was still permitted 
if it was for a reason deemed essential.
In Scotland, travel in connection with the maintenance of a property the person owns was 
deemed a valid reason to travel. And in England, travel was permitted where an individual 
needed to leave home to fulfil legal obligations. As Mr S had a contract of insurance in place 
with NFU, I think it could be seen as a legal obligation to ensure the terms of the contract are 
met. So, I do think Mr S wouldve been able to travel to the property and stay overnight, to 
ensure the property was maintained and to ensure he met the terms of the policy.
Further to this, Mr S has confirmed both he and his family travelled to the property on 
several occasions during 2020, when COVID-19 restrictions of differing scales were in place. 
In particular, Mr S confirmed the last time he visited the property was in December 2020. So, 
for completeness, Ive also considered the restrictions that were in place in that month, when 
Mr S did travel. And while the restrictions within England and Mr S area were slightly more 
relaxed, the area the property is located in Scotland still had the same travel restrictions in 
force that were in force in the 60 days before the leak was identified. 
So, I dont think I can be satisfied that the COVID-19 restrictions changed between 
December 2020 and March 2021 in such a way that meant Mr S had no way of travelling to 
the property to ensure it didnt remain unoccupied with no overnight stay for over 60 days. 
And because of this, I dont think Im able to say NFU have acted unfairly when deciding to 
apply the exclusion and decline the claim. Because of this, I dont think NFU need to do 
anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. And I recognise Mr S feels NFU 
were reasonably aware the property would be unoccupied for periods of time as it wasnt his 
main residence. But I dont think this alters the fact Mr S left the property unoccupied for over 
60 days, whatever the intended use of the property as either a main residence or a 
second/holiday home. In either event, the same unoccupancy exclusion would apply, and its 
not disputed that the property was unoccupied without an overnight stay for over the 60-day 
period.
So, while I recognise this decision leaves Mr S at a financial loss for the repair needed to 
rectify the leak and the damage it caused, I dont think I can say NFU have done something 
wrong that means they should be responsible for the covering the costs of this.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint about The National Farmers 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 Josh Haskey
Ombudsman