DRN-2344599
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2007 
alongside a loan. Mr B says Black Horse Limited mis-sold that PPI policy. 
I know that Mr B had two loans with Black Horse. Just to be clear, this decision is about the 
borrowing he took out in February 2007 only. I understand the other loan is being or has 
been dealt with separately. 
What happened
Mr B took the loan out to help him buy a motorbike. The background and circumstances 
leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Bs circumstances at the time of the sale as 
well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and exclusions of cover arent materially disputed. 
So I havent repeated all of that information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Black Horses offer 
to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission 
and profit share Mr B paid was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Black Horse should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Black Horses offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are set out 
below. 
It looks as though Mr B applied for the loan during a face to face meeting, but that PPI was 
sold to him a little while afterwards by telephone. I dont have a call recording, which isnt 
surprising given how long ago the cover was sold. But I have been given a call script, so I 
know how the call should have gone at the point of sale. And Ive also thought carefully 
about what Mr B told us about the sale when deciding whats most likely to have happened. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Black Horse would have made it clear to Mr B 
that he didnt have to take the cover out if he didnt want it. As I said, hed already made the 
loan application before the PPI was sold, so I think hed have known they were separate 
financial products. And I can see that the Black Horse representative was prompted to tell Mr 
B that his loan had been agreed before they attempted to sell him PPI. So I dont think hed 
have thought the cover was a condition of the borrowing. On that basis, I think Mr B would 
have known he could refuse the cover if he didnt want it. 
Black Horse recommended the PPI to Mr B, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
And the evidence about Mr Bs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
I can see that if hed had to make a claim on the policy, Mr Bs repayments would have been 
covered for up to 24 months if he was off sick from work. The balance would have been 
cleared in full in the unfortunate event of his death. 
Mr B told us that he didnt have any contractual sick pay from work and he had no other way 
to meet his loan repayments if he became unwell.  So I can see the cover could have been 
helpful to him if he couldnt work. I know Mr B has some health problems now, but I 
understand he was in good health when the cover was sold. So I dont think he would have 
been affected by any of the policys exclusions around medical conditions. I havent seen 
anything unusual about Mr Bs circumstances that would have stopped him from being able 
to make a successful claim if he needed to. So all in all, I think the cover probably was 
suitable for his needs. 
Even so, Black Horse still had to give Mr B enough information about the cover so he could 
decide for himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. I accept its possible the 
information Black Horse gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But 
Ive found that he chose to take it out, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. The cover 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr B as I concluded above, nor too dissimilar to what he 
reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was most likely given. It also 
looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it could have been useful for him if something 
went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr B would have declined the cover had Black 
Horse given him more or better information about it. 
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back problems and excluded 
claims for mental health conditions, in light of Mr Bs circumstances at the time of sale and 
despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for 
him. So I think he would have still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
The representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Black Horse should have disclosed the poor value and explained 
the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Black Horse doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Black Horse should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Black Horses offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Black Horse didnt tell Mr B about the high levels of commission and profit share he paid in 
this case. So taking into account: 
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Black Horse and Mr B was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Black Horse didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit 
share in this case 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipI dont think Black Horse acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
The representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint including 
the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 
on the complaint.
In summary, it was argued Mr B should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Black Horse failed to tell Mr B about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid; the low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It was submitted that 
these things meant the policy was poor value, and I should find that Mr B wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission. It was further submitted 
that Mr B should receive a refund of all the premiums paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, at this stage, my role as 
an ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by Black Horse not disclosing the high level of 
commission before the policy was sold.
I am also mindful of the following: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by 
the consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, 
plus interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose 
the level of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order 
which, in my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under 
section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness.  
For the reasons set out above, I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude 
that the policy wouldnt have been purchased but for the failure to disclose the level of commission. I think it was fair for Black Horse to calculate compensation in line with the 
FCAs guidance and return some of the money Mr B paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr B 
with the policy Ive concluded above would still have been taken out if Black Horse had done 
everything it should have done, but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Black Horses payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As Black Horse has already paid Mr B compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should 
do anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award for this 
part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Black 
Horse Limited should pay Mr B an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable. As Black 
Horse Limited has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not require it to take any 
further action in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman