DRN-3105747
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly 
refused to pay a refund of his motor insurance premium for a period his car was off the 
road.
What happened
Mr C insured his car with LV. It suffered a major engine failure and needed to go into a 
garage to have the engine rebuilt. Mr C said the car was off road and undriveable for 
140 days. He asked LV to pay him a pro rata refund, of £575.32, of his premium for the time 
his car was off the road. LV refused. But it did make him a payment of £124.98 from its 
Green Heart Scheme.
Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into it. He didn't think LV needed to do anything else. Mr C didn't agree so his complaint's 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his correspondence with LV and us Mr Cs made a number of points. I've considered 
everything on file carefully. But in this decision I don't intend to address each and every 
issue raised and instead will focus on the key issues at the heart of Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C doesn't think it's fair that LV has continued to take a premium from him while his car 
was off the road, in a garage and did not present a risk to LV. While I understand his logic I 
don't agree that his car didn't present any risk at all to LV. It still could have suffered from 
theft or damage and his policy would have covered that. Mr C said that such a loss would 
have been covered by the garages own liability insurance so there was no risk to LV. But 
Mr C can't know for certain that the garages insurer would have covered such a claim. And 
we regularly see complaints from policyholders who believe that they are covered for a claim 
only to be told by their insurer that the claim isn't covered or that their policy has been 
cancelled or avoided. And had any of those circumstances applied, Mr Cs LV policy still 
would have covered him. So its not the case that his car presented no risk whatsoever.
Further, Mr C had the option to cancel his policy if he didn't wish to leave it in place and 
continue to pay for the cover. Mr Cs said that he didn't know at the time that it went in for 
repair how long that would take. I agree that's the case. But the point of insurance policies is 
to cover a policyholder for a risk that might happen in the future. It's not the purpose of the 
majority of insurance policies to look back at what actually did or didn't happen and then 
amend the premium on the basis of the reduced risk. 
I'm aware that LV made a payment to Mr C as part of its Green Heart Scheme because of 
the reduced risks to it caused by the pandemic. But, as far as Im aware, payment under that 
scheme is not something Mr Cs policy entitles him to. So the fact that LV chose to make a 
payment to him from its Green Heart Scheme doesn't mean its unfair for it to refuse to pay a 
different refund his policy doesn't entitle him to.
Also, unless he declared his car off road (known as SORN) then Mr C was required by law to 
insure it. Mr Cs argued that's not the case and SORN only applies to taxing a car. But my 
understanding is that the Road Traffic Act of 1988 requires all private vehicles that aren't 
declared SORN to be insured. So, unless Mr C had declared his car SORN, he needed 
insurance cover for it. And thats what he paid LV for.
It follows that I don't think it was unfair for LV to refuse to pay Mr C a refund of his motor 
insurance premium. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman