DRN-3568016
The complaint
Mr L complains that Nationwide Building Society have provided him poor customer service 
which has resulted in his credit file being negatively affected.
What happened
Mr L was coming to the end of his payment holiday on his personal loan with Nationwide and 
he wanted an extension to his loan, so he rang Nationwide. The call handler informed him 
that she would be able to stay on the phone while he completed this online. 
Mr L says that he informed the call handler that the form showed it was to set up a new 
personal loan, but the call handler explained to him that while it looked like a new 
application, he would have to apply for a £1 loan with a term of three months and when it 
was processed, it would be added to his loan account.
Mr L says that this resulted in his existing personal loan being reduced to three months 
instead of extending by three months and Nationwide attempted to debit approximately 
£2,500 from his current account, but Mr L was able to stop the payment. Mr L says he 
contacted Nationwide and they had promised to call him back on more than one occasion, 
but they didnt.
Mr L also says that when he transferred his current account from Nationwide to a third party 
provider, he received a text message from his new provider to explain the switch was 
completed. Mr L says he logged into his Nationwide mobile banking application and he 
couldnt see his Nationwide current account, so he believed that his Nationwide current 
account was closed.
Mr L made a complaint about what he was told about the personal loan. Nationwide partially 
upheld the complaint. They said that the original call handler had given him the correct 
information and while the call was disconnected, she attempted to call back Mr L and left a 
voicemail for him. 
Nationwide explained that due to the level of arrears on Mr Ls personal loan, his credit file 
hadnt been impacted, but if it was to be impacted while they were re-writing the loan, then 
they would remove any adverse information during this time. Nationwide apologised for him 
not being rang back, despite this being promised to him and they said the service he 
received from a call handler on 24 May 2021 was not professional as the call handler used 
inappropriate and unprofessional language. Nationwide said they would credit his current 
account with £100 compensation to apologise for the poor customer service. But Mr L asked 
for this not to be paid to him as he felt this did not reflect the impact of Nationwides errors.
As Mr L believed that his current account with Nationwide had been closed down as part of 
the switch to the third party provider, he complained about the account not being closed 
down and he said he had received nothing to confirm that the account had remained open. 
While Mr L was waiting for Nationwides response, he noticed his credit score had 
decreased as his current account showed missing payments (due to being overdrawn). Mr L 
said he was not aware there was any outstanding balance.
Nationwide did not uphold the complaint about his account not being closed. They said that 
at the time of the switch, his Nationwide current account was overdrawn by £82.82 so they 
were unable to close his account with a balance owing to them. They said his overdraft 
would need to be fully repaid before they could close his account. Mr L brought his complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator said he listened to the call where Mr L was advised he could complete the 
loan extension online. He said that the call handler talked Mr L through the online application 
until the call disconnects. Prior to the call disconnecting, our investigator said that as Mr L 
was completing the information he said £1 for three months. So, while it would appear Mr 
L had entered this information, he didnt agree the call handler told him to do so. 
Our investigator explained that the first call Mr L had with Nationwide started at 12:43 and 
lasted 19 minutes before it ended. The call handler attempted to ring Mr L back at 13:03 but 
this call was unsuccessful and only lasted 29 seconds. The next call Nationwide were able to 
locate from Mr L was with another call handler at 13:05, where Mr L explained to the new 
call handler that he was just speaking with the first call handler and now hed completed the 
application. So based on the timings involved with the phone calls he could evidence, he 
didnt believe there was another call with the original call handler.
In regards to the overdrawn balance, our investigator reviewed Mr Ls online account activity 
and could see he logged in several times after the account switch date, which Nationwide 
explained he should have been able to see the account at this time due to the fact it was still 
open with an outstanding balance. Our investigator also said that the evidenced 
communications Nationwide had with Mr L were sufficient to say he was fairly informed there 
was an outstanding balance. So our investigator concluded that no Nationwide error 
occurred and that the reporting of an overdrawn account to credit reference agencies was 
factually incorrect.
Mr L asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that he was on the phone to 
Nationwide and explained what he was doing and he wasnt corrected, so he wasnt at fault 
for what happened. Mr L said we should request an account transfer form from his new 
current account provider to see whether the start date for the switch process was to be from 
16th of the month as opposed to it being the date for the switch to be completed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has made a number of points to this service and Nationwide and Ive considered and 
read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here. As Mr L is complaining about two different events, Ill address each event 
separately below:
Extension of Mr Ls personal loan term
Ive considered what Mr L has said about the information he was told by the call handler to 
extend his loan term. Ive listened to the call. The call handler says she should be able to 
guide Mr L through the process and informs him of how to complete the form on internet 
banking and the step by step guide of how to do it. She then guides Mr L to this section.
The line is mostly quiet while Mr L navigates the form. Near the end of the call Mr L says, 
loan amount, ahh, £1 for three months  its a massive loan that is and then the call handler and Mr L laugh at this, before the line shortly disconnects thereafter. Im satisfied 
that the call handler did not at any point advise Mr L to enter what he did into the online form 
and she was unable to see what Mr L would have entered in real time. While Ive considered 
what Mr L has said about the call handler not correcting him, its likely she thought he was 
joking. I say this because they both laugh after Mr L has said about the size of the loan. Mr 
Ls loan was for more than £1. His paperwork which he would have signed electronically 
displayed a loan balance of £6,064.78 (total repayable £6,094.65) over a three month period 
and thats why Nationwide attempted to make a direct debit of £2,031.55 from his account. 
The loan paperwork did not show £1 to be repaid over three months.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr L has regarding him talking to the original call 
handler again after he had been disconnected. But as our investigator explained, the call he 
had was at 12:43 and lasted for 18 minutes and 45 seconds. When he rang Nationwide 
back, he was connected to the new call handler at 13:05. But the original call handler rang 
him back at 13:03, and as she couldnt get through to Mr L she left him a voicemail. So this 
would leave around 2 minutes in between the end of the first call/when the original call 
handler rang him back and the start of the second call. 
Mr L informs the second call handler he had just been talking to somebody and they gave 
him a phone call back, but he was still on the phone to them, so he didnt know what 
happened. Mr L tells the second call handler that he was going through the steps for a 
payment holiday which Ive done now and he wanted to confirm the date the direct debit 
would leave his account. So Im not persuaded that Mr L did speak to the first call handler 
again, when he told the second call handler he had stayed on the phone to the first call 
handler. 
So I cant hold Nationwide responsible for what Mr L input into the online form. As Ive 
already explained, the original call handler would not have been able to see what he input on 
the online form and she had explained there was a step to step guide of how to complete 
this form. So if Mr L was unsure of how to complete the form, he wouldve been able to use 
the guide to help him and the evidence suggests that he didnt speak to this call handler 
again before he completed the form based on the call times and what he told the second 
Nationwide call handler. 
Im satisfied that Mr L never intentionally input that he wanted his loan over three months as 
I agree that would make little sense based on his circumstances at the time, and he was 
clear that he wanted to extend the loan. I was pleased to see that Nationwide agreed to 
amend any adverse information about the loan, based on what happened with re-writing the 
loan. 
Overdrawn balance
Ive considered what Mr L has said about switching his account from Nationwide to a third 
party provider and he was not able to see this account online, so he thought the account was 
closed. Nationwide have provided his online activity which shows he logged into his online 
banking after his account was opened elsewhere and while it shows that his accounts were 
displayed, it doesnt give me a screenshot of exactly which accounts were displayed, so Im 
unable to say one way or another whether his account showed on his internet banking. But 
Im satisfied that despite this, Nationwide did inform Mr L that he was overdrawn, and Ill 
explain why.
Nationwide have said that prior to Mr L being switched over to paperless statements, he was 
getting paper statements prior to April 2021. Ive seen a copy of his March statement which 
is addressed to his registered address. This shows that Mr L entered an overdraft on 16 
February 2021. In addition to this, Nationwide have provided evidence that they sent a negative balance letter to his registered address in February 2021 and they have provided 
evidence that they sent a text to Mr L, to his registered mobile telephone number, on 21 
March 2021, which confirmed at that time he was £83.34 overdrawn on his account. 
Ive considered what Mr L has said about what his account transfer form from his new 
current account provider would have shown regarding the date of the switch. But Nationwide 
would not be responsible for his account switch being completed. They would not be able to 
close down the account if there was an overdrawn balance. And because his account was 
overdrawn and Nationwide told Mr L several times about this, then I cant agree that they 
have made an error in not closing his account. If Mr L has concerns about how his switch 
was completed by his new bank, he should contact them to discuss this and make a 
complaint with them if he wishes to do so. But this is not something I can look into now, 
based on the complaint Mr L has brought to this service.
Ive considered the service Mr L received from Nationwide. While Im not persuaded he 
received poor service on 22 April 2021 when he completed the online form, Nationwide have 
admitted that he didnt receive a call back from them when he was promised a call back on 
more than one occasion. Nationwide have offered him compensation of £100 to reflect the 
impact this would have had on him. Im satisfied this is fair. I say this as it would have been 
frustrating for Mr L to wait for a call back and not receive one. This would inconvenience him 
as he would need to contact Nationwide again. This is broadly in line with what I would have 
awarded him for poor customer service if Nationwide had not offered him compensation for 
this. So it follows that Nationwide should pay Mr L the compensation that they offered him, 
but I dont require them to do anything else.
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr L £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman