DRN-3604989
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about what happened when they asked National Westminster Bank 
Plc to help them with their mortgage, during a period of financial difficulties. 
What happened
This complaint is made by Mr and Mrs G, but Mr G has taken the lead in discussing these
issues with our service. He told us that he lost his job and salary at the beginning of 2021.
Since then he has made as many mortgage payments as he could, but he said his money
ran out in July 2021.
Mr G said he contacted NatWest to discuss his situation, and asked it to temporarily move
the mortgage onto interest only until his finances improve. He said he could afford to pay the
interest on the outstanding amount owed, and to pay arrears over 12 months. Or, if that
wasnt possible, Mr G wanted NatWest to extend the term of the mortgage, which would then
reduce the monthly payment to something that he could afford. Mr G said he could afford
just over £1,000 per month if he reached an arrangement with his unsecured creditors.
Mr G said he discussed these problems with a debt management charity (DMC) which told
him to talk to NatWest. But every time he did so, NatWest told him to talk to the DMC again,
and the DMC then just told him again to approach NatWest.
Mr G said NatWest wouldnt help him. It just said he wasnt eligible for an interest only
mortgage because he didnt earn enough. And he was too old for NatWest to extend the
term of his mortgage, as that would mean lending past his 70th birthday.
Mr G said he wanted to just pay the interest for a short time and get the existing arrears
down, until he found another job. He told us about the income he receives from pensions,
and said he could use this to make payments.
NatWest said it wouldnt consider a temporary change to interest only repayments as that
wasnt something it offered when someone is in financial difficulties, doesnt meet its
ordinary lending criteria for an interest only mortgage, and doesnt have a suitable
repayment vehicle in place. NatWest would consider a term extension if that was in the best
interests of the customer, but it said Mr G was allowed a maximum term extension to age 70,
and he was already on this.
NatWest also said that it had completed an income and expenditure affordability assessment 
on what it could offer, and that left a deficit.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said NatWest had followed
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) guidance in allowing Mr and Mrs G a further partial
payment deferral, after their six month payment holiday (granted under pandemic
arrangements) ended in December. NatWest then wanted to do a review to see if Mr and
Mrs G could afford their payments.
Our investigator noted that at this time, Mr and Mrs G were paying around £800 a month
towards their unsecured debts. But our investigator said that a mortgage is a priority debt.
Unsecured debt payments should be suspended first. He said that was why NatWest kept
referring Mr and Mrs G back to the DMC. He didnt think that was unfair.
Our investigator said a temporary change on this mortgage to interest only is essentially a
long-term payment arrangement for 12 months. And he didnt think it would be fair for
NatWest to refuse that, just because Mr and Mrs G didnt meet NatWests criteria for a
permanent switch to an interest only mortgage. But because Mr and Mrs G hadnt followed
the DMCs advice, and were more than three monthly payments in arrears, he didnt think it
was unfair that NatWest turned them down for a payment arrangement.
Our investigator said hed looked at how much money Mr and Mrs G would have had after
any twelve month interest only period, and he thought that they would still have found
themselves in a similar position after this. So he didnt think that would be a long-term
solution, and it may have left Mr and Mrs G in a worse situation.
Mr and Mrs G said NatWest turned down an offer of £1,000 a month. Our investigator said
NatWest has an obligation to ensure that any agreed payment arrangement would leave Mr
and Mrs G with money for essential living and wouldnt put them in further financial difficulty.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. Mr G replied on behalf of them both. He explained what
happened when he lost his job, and the effect this had on him. He said the DMC wasnt able
to take on his case, because NatWest wouldnt reduce his monthly payment. He said hed
never been interested in the £150 of compensation that NatWest had offered. He needed
some sort of compromise or long term planning. And he said there had never been anything
on the table that represented a long term solution.
Mr G also said the DMC hadnt instructed him to contact unsecured creditors, although it had
said he should prioritise his mortgage. He said he was only making the minimum payments
on his credit cards. And he thought he and Mrs G should have been given more credit for
paying their mortgage interest every month, plus a small amount to reduce the arrears.
Mr G repeated that if NatWest had given him a figure it would accept as a monthly payment
then he could place suspensions on all his remaining unsecured debts. He felt he was left
with no option but to pay the loan and two credit cards, at least until NatWest had reached a
compromise with them on a reduced monthly mortgage payment. And he said if he had
reduced or suspended his unsecured debts he would have been able to pay the additional
£1,000 hed offered.
Mr G felt NatWests qualifying criteria for an interest only mortgage were unfair and
unjustifiable. He said that would completely exclude any ordinary homeowner from applying
for such a mortgage. And he said an age limit of 70 on making mortgage repayments was at
worst discriminatory and at best didnt take into account the many hard working people of
pensionable age, who have no intention of retiring or stopping work.
Mr G said his pensions would provide an income that would continue past the age of 70, so 
he wanted to know where NatWest had taken this into consideration.
Mr G told us he had now started the process of contacting all of his unsecured creditors.
Our investigator said he was sorry to hear what a difficult time Mr G had experienced, but he
didnt change his mind.
Mr G continued to disagree. And he told us he had now reached an arrangement with his
unsecured creditors. He said the DMC was waiting for another pension to become payableto Mr G, and then it would set him up with a monthly payment that could be in place for
several years, until all his debts were settled.
Our investigator suggested Mr G should also talk to NatWest again, and he didnt need to
wait for this additional pension to do that. Our investigator said it wasnt our role to negotiate
or suggest an affordable monthly payment - thats not what we do. He said NatWest was
unable to take Mr Gs word that he could reach agreement with the unsecured creditors and
then pay £1,000 without seeing evidence of this. That wouldnt be responsible lending.
Mr and Mrs G wanted their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so this case was
passed to me for a final decision.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Ill set out a short timeline here, and note my views at each point.
Following a six month payment holiday, in December 2020, Mr G told NatWest that he 
might not be able to make Januarys payment. Later that month, Mr G told NatWest hed 
lost his job, he had interviews lined up for January 2021 so needed some breathing 
space. NatWest arranged for a call back to go through an income and expenditure 
assessment at a later stage. It did that, and it understood then that Mr and Mrs G had a 
monthly surplus of around £258 without their mortgage payment. So, NatWest agreed to 
accept £258 a month for three months, starting in January 2021.
At this point, I think that NatWest was trying to assist Mr and Mrs G, with what both it 
and they hoped would be a short term problem, while Mr G was looking for work. I think 
thats both fair and reasonable.
In late March, Mr G told NatWest that hed set up his own consultancy business, and 
things were initially going well. Mr and Mrs G made what appears to be the full monthly 
payment for April, May and June 2021. So at this point, I dont think NatWest was aware 
that Mr and Mrs G were still having problems. I dont think it was unreasonable for 
NatWest to accept these payments, or not to offer further support at this point.
But this consultancy doesnt appear to have generated the hoped-for income, because 
Mr G told us that by July, his funds had run out. I can see that at this point, Mr G was 
asking for an interest only mortgage. He said then the DMC had helped him to reduce 
his outgoings somewhat. But it has since transpired that Mr G hadnt yet written to his 
unsecured creditors to reduce his payments to them. He says there wasnt any point in 
doing this until NatWest came up with a reasonable offer.
In August, Mr G considered whether to reduce the mortgage arrears below three 
months, as NatWest had consistently said it couldnt help if his arrears were over this 
amount. But NatWest still didnt think it would be able to help him. It checked the 
couples income and expenditure again then, and said they still had a deficit even if they 
completely stopped payments to unsecured creditors. NatWest understood that Mr G 
thought he could pay £850 a month, but it said that because he was paying his 
unsecured creditors, that would still leave him in deficit by £388 per month.
Mr G has continued to pay the interest on this mortgage every month, and says this is 
evidence he can afford this payment. I dont think I can accept this alone is evidence of affordability, as some of the more recent payments appear to have been made on a 
credit card, so I cannot see if those have been paid back. And, most importantly, I 
wouldnt expect NatWest to just assume Mr and Mrs G could afford this amount.
I understand that Mr G has now sought to reach agreements with his unsecured 
creditors. I hope this has proved possible for him.
Mr G has consistently said he wanted NatWest to decide how much it would accept, 
then he could reduce his other, unsecured debts in line with this. But I think the advice 
Mr G had received from the DMC was that this process works the other way around. Mr 
and Mrs G needed to reduce their overall outgoings, and they had to start with their 
unsecured debts. 
Its only once they had done this, that NatWest would be able to see whether it could 
offer any support which they would be able to afford.
Mr G has criticised the reasons that NatWest gave for refusing to make concessions on 
their mortgage. He says these are unfair, and possibly discriminatory.
I dont think that NatWest should have turned Mr and Mrs G down for a short-term 
change to an interest only mortgage because they wouldnt meet the requirements for a 
permanent switch to this type of mortgage. And it ought not to have turned down a term 
extension for Mr and Mrs G without being clear with Mr G that it had considered the 
specifics of their situation. But unfortunately, I dont think either of those conclusions 
helps here. Thats for two reasons.
Firstly, whatever my conclusions on the reasoning that NatWest gave, I would still say 
the same as our investigator - that I would not expect NatWest to accept a significant 
reduction in payments to a secured debt, when Mr and Mrs G were still meeting their full 
loan payments and making their minimum credit card payments.
And secondly, I can see that NatWest did look closely at Mr and Mrs Gs income and 
expenditure. Mr G has also shared with us the details he gave to the DMC. And I dont 
think that there was an option for NatWest to provide a solution here which it has 
ignored, or wrongly failed to offer Mr and Mrs G.
Although I appreciate that Mr G may well disagree with me on this, on his current 
income, it didnt look like the couple could afford the sorts of changes NatWest might 
make over the longer term. And it does appear to have set this out for them. I wouldnt 
expect NatWest to change Mr and Mrs G to an interest only mortgage in the long term, if 
they didnt have a way to pay off the capital at the end.
And I would only expect NatWest to make changes for the short term, if it has good 
reason to expect things will then have changed. I dont think Mr Gs one additional state 
pension provided the scale of change that would then be needed, and I think that 
NatWest was already aware that Mr Gs attempts to get a new job hadnt borne fruit.
I do think NatWest hasnt communicated well with Mr and Mrs G at times. But Im sorry 
to have to tell Mr and Mrs G that I dont think clearer and more helpful advice from 
NatWest would have changed the fundamentals of their position.
NatWest has paid Mr and Mrs G £150 for poor service when it delayed in responding to 
them. I do think that NatWest has provided poor service at points, for the reasons Ive 
explained, but I think this provides a fair and reasonable response to that. So I dont think it has to do more than this. And because of that, although I know Mr and Mrs G will 
be disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I do hope that Mr and Mrs G have now been able to substantially reduce their outgoings 
on their unsecured debts. And, like our investigator, I would also encourage them to 
discuss their position further with NatWest once this is done.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
NatWest replied to say that it agreed with my decision. Mr and Mrs G didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has offered any additional evidence or argument in this case, and I havent 
changed my mind. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision above, Ill now 
make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman