DRN-1380121
The complaint
Mrs F complains about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) handled 
her home insurance claim.
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs F made a claim on her home insurance policy with Lloyds for an escape of 
water. The water tank in her loft had leaked and caused extensive damage throughout her 
home, which then needed to be dried out and repaired.
Lloyds inspected the damage and accepted the claim shortly after it was made. It took a 
couple of weeks for the property to be dried out and a drying certificate was issued on 1 May 
2019. Lloyds arranged for contractors to begin repairs to the property on 16 May 2019 and 
this was due to be completed by 23 May 2019.
Mrs F contacted Lloyds on several occasions throughout the claim to say the workmanship 
in her property was poor and she says the plastering had to be done four times before it was 
completed to an acceptable standard. And she says the painting in her property had to be 
redone as the finish was poor. She also says that her furniture had to be moved while the 
works were ongoing and that this meant her, and her daughter had to live and eat in one 
room for the duration of the claim. She believes she should have been offered alternative 
accommodation throughout this time.
Lloyds agreed with Mrs Fs concerns and offered her £475 compensation for the issues she 
had experienced while the claim was ongoing.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, he agreed that Lloyds 
handling of this claim fell far below the standards he would expect but he thought the 
compensation offered was enough for the issues Mrs F had experienced.
Mrs F didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same reasons.
Theres no dispute between the parties that this claim wasnt handled as well as it should 
have been. And from the information Ive seen, it seems that the claim has now been 
finalised and the works on the property have been completed. So the only thing left for me to 
decide is whether the compensation offered in this complaint is enough.
Mrs F says Lloyds should have offered her alternative accommodation and that it was 
particularly inconvenient having to live in one room of the property with her daughter while 
the works were going on, which ended up taking a lot longer than expected  around two 
months. Mrs Fs policy says it will only provide alternative accommodation where the 
property in uninhabitable and I havent seen any evidence to suggest thats the case. Although I can appreciate that this would have been uncomfortable for Mrs F and her 
daughter.
The works went on for longer than expected  taking more than an extra month to complete 
due to the repeated poor workmanship. And I agree this must have been frustrating for 
Mrs F and caused her unnecessary distress and inconvenience. But I have also considered 
that the claim appears to have been completed within two to three months overall, including 
the time it took Lloyds to dry out the property and due to the extent of the works, there 
always would have been some inconvenience caused to Mrs F and her daughter. So taking 
this into account, I think the unnecessary delays caused to Mrs F were just over a month. 
And while I do think it must have been very inconvenient and uncomfortable to live in the 
property for this amount of time, I also think Lloyds acted relatively quickly to correct the 
errors when it was made aware of them.
I have also seen that there was some confusion around whether the carpets in the property 
would be replaced or whether they would be cleaned. But this seems to have been due to 
Lloyds considering whether it would economically viable to clean the carpets or whether it 
should just replace them, which seems reasonable in the circumstances. However, I do think 
Lloyds could have explained this better to Mrs F, so she was aware of the issues and what 
was happening with her claim.
Lloyds has acknowledged that this claim was handled poorly and that the workmanship from 
its contractors wasnt of an acceptable standard, which caused Mrs F unnecessary trouble 
and upset. But taking everything into account  and for the reasons outlined above  I think 
the compensation Lloyds has already offered of £475 adequately reflects the distress and 
inconvenience its errors have caused Mrs F. From the information I have seen, it seems that 
Lloyds has already paid this to Mrs F, so I dont think it needs to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman