DRN-3361665
The complaint
Miss A complains that Capital one (Europe) plc lent irresponsibly when it approved her credit 
card and later increased her credit limit. 
What happened
In June 2018 Miss A applied for a credit card with Capital One. The application said Miss A 
was a tenant, working and earned £37,000 a year. Capital One completed a credit search 
and says it found Miss A owed around £1,600 to other businesses. Capital One approved 
Miss As application with a credit limit of £750. 
In October 2018 Capital One increased Miss As credit limit to £1,750 and in August 2019 it 
was increased to £2,750. Capital One says that each time it increased Miss As credit limit it 
checked her credit file and applied its lending criteria. 
Last year, Miss A complained that Capital One had lent irresponsibly by approving her credit 
card application and increasing the credit limit. Miss A has provided evidence she was in a 
Debt Management Plan (DMP) between 2014 and 2021. Miss A has also told us she had 
other credit, including a loan taken out in June 2014, that wasnt considered. 
Capital One issued a final response but didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. Capital One 
said it had applied its lending criteria to Miss As application and the credit limit increases 
and they were all correctly approved. Miss A referred her complaint to this service and it was 
passed to an investigator. They thought Capital One had dealt with Miss As complaint fairly 
and didnt ask it to take further action. 
Miss A asked to appeal and said she was in a DMP during the period in question and had 
two defaults on her credit file which were removed in May 2018. Miss A also pointed out 
shed used her credit card to withdraw cash and says it shouldve been clear to Capital One 
that she wasnt able to support further borrowing. As Miss A has asked to appeal, her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than Miss A 
and Capital One. And Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every 
single point made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent  Ive reviewed all the information provided by both parties. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Capital One had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Miss A could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The 
nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various 
factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement;
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. 
Miss A says it shouldve been clear to Capital One that she wasnt able support a new credit 
card because she was in a DMP and had defaults on her credit file when she applied. But 
Miss A has confirmed the defaults were removed from her credit file in May 2018 and I note 
her application was made in the middle of June 2018  a month later. So when Miss A 
applied for the credit card no defaults remained on her credit file. Ive looked at the credit 
search results from Miss As application and can see no reference to defaults. 
Miss A has provided evidence to show she was part of a DMP at the time of her application 
and that it ran to 2021. But the credit search Capital One completed didnt find evidence of a 
DMP or debts that were part of a payment arrangement. I can see Miss A has sent evidence 
that shows a credit card she had with another business was subject to a DMP. But I have to 
take into account the information Capital One obtained when it completed credit searches. 
And the credit search information Capital One obtained didnt contain any reference to a 
DMP or debts that were subject to arrangements. Im sorry to disappoint Miss A, but Im 
satisfied Capital One wasnt aware of her DMP. 
Ive looked at each of the lending decisions in turn. In each case, Capital One took account 
of Miss As income and circumstances. I can see that the level of outstanding credit in Miss 
As name did go up between the original application and final credit limit increase. But I can 
also see that Capital One factored those debts into its lending decisions. Taking the 
information Miss A gave about her circumstances, her account history with Capital One and 
the information it found on her credit file into account, Im satisfied it did complete 
proportional checks before deciding to proceed. Im very sorry to disappoint Miss A but I 
havent found that Capital One lent irresponsibly in this case. 
Miss A has given us some very personal information about her health and has told us she 
feels Capital One shouldve taken this into account and treated her differently. Miss A has 
provided a lot of information to support what shes told us and I can understand why she 
feels Capital One shouldve done more to support her. But I have to be fair to both parties 
and I havent seen anything that indicates Capital One was aware of the health issues Miss 
A has told us about during the period in question. So whilst Id expect Capital One to offer 
support to vulnerable customers, I cant see it was aware of Miss As circumstances. Im very sorry to disappoint Miss A but Im satisfied Capital One did complete proportionate 
checks when it approved her credit card and went on to increase the credit limit. As I havent 
been persuaded that Capital One lent irresponsibly and Im satisfied it dealt with Miss As 
complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman