DRN-1089660
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy sold by 
HSBC Bank UK PLC. Mr and Mrs B say they were mis-sold such a policy in 2002. The MPPI 
only covered Mr B, in the event of him being unable to work or losing his job. Mrs B wasnt 
covered.
Background
Our adjudicator who looked at the complaint recommended that it shouldnt be upheld but Mr 
and Mrs B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
I can see the MPPI was provided free for the first six months which I assume was part of an 
incentivised offer. However, the policy was cancelled after 7 months which means Mr and 
Mrs B probably only ever paid for 1 months worth of cover.
Its unfortunate that HSBC doesnt have much information still available from the sale, but as 
the policy is from around 17 years ago this isnt particularly unusual. Businesses arent 
required to keep records indefinitely. 
Nevertheless, I think the circumstances demonstrate that what is more likely to have 
happened is that HSBC initially got Mr and Mrs Bs agreement to set up the policy and that 
they later decided it wasnt for them, so they cancelled it. In short, I think they initially 
consented to the MPPI although I accept they may not remember any of this now.
Its not clear whether this was an advised sale where HSBC would have needed to ensure 
the MPPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs B. But this doesnt really matter or alter what I think 
because it looks to me as if the cover was suitable anyway.
I say this because Mr B was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. Mr B told us he already enjoyed some 
protection from sickness through his job but I think it would have been quite moderate. His 
mortgage, on the other hand, was secured against his home, so I can at least understand 
how a policy like this could have been of use to him and Mrs B in this situation. Policies like 
this are there to help in financially difficult times and it could have paid out a monthly sum of 
£800 for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim. This is why I think the MPPI was 
suitable.
HSBC also had to make sure the information it provided was clear, fair and not misleading. I 
cant say whether Mr and Mrs B were told everything about the policy or that HSBC did everything right, but I think they would have been sent a welcome letter about the MPPI and 
I think theyd have been supplied with the policy rules and how to cancel it, which I see was 
done just after the free period ended.
Taking all the evidence into account, I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct HSBC 
Bank UK PLC to pay Mr and Mrs B any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2019.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman