DRN-3515978
The complaint
Ms P (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as
Safety Net Credit (SNC)) provided her with a credit facility she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Ms P approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in February 2016. This was a running credit
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net
amount of the customers choosing. Ms P was not advanced a payday loan.
Ms P was initially given a facility with a £300 limit on 7 February 2016. Her limit was
increased on a further nine occasions with her final increase taking Ms Ps credit limit to
£500 by September 2017.
Ms P has had some problems repaying the facility and SNC has told the Financial
Ombudsman the account was sold to a third-party collection agency in December 2020.
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Ps complaint and he though SNC shouldnt have
granted the facility. The adjudicator explained that based on SNCs credit search
results from the time it was aware that she had defaulted on 10 credit accounts.
The adjudicator concluded these defaults were likely to be recent because he could see
payments to a third-party debt collection company and these payments didnt start appearing
on Ms Ps bank transaction data until a couple of weeks before the facility was approved.
Finally, the adjudicator could see Ms P was using high cost short-term lenders and there
were regular payments for betting transactions.
Ms Ps representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment, but no further
comments were provided.
SNC disagreed with the assessment. In summary, it said:
SNC said that none of the defaults it knew about had been recorded within the 
previous two years. One of the credit reports it obtained suggested some were more 
than four years old. SNC says this shows an improving financial position at the time 
the credit was advanced.
The repayments Ms P was making to the third-party collection agencies shows that 
she was managing her debts.
SNCs affordability calculator also took the payments towards the debt collection 
agencies into account when deciding whether she had enough disposable income.
Ms Ps net spend on other credit commitments was low and while SNC was aware of 
the betting transactions, in its view, these werent a concern for it.
SNC says its product is akin to an overdraft and there isnt anything in the usage of 
the facility to suggest that Ms P wasnt using it as intended.
The adjudicator responded to SNCs concerns. He explained that the defaults were only part
of the reason why the complaint had been upheld. He said that the large payments to debt
collectors werent visible before January 2016, so it stands to reason that these were
recently set up.
It was also clear to the adjudicator that Ms P was making small repayments to the debt
collection agencies which indicated she was likely having repayment problems.
While the adjudicator partially agreed about the net spending on the gambling transactions
the overall picture that he gathered from SNCs checks was one that Ms P couldnt afford her
facility.
SNC responded, still not agreeing and requested the complaint be passed to an
ombudsman. It also, at this time provided further detailed results from its credit checks.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me and I issued a 
provisional decision. I explained why I was intending to uphold Ms Ps complaint in part, but 
not until November 2016. 
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this in italics 
and forms part of this final decision.
What I concluded in the provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the facility was provided.
To start with, Ms P wasnt given a payday loan. Instead she was provided with a credit
facility where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time.
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following the
drawdown. After 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown.
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Ms P this facility when
it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the relevant regulatory rules
in place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of
the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance.
Overall, the guidance didnt require SNC to carry out any set level of checks, but it did
require its checks to be proportionate and any checks had to consider a number of different
things, such as how much was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put
simply, the lender had to gather enough information so that it could make an informed
decision on the lending.
Throughout the lifetime that Ms P had the facility SNC maintained read-only access to her
bank statements, in order to allow SNC to monitor Ms Ps finances and to allow it to carry out
additional affordability assessments.
Finally, Ms Ps expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus
any interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid.
Therefore, when Ms Ps facility was approved for £300 SNC needed to satisfy itself that Ms
P would be in a position to make the repayment of around £20 per month, by carrying out a
proportionate check.In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Ms Ps income and expenditure because it had
read only access to her bank statements for the 90 days preceding the facility being granted.
It then used an algorithm to establish what Ms Ps income and expenditure was, after
completing these checks, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Ms P could afford the
minimum repayment towards the facility.
The adjudicator thought, the facility should be upheld from the start because SNC was
aware that Ms P had 10 defaults recorded on her credit file and shed recently starting to
make repayments to a third-party debt collection agency, which the adjudicator thought was
connected to the defaults. He also said, given the other items that Ms P was spending on
such as betting transactions that the facility shouldnt have been provided.
Ive already summarised at the start of this decision SNCs comments in relation to this.
Having considered what, it has said and following a review of the bank transaction data I
dont think I can reasonably conclude that the facility was unaffordable for Ms P and Ive
explained why below.
Firstly, SNC was aware of the 10 defaults that the adjudicator mentioned. SNC also knew
the total value of those defaults was around £7,000. But, the information SNC received from
one of the credit reference agencies shows the most recent of the ten defaults was recorded
around 32 months before the facility was granted. This, in my view is too far removed from
the start date of the facility for SNC to have been concerned that Ms P was having current
financial difficulties.
If anything, it is a sign, that around 3 years ago Ms P was likely having significant difficulties
which resulted in some of her credit accounts defaulting. But I dont think it would be fair or
reasonable to assume that Ms P may have had problems repaying this new facility because
shed had some significant repayment problems in the past. Especially in light of the amount
of credit being advanced and how those repayments were structed.
So, I dont think the defaults are sufficient to say that the facility was irresponsibly lent. But,
as the adjudicator pointed out, during the 90-day review period, SNC also saw that Ms P had
started to make repayments to a third-party debt collection company. Its likely, given the
number of monthly repayments I can see that these payments were connected to some or all
of the defaulted accounts that SNC saw in the credit file.
The fact, that these repayments appeared in the transaction data isnt in my view sufficient to
uphold the complaint from the inception of the facility. The repayments were factored into
SNCs affordability checks and they do show a willing by Ms P to repay the outstanding
debts that she owed.
I can also see that Ms P was spending some monies each month on betting transactions,
but I dont think the number, or the total value of those transactions wouldve led SNC to
conclude the facility wasnt affordable for Ms P given the other costs that SNC could see.
In my view, SNC carried out a proportionate check before the facility was approved. It knew
that Ms P income was around £1,300 from her employer. In addition, even taking into
account the betting transactions as well as the payments to the third-party collection agency
the facility wouldve still looked affordable to SNC.
Her outgoings for things such as her living costs as well as payments to the debt collectors, 
betting transactions and payments to other high cost credit providers came to around £800. 
So, SNC wouldve reasonably believed that Ms P had more than enough disposable income 
to be able to afford the repayments she was committed to making.Im, therefore, not intending to uphold the facility from the start because I think SNC made a
reasonable decision to advance it.
Monitoring the facility
Although I dont think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility, I have gone on to
think about whether there was a point in the lending relationship that showed SNC, Ms P
was likely having difficulties repaying the facility.
At the time, and during the use of the facility, SNC was regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority. The guidance and rules for credit providers has been laid out by the FCA in its
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). I think it reasonable to see what the FCA has said in
CONC and how it applies to this case.
CONC (6.7.2) SNC had to:
[A firm must] monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
And CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course,
would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like
 but CONC 1.3 makes it clear the list is not exhaustive.
So CONC sets out that SNC was required to monitor Ms Ps use of the facility and then
CONC 1.3 provides indications which could suggest that a customer was in financial
difficulty.
In addition to this, SNC has a good indication of Ms Ps actual financial position, because
throughout the time of her having the facility it had read-only access to her bank account so
it had a good idea of her income and outgoings.
When looking at what happened after the facility was approved, Ive considered each time a
credit limit increase was applied, to see whether the increase was affordable. Ive then gone
on to consider the overall lending relationship. But I only needed to consider a review up to
November 2017, because after this date SNC had frozen Ms Ps account.
In order to see whether I think it was fair to allow Ms P to continue to drawdown, Ive
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of
those payments and then when Ms P returned for further borrowing. After all, if Ms P was
drawing down similar sums within days of SNC taking a payment from her account this ought
to have indicated that SNC was causing her to once again borrow the funds that SNC had
just taken.
By monitoring the facility  as it was required to do, SNC wouldve realised that Ms P would
typically repay her facility in full, and then shed then start to draw back up towards available
credit limit. In addition to this, there are indicators, that Ms P was having to borrow from SNC
in order to meet her other commitments to other high cost credit providers for example the
repayment to a high cost loan provider in November 2016  shortly after a further credit was
received.
When considering all of the information SNC had available to it about Ms Ps circumstances
along with the payments SNC was collecting each month, I think by 28 November 2016, it
was clear that the facility had become unsustainable - and simply collecting the full (or
almost the full) outstanding balance on the account and then allowing Ms P to once again
borrow the funds that had been recently collected was detrimental to her financial situation.But instead of doing this SNC allowed Ms P to continue to use the facility.
By now, Ms P had been using the facility for almost a year, and there wasnt an appreciable
time that she wasnt indebted to SNC.
At this time, I think SNC wouldve also seen that Ms P was still making repayments to other
high cost short term credit providers. And Ms P was still spending on betting transactions
each month. In addition to this, the repayments to the third-party debt collector had actually
decreased since the turn of the year. Ms P starting by paying the company £60 but by
November 2016, Ms P was repaying them £20 for the same number of accounts  this would
indicate that Ms P was having difficulties because the third party debt collector had likely
accepted that she couldnt afford to continue to make payments of £60 per month. After all, if
she was able to afford more, why would the third party accept less.
Finally, in October 2016, Ms P had a number of retuned direct debt payments, which to me,
shows Ms P was having problems manging her finances.
So, when SNC further allowed Ms P to drawdown on the facility, she had demonstrated that
she wasnt using the facility as SNC had intended, she was quickly borrowing down and
repaying the facility in the same month, and therefore was in effect taking multiple payday
loans because she wasnt benefiting from or making use of the interest free period.
When considering all of the information SNC had available to it about Ms P circumstances
along with the payments SNC was collecting each month, I think by 28 November 2016 it
was clear that the facility had become unsustainable - and simply collecting the full
outstanding balance on the account and then allowing Ms P to once again borrow the funds
that had been recently collected was detrimental to her financial situation.
Overall and having thought about everything I think that SNC shouldve proactively
intervened and contacted Ms P to arrange for her to repay what she owed within a
reasonable period of time. Ive outlined below what Im intending to ask SNC to do in order to
put things right for Ms P.
Response to the provisional decision 
Both SNC and Ms P were asked to respond to the provisional decision with any further 
comments or evidence for my consideration as soon as possible, but no later than 
3 June 2022. 
Ms Ps representative told us that Ms P accepted the findings made in the provisional 
decision. 
SNC also responded and it made an offer to settle the complaint in line with the proposed 
recommendation. It has explained, that after removing the unpaid interest on the outstanding 
balance, refunding the interest, adding 8% simple interest and deducting tax it would pay
Ms P £661.89. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both SNC and Ms P accepted the findings I laid out in the provisional decision. So, I see no 
reason to depart from the findings that I have made. I still think SNC shouldnt have allowed Ms P to drawdown on the facility after 
28 November 2016 because by this point in time it was clear the facility was no longer 
sustainable for Ms P. 
Ive outlined below what SNC needs to do in order to put things right for Ms P. 
Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
A. Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from 28 November 2016.
B. Treat all payments Ms P has made towards the account since the start of the facility 
as though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C. If at any point Ms P wouldve been in credit on her account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D. If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then SNC should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms P.
E. SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Ms Ps credit file 
about this facility from 28 November 2016.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Ms P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Ps 
complaint in part.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman