DRN-4370232
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the terms of an offer from Co-op Funeral Plans Limited to buy 
discounted plans after their previous provider went into administration.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had plans with a company Ill call S. When Mr and Mrs G bought their plans, 
the sale and administration of pre-paid funeral plans wasnt subject to compulsory regulation. 
But this changed in July 2022, when it became a requirement for firms in the industry to be 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. S originally applied to become regulated, but 
later withdrew its application, going into administration in March 2022. This left Ss 
customers in an invidious position.
In September 2022, Ss administrators wrote to Ss customers providing details of two 
regulated funeral plan providers that were offering discounted plans to Ss customers. Mr 
and Mrs G subsequently received further information from the providers.  
Co-op set out what would be available, but explained the plans werent purchasable 
immediately. Potential customers would receive further contact when they were. In Spring 
2023, Co-op wrote again to Mr and Mrs G saying the plans were now available. 
Mr and Mrs G contacted Co-op to question a limitation regarding which crematoria could be 
used. They wanted to use a local crematorium, whereas the nearest one available under the 
Co-op plan was approximately 50 miles away. Mr and Mrs G were told this wasnt possible, 
so complained. Co-op didnt uphold their complaint, saying the discounted plan was only 
available with the limitation on which crematoria could be used.
  
Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy so came to the Financial Ombudsman Service. To resolve 
matters they wanted to be able to buy discounted plans but use a local crematorium. Our 
investigator didnt uphold their complaint. She was satisfied Co-op had given Mr and Mrs G 
clear information to allow them to make an informed choice. As Mr and Mr G disagreed, their 
complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will be unwelcome news for Mr 
and Mrs G and Im sorry about that. Ill explain my reasons. 
This is an unfortunate situation, in that Mr and Mrs G were let down by their previous 
provider. Co-op made a decision to offer discounted plans to Ss customers. But as a 
commercial firm, it was entitled to set the terms of those offers. And one of the terms was 
that, to enable the plans to be offered at a discounted price, only certain crematoria could be 
used. 
Ive seen templates of the letters sent to Mr and Mrs G. The initial letter said:
To allow us to provide these plans at a discounted price, some limitations apply, 
which includefor cremation plans, only [W] and [M] crematoria can be used.
The second letter, confirming the plans were now available to buy, reiterated the reason 
behind the limitations, further explaining:
For cremation plans, only [W] and [M] crematoria (our crematorium partners with 
sites throughout the UK) can be used (you may wish to check the location of your 
nearest [M] or [W] crematoria before buying a plan.
I understand Mr G has said he didnt want to opt into the offer from the other provider  a 
company Ill call D - when he didnt know how it would compare with Co-ops. But Mr and 
Mrs G were free to accept Ds offer, regardless of Co-ops position at the time. 
Mr G also feels Co-op shouldnt have raised hopes by writing to customers who didnt have a 
local crematorium provided by Co-ops chosen partners. I appreciate his frustration that the 
limitation means the offer didnt meet his and Mrs Gs requirements. But I dont think Co-op 
has done anything wrong in this respect. Co-ops information clearly explained the terms of 
its offer  including limitations it was entitled to set. Mr and Mrs G were free to decide if 
those terms were right for them. 
Once again, Im sorry to be the bearer of disappointing news. But Im not going to ask Co-op 
to do anything more regarding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Co-op Funeral Plans Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman