DRN-2942430
The complaint
Mr A and Miss B complain that their home insurer Gresham Insurance Company Limited 
(Gresham) unfairly declined their claim following a mugging and accused them of fraud. 
  
What happened
In November 2019 Mr A says he was mugged and his valuable watch was stolen. The crime 
was witnessed by a taxi driver. The watch was listed and insured as a specified item under 
Mr A and Miss Bs home insurance policy.
Mr A immediately reported the mugging to the police, who filed a report. He reported the 
theft to Gresham the following day.
Gresham asked their loss adjuster to look into the claim due to the high value of the item 
reportedly stolen. And because they thought it was unusual that Mr A was aware that the 
replacement cost of the watch was considerably more than the amount it was insured for.
In March 2020 the loss adjuster concluded there were five issues that needed to be 
addressed before Mr A and Miss Bs claim could be further assessed. Gresham told Mr A 
and Miss B that if it were discovered that any part of their claim was fraudulent or 
deliberately misleading, they might reject the claim and cancel the policy. They also stated 
that legal action could be taken.
Gresham voided the policy on the 27th of March 2020, backdated to 9th November 2019. 
The reason given for the voidance is that the claim was dishonest or exaggerated.
Mr A tried to address the loss adjusters concerns when he responded in April 2020. But 
Gresham still felt the claim should be declined.
In May 2020, they explained that their position wouldnt change unless they received further 
information that allowed them to reconsider their decision. They noted it would be useful if 
Mr A could get a copy of his call to the police, which he was trying to do.
Mr A complained to Gresham. He said that he acknowledged that the account hed provided 
when hed made the claim was inconsistent and exaggerated. But hed been drinking the 
night before and was unable to sleep due to the shock of the crime. He said that since then, 
hed answered all questions and provided evidence where available. But Gresham had still 
declined his claim. 
Gresham didnt uphold his complaint. But they noted that theyd contacted the police and 
would reassess the claim if they received a response confirming that the police report was 
incorrect.
Unhappy with their response, Mr A and Miss B brought their claim to this service. They 
provided access to the emergency call Mr A had made to the police. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He felt that Gresham had acted fairly and in line with their terms and 
conditions when theyd declined the claim and cancelled the policy.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view. So the complaints come to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 June 2021. It said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. Ill explain why.
From what Ive seen, there were actually only two different accounts of the mugging. The 
slightly exaggerated one when the claim was reported. And the one given to the police and 
to the loss adjuster. Gresham felt that a different account had been given to the police. But 
the emergency call recording proves that it was actually the police report of that call that was 
wrong and omitted detail.
But Gresham didnt have access to the emergency call. So I can understand why, when 
considering what they felt were three versions of the mugging together, Gresham wanted to 
carry out further investigations. 
While I acknowledge that Mr A did give two different versions of the mugging, Im not 
persuaded that he did this to gain an advantage with Gresham. 
Mr A and Miss Bs policy terms and conditions state the following:
5. Fraud
If your claim is in any way dishonest or exaggerated we will not pay any benefit under this 
policy or return any premium to you and we may cancel your policy immediately and 
backdate the cancellation to the date of the fraudulent claim. We may also take legal action 
against you.
Fraud is commonly defined as an attempt to gain a benefit that a person isnt entitled to 
receive. Its a serious allegation that can have serious consequences. This service has long 
held the view that an insurer, if alleging fraud, needs to first be very clear with the 
policyholder about the reasons it feels a fraud has occurred. And second support such an 
allegation with strong evidence. In essence, its findings must be robust and persuasive.
From what Ive seen Gresham havent done either of these things. They based their decision 
to decline the claim for fraud on very limited evidence of inconsistencies in how Mr A 
described the incident.
Gresham set out a list of inconsistencies in Mr As testimony. But they didnt say why they 
felt this meant fraud had occurred. They didnt, for example, state that they felt Mr A had 
been dishonest with a view to gaining a benefit he wasnt otherwise entitled to receive.
A list of discrepancies alone, even ones that havent been fully explained, will rarely, in the 
view of this service, be sufficient to evidence fraud. And Gresham havent provided any 
evidence to show that a fraud most likely occurred. 
The discrepancies raised by Gresham
Greshams loss adjuster asked Mr A to clarify five issues before his claim could be further 
assessed. Mr A gave explanations that were accepted for three of these issues in April 2020.  
The only remaining concerns Gresham had related to the time and circumstances of the incident. 
They said: We cannot understand how your recollection of the incident could vary when 
speaking to us, the Police and the loss adjuster unless all or part of the account was not 
entirely truthful. We also do not accept that the Police would fail to record the correct 
information provided to them, as it is not in their interest to do so. 
So Gresham asked a police contact to review the claim. The reviewer said: some things 
said to the police operator might not be on the report. He also said: I believe it's a genuine 
claim, albeit a poor police report.
The reviewer confirmed Mr A had reported the crime at the time hed told Gresham, not the 
time stated in the police report. The police operator had written the time down incorrectly. 
He also said: this has all the hallmarks of a typical robbery. We have many where groups of 
2 or 3, approach drunk males having spotted their timepieces, and they are able to distract 
them by all types of methods including shaking hands, dancing round them, hugging them 
etc and I saw this as just another of the 50+ we have a month. 
Despite what their police contact had told them, Gresham remained of the view that they 
should decline the claim for fraud. But the only remaining issues they had with the claim at 
this point were the inconsistencies in the versions of events Mr A had given. 
The emergency call recording proves Mr A stated that there were two assailants who stole 
his watch instead of the one stated in the written police report. This information ties in with 
the loss adjusters report. I think this is very important. It shows that the decision to invoke 
the fraud condition was, at least for the most part, based on a mistake.  
Considering the limited evidence that Gresham have relied on when alleging that Mr A and 
Miss B made a fraudulent claim, my view is that Gresham havent sufficiently discharged the 
burden of proof required to demonstrate fraud. As such, I consider their decision to decline 
the claim on the basis of fraud to be an unreasonable one.
Mr A and Miss B would like Gresham to reconsider their claim. Mr A would also like an 
apology for the way hes been treated. He said this has put him under a lot of stress and 
caused considerable anxiety. Hed also like any markers relating to cancelled insurance to 
be removed. Under the circumstances of the complaint, I intend to ask Gresham to do all of 
these things.
Response to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I remain of the view I set out in my 
provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I require Gresham Insurance Company Limited to carry out the following actions:Reconsider the claim for theft under the remaining terms of the policy. As they 
cancelled the policy under the fraud condition, they may need to reinstate it to allow 
the claim to be reconsidered. 
Simple interest at 8% per year should be added to any payment due (less tax if 
properly deductible) from the date of loss until the date of settlement. 
Remove any records added to internal or external databases relating to a fraudulent 
claim having been made
Apologise to Mr A and Miss B for the stress theyve caused.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Gresham Insurance Company Limited should take the actions in the 
Putting things right section above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman