DRN-4393837
The complaint
Mr H complains that Marshall Motor Group Ltd (Marshall) mis-sold him a Guaranteed Asset 
Protection (GAP) insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H bought a car on finance over a four-year term. He also took out a GAP policy which he 
later found out was for three years. Mr H complained and said the GAP policy was mis-sold 
as it wouldnt cover him for the final year of his finance agreement. Marshall responded and 
explained, at the point of sale, Mr H was provided with the full documentation setting out the 
term of the policy - and this was also confirmed in information sent to him by the insurer. 
They said the information was provided within the cancellation period so, had Mr H felt the 
product wasnt suitable for his requirements, there was an opportunity for him to cancel it 
and obtain a full refund. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H. She thought Marshall hadnt mis-sold the policy. 
Mr H disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr H will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
I understand Mr H is concerned as he was under the impression his GAP insurance was the 
same length as his finance agreement. So, he raised a complaint when he became aware 
his GAP policy provided cover for three years, but his finance was over four years  leaving 
him in a position where there was no GAP cover when entering into the final year of his 
finance agreement.  
I can see Mr H completed and signed a Compliance confirmation form  this says Mr H 
understands he has taken out a GAP policy in line with a Supplementary order form. The 
order form, which has also been signed by Mr H confirms the type and term of the GAP 
policy he bought. This describes Mr Hs GAP insurance cover as a 36-month policy. Mr H 
was also provided a document setting out the key benefits and restrictions of the GAP policy. 
This contains a table which sets out the GAP policies offered, the claims limit and the term of 
the policy. All the policies offered are either 24 or 36 months. So, I think it was made clear 
during the sales process that Mr Hs GAP policy was for a 36-month term. 
Ive also looked further to see whether the information provided during the sales process 
was reasonable for Mr H to identify the difference between the term of his GAP policy when 
compared to the term of his finance agreement  and I think it was. The compliance 
confirmation form contains a section for details of any finance arrangements. This asks for 
the term of the finance agreement, and it notes 49 months. So, in documents signed by    
Mr H at the same time, theres information about the term of his GAP policy and finance 
agreement. 
I acknowledge Mr H was under the impression the term of his GAP cover would at least 
match the term of his finance agreement. But I havent seen any information that Marshall, 
either in discussions with Mr H or in the documentation, suggested this, or that the wording 
in the documentation was presented in a manner which wouldve created that impression. I 
think the information provided was clear, fair and not misleading. And the policy booklet 
provided shows that Mr H would never have been able to take out a policy which wouldve 
covered him for the full 49-month period of his finance agreement. The policy documents 
also set out the steps Mr H needs to take to cancel his policy and confirms cancellation 
within the first 30 days will lead to a full refund of the premium. So, in addition to Marshall 
providing information clearly setting out the term of the GAP policy, providing information 
about how the term compares to the term of Mr Hs finance agreement, the information also 
clearly sets out how Mr H could cancel his policy if he felt it wasnt suitable. 
I can see Mr H has provided an invoice showing he took out allow wheel protection  and the 
invoice shows the term as being three years. He has also provided a separate 
supplementary invoice for the GAP insurance  but this doesnt refer to a term. So, Mr H 
believed the cover was four years. I acknowledge the cover for alloys is specified as three 
years in the invoice provided by Mr H but the absence of a term on Mr Hs supplementary 
invoice for the GAP policy doesnt persuade me that the information provided by Marshall 
was unclear or ambiguous. While the supplementary invoice doesnt specifically refer to the 
term three years in the same way that it does for the allow wheel cover, it also doesnt refer 
to it being four years. And the other documentation Ive referred to above, does confirm      
Mr Hs policy was for a three-year term and also that Marshall werent offering a GAP policy 
with a four year term.             
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman