DRN-2960244
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) have unfairly declined 
their legal expenses insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr B is pursuing his former employer for constructive dismissal and discrimination in the 
employment tribunal. He first raised a grievance in September 2019 in response to bullying, 
harassment and discrimination that he said had first occurred in June 2019. He was given an 
outcome on 28 October 2019, which he appealed. The outcome of his grievance appeal was 
eventually issued on 4 October 2020, at which point Mr B resigned due to the poor treatment 
and discrimination he said he had suffered.
Between June 2019 and October 2020, Mr B held two home insurance policies with different 
underwriters, both of which included legal expenses cover. The first policy was taken out in 
May 2019. It was underwritten by One Insurance (the respondent to this complaint) and 
provided cover up until May 2020. Once this cover lapsed, a second policy was then taken 
out with a different insurer in June 2019, whereby the legal expenses cover was underwritten 
by Amtrust. 
Mr B made a claim on both legal expenses policies for assistance in pursuing his former 
employer in the Employment Tribunal. However, both insurers declined the claim. Amtrust 
said that they wouldnt cover it as the insured event occurred before the policy was incepted 
in June 2020. One Insurance declined Mr Bs claim because they said the policy terms and 
conditions exclude any disciplinary, investigatory or grievance procedures within the 
company you work for, or any appeals against the outcomes of these procedures. They also 
said that Mr B had failed to report the claim within 45 days of the initial grievance, which was 
a requirement set out in the policy conditions. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint, as he didnt think One Insurance had considered the 
claim fairly. He didnt think that the exclusion applied in these circumstances and said that 
Mr Bs late notification of the claim had not prejudiced the insurers position, so there was no 
fair and reasonable basis for them to decline the claim as a result. One Insurance disagreed, 
so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below. I also ought to add that this decision is only in relation to One Insurances 
consideration of Mr Bs claim. It does not concern (and will not address) the acts or 
omissions of Amtrust, which has been considered as part of a separate complaint. 
The policy terms and conditions set out what One Insurance will cover under contract 
disputes:
We will pay costs for any dispute you have with your current or former employers at 
an Employment Tribunal.
The policy does not specifically define what is to be taken as the insured event for claims of 
this nature, and neither does it specify what will be taken as the date of occurrence. 
However, generally speaking, the insured event is considered to be the event which causes 
a claim to be made  in this case, the dispute with Mr Bs employer. So that is what I have 
taken to be the insured event in these circumstances.
In terms of the date of occurrence of the dispute, I appreciate there are various elements to it 
such as bullying, harassment, discrimination and associative discrimination with regards to 
Mr Bs daughters disabilities. Mr B first raised a formal grievance on 26 September 2019, 
but the actual breach of his employment contract/legal rights began in June 2019. So it is 
June 2019 that I consider to be the date of occurrence of the insured event in these 
circumstances, which was during the period of cover Mr B was insured with One Insurance. 
So Im satisfied that One Insurance is the appropriate insurer to respond to the claim in this 
instance as the policy was on risk at the time of the insured event. 
One Insurance have sought to rely on an exclusion clause that denies cover for Any 
disciplinary, investigatory or grievance procedures within the company you work for, or any 
appeals against the outcomes of these procedures. 
The insurer submits that Mr Bs claim is effectively him making an appeal against the 
outcome of his grievance and is therefore excluded. But while I appreciate Mr Bs dispute 
was considered as part of a grievance, that is not the legal claim he is now pursuing against 
his employer, i.e. he is not seeking legal assistance from One Insurance to pursue a 
grievance, or to appeal the outcome of one; he has already done that himself. 
Mr Bs claim now is for constructive dismissal and discrimination. This is not an appeal 
against the outcome of his grievance and is a separate legal claim in its own right. Indeed, if 
the insurer was correct in their logic that this constitutes an appeal against his grievance, 
there would be very few Employment Tribunal claims covered under the policy, as the vast 
majority of them wouldve involved the employee raising a grievance at some stage. So Im 
not persuaded the exclusion One Insurance has cited applies in these circumstances, or that 
they have declined the claim fairly in line with it. 
One Insurance has also said that Mr B has breached the condition to report the claim within 
45 days of the insured event, as they say he ought to have brought it to their attention when 
he raised the initial grievance. However, as the insurer will not doubt be aware, they cannot 
decline a claim based on a mere technicality or breach of condition unless they can 
demonstrate that the same has ultimately prejudiced their position or has somehow 
increased the loss. This has long been the fair and reasonable approach adopted by the 
service in such matters and has also been codified in statute since 2015 (see section 11 of 
the Insurance Act 2015).
So, even if I were to accept that Mr B didnt notify One Insurance within the 45-day 
timeframe, they have not been able to demonstrate that the late notification has ultimately 
prejudiced their position here. Therefore, they cannot fairly and reasonably decline the claim 
as a result of this breach of condition.  
In summary, Im not persuaded that One Insurance has declined Mr Bs claim fairly. I will 
therefore be directing it to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct One Insurance Limited to 
reconsider Mr Bs claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman