DRN-2299724
The complaint
Mrs A, who is represented by her husband, Mr A, complains that Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited failed to compensate him a for a faulty car.
What happened
In October 2018 Mrs A acquired a second-hand car costing £15,595 funded by a deposit of 
£2,700 and the balance by a hire purchase agreement. It was some three years old and had 
covered 11,000 miles.
In September 2019 Mrs A suffered a puncture and was unable to remove the wheel. She 
called out the AA and its agent couldnt take it off and the car was towed to a tyre fitter which 
also struggled to remove the wheel.
The AA report states that it couldnt repair the car and the wheel was incorrectly fitted. The 
tyre fitter confirmed that it couldnt remove the wheel and it had recommended that the car 
be taken to a main dealer. Mrs A says that she was told it would cost £1,000 to repair. 
Mrs A complained to VFS, but it said there was no evidence that the fault was present at the 
point of sale. She then brought the matter to this service where her complaint was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He said that as Mrs A had raised a complaint more than six months after the sale she had to 
demonstrate that the fault was present at the point of sale. She had explained that she had 
no way of being able to determine the fault was present until she needed to change the tyre.
He agreed the wheel nut was difficult to remove, but none of the evidence showed it was 
present at the point of sale. In the absence of sufficient evidence, on the balance of 
probabilities, he thought the problem may have developed after the point of sale.
Mr A didnt agree and sought some independent evidence, but after six months has not 
provided any and so the matter falls to me to be decided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I have every sympathy with Mrs A and I appreciate her frustration, but I dont consider I can 
uphold her complaint. I will explain why.
As our investigator has explained Mrs A has to show that the fault was present at the point of 
sale. She has told us that the tyres were the originals and she hadnt removed the wheel. It 
was assumed that the bolt had been put on incorrectly during manufacture. It is possible that 
this might be the case, but it strikes me as highly unusual.
It would seem that the bolt had been cross threaded and this is unlikely to have happened 
when the car was being manufactured. It seems more likely that something subsequent to 
that caused the problem. Mr A had indicated he was seeking additional evidence, but in the 
absence of anything further being provided I find it difficult to uphold this complaint.
I have considered that it is possible that the fault didnt happen during manufacture, but at 
some point before Mrs A acquired it, but in the absence of any supporting evidence I cannot 
safely conclude that VFS is liable for any damages. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman