DRN-1747650
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited unfairly 
declined a claim for critical illness benefit under a joint term assurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a joint term assurance policy with critical illness cover in March 2013. 
The policy provided initial cover of £103,000 which decreased over the 17 year term.
Mr H sadly suffered a heart attack in November 2018. A claim was submitted under the 
policy in February 2019. But after considering the medical evidence, Legal & General 
declined it as it said the policy definition of heart attack hadnt been met.
Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to our service. They said the definition of heart attack 
used by Legal & General in their policy wasnt fit for purpose. This was because it required a 
significant rise in cardiac enzymes (Troponins) in order for a claim to be paid. Mr H said 
Legal & General had removed this requirement from policies taken after September 2014 
and if the latter definition had been used, his claim wouldve been paid.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the definition of heart attack in Mr and 
Mrs Hs policy was consistent with the definition used across the industry at the time. He 
said the definitions were fixed when the policy was taken out and there wasnt any onus on 
Legal & General to retrospectively update policies when changes were made. The 
investigator said that Legal & General had declined the claim for two reasons, because the 
rise of Troponins wasnt high enough and because there were no characteristic 
electrocardiographic (ECG) changes. He thought this was fair based on the evidence 
provided.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept this so the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision 
on the matter. Mr H said there wasnt sufficient evidence to determine whether the Troponins 
had risen to the required level as the tests werent taken at the right time. He said he would 
provide further evidence from his doctor to this effect.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. I 
realise this will be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs H, so Ill explain why.
I should start by saying that I was sorry to hear of Mr Hs heart attack. I dont doubt that this 
has been a very stressful time, but I hope Mr H is recovering well. I also want to make it 
clear that it isnt in dispute whether or not Mr H had a heart attack. The issue here is that 
under Mr and Mrs Hs policy, cover for heart attack is based on the severity of it  as 
denoted by the specific rise in Troponins in the definition.I appreciate Mr Hs concern that Legal & General changed its definition of heart attack 
around 18 months after he took the policy out. But I dont think that means the definition in 
his policy should be disregarded. Insurers update their definitions periodically, based on 
industry guidelines or their own claims experience. The changes arent retrospective, so I 
dont think Legal & General shouldve applied the later definition when considering Mr Hs 
claim.
I would expect the definition applicable to Mr Hs policy to be in line with, or certainly no less 
favourable than, the Association of British Insurers (ABI) statement of best practice on 
critical illness insurance. When Mr and Mrs H took out their policy in March 2013, the 
applicable document was the February 2011 version. This document contains the exact 
same definition that Legal & General applied to Mr and Mrs Hs policy. So, I dont think the 
definition used here was unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy defines heart attack as follows:
Death of heart muscle, due to inadequate blood supply, that has resulted in all of the 
following evidence of acute myocardial infarction:
New characteristic electrocardiographic changes.
The characteristic rise of cardiac enzymes or troponins recorded at the following 
levels or higher: 
oTroponin T > 1.0 ng/ml
oAccuTnI > 0.5 ng/ml or equivalent threshold with other troponin I methods.
 
The evidence must show a definite acute myocardial infarction.
For the above definition, the following are not covered:
Other acute coronary syndromes including but not limited to angina.
 
Ive considered the medical evidence provided, but based on what Ive seen, I dont think 
Legal & Generals decision to decline the claim was unreasonable. There wasnt evidence of 
the required Troponin rise; the highest level recorded by Mr Hs doctors was 0.019 ng/ml, 
below the 1.0 ng/ml required under the definition.
There is also some dispute as to whether the ECGs taken showed characteristic changes. 
Although Mr Hs cardiologist wrote in his report to Legal & General that there was a new 
inferior T-wave inversion, in his discharge letter to Mr Hs GP he also wrote that there were 
no acute ECG changes. For this reason, Legal & Generals chief medical officer (CMO) 
reviewed the ECG scans taken on 3, 4 and 5 November 2018. He thought the change noted 
by Mr Hs cardiologist in the scan taken on 4 November 2018 was likely due to the ECG 
leads being reversed. He noted the scans on 3 and 5 November 2018 were within normal 
limits. So, he didnt think there were any characteristic changes. In light of the conflicting 
information from Mr Hs cardiologist, I think it was fair for Legal & General to rely on their 
CMOs interpretation of the ECG scans.
Mr H says that his Troponin T level wasnt higher because the tests werent taken at the right 
time  the second one was taken after 27 hours of presenting at the hospital, but it shouldve 
been taken sooner. I can see that Legal & General recognised this problem and took it into 
consideration when they assessed the claim. But given that it didnt think the ECG scans 
showed characteristic changes and the echocardiogram taken on 5 November 2018 didnt 
show any regional wall motion abnormality, it didnt think there was evidence of significant death to the heart muscle. And because the rise of Troponins is related to death of heart 
muscle, Legal & General didnt think it was likely that the Troponin levels wouldve been 
higher than 1.0 ng/ml, even if the second test had been carried out earlier. I dont think this 
approach is unreasonable, given how far off the reading taken after 27 hours was from the 
level required for a claim to be paid.
Mr H told our investigator he intended to provide some further evidence on the issue of 
Troponin levels from his cardiologist. However, this hasnt been provided to date. But in any 
event, I cant take any new information into account in this decision. Thats because my role 
is limited to considering whether Legal & Generals decision was fair, based on the evidence 
available to it at the time the decision was made. If Mr H does have any new evidence that 
he thinks could make a difference, he should provide this to Legal & General to consider.
Overall, I dont think Legal & Generals decision to decline the claim was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman