DRN-4217651
The complaint
Mr G complained because Sainsburys Bank Plc refused to refund him for a payment he said 
he didnt make.
What happened
On 27 November 2022, Mr G was at an outlet shopping centre. The payments which went 
through his account that day were:
- At 12.50, an undisputed £321.55 payment to a retailer;
- At 13:25, a £110 payment to a different retailer, which Ill call R. This is the payment 
Mr G is disputing;
- At 14.45, a £204 payment, also to retailer R, which Ill discuss below; 
- At 15.22, an undisputed £126.90 payment to a different payee at the centre; and 
- At 16.42, an undisputed £15.98 payment to a food outlet at the centre.
When Mr G received his statement In December, he saw the payments and contacted 
Sainsburys about the £110 payment. He explained that hed been in retailer Rs shop and 
had bought goods totalling £314. Hed paid for these by £110 in cash, and £204 on his 
Sainsburys credit card. Mr G provided the retailers receipt, which shows the total of £314, 
paid by £110 in cash and £204 by card. The date and time match those on Sainsburys 
records for the £204 payment. 
Mr G also contacted retailer R, which told him that it had other brands which used its 
payment systems, so the disputed £110 payment might have been made online, or to one of 
its other brands, but Mr G said he hadnt done so. He wanted to know what the store had 
done with the £110 cash which hed paid.
Both payments to retailer R were authorised using Mr Gs genuine card, and his correct PIN. 
The records indicated that the £204 payment had taken place at the outlet shopping centre 
where Mr G had been, but the £110 payment was listed at a different city. Mr G googled 
retailer R and contacted its branch in that city, but was told there was no £110 transaction for 
his card, and none for that amount that week.
Mr G asked Sainsburys to raise a chargeback dispute with the merchant, but Sainsburys 
didnt do so because the circumstances didnt fit the eligible chargeback codes. The £110 
payment at 13:25 couldnt go through as unauthorised, because it had been authorised 
using Mr Gs genuine card and correct PIN. Nor could it be coded as the retailer taking more 
than agreed, when Mr G had said that he hadnt agreed to a £110 transaction at all. 
The fraud team at Sainsburys considered what had happened, but didnt agree to refund Mr 
G. It wrote to tell him that it had thoroughly investigated, but had decided that there hadnt 
been any fraudulent activity. That was because Sainsburys couldnt establish how the card 
and PIN had been compromised. The card had been in Mr Gs possession, and hed 
confirmed that it hadnt been lost or intercepted at any point.
Mr G wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. He couldnt see how anyone else could 
have stolen the card, used it, and returned it to Mr G without him knowing. He didnt think the 
activity was typical of fraud, because if a third party had taken the card, hed expect to have 
seen other attempts to use the card to spend as much money as possible  and there hadnt 
been any other such attempts. The investigator also said that he didnt think Sainsburys had 
been wrong not to raise a chargeback for Mr G. That was because there wasnt a 
chargeback-valid reason, and Mr Gs PIN had been entered. The investigator thought that 
even if Sainsburys had raised a chargeback, it would have been declined.
Mr G didnt agree. He said he was very disappointed that the investigator had taken the 
stance that he had used the card with chip and PIN. He said the investigator hadnt made 
any reference to the cash payment he had made, which didnt appear to have been 
considered. He wanted to know where this cash was. He said he hadnt used the card for the 
£110 transaction and felt he had been cheated out of £110.00. Mr G asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr G thinks that the disputed £110 payment must have something to do 
with the £314 genuine transaction to retailer R.  Its a natural assumption when he paid for 
part of that transaction by £110 cash. 
However, I think its unlikely that the disputed £110 payment had anything to do with the 
£314 purchase at 14.45. Thats because the disputed payment took place over an hour 
earlier, at 13.25. When the disputed £110 payment was made at 13.25, the retailer couldnt 
have known that Mr G would, over an hour later, make a £314 purchase which hed pay for 
partly by handing over £110 cash. So even if there had been any way for a hypothetical 
dishonest shop employee to steal Mr Gs cash at 14.45 and put it through as another 
transaction on Mr Gs card, the timing just doesnt fit.
Ive seen the records which show that the disputed £110 payment was, like the other 
payments, made using Mr Gs genuine card and correct PIN. Mr Gs card wasnt lost or 
stolen, and he made undisputed transactions both before and after the disputed £110 
payment. So if anyone other than Mr G made the transaction, theyd have had to obtain his 
card after the last undisputed payment at 12.50 and before 13.25 when the disputed 
payment took place. Theyd then have had to return it to Mr G, without his knowledge, before 
14.45. 
Its unlikely a third party fraudster would have tried to return Mr Gs card in this way, and 
much more likely that theyd have kept on spending up to Mr Gs credit limit. There are no 
failed transactions, and Mr Gs credit limit was significantly above his outstanding balance at 
that point. So there would have been potential for any third party fraudster to have stolen 
much more than £110. It seems inexplicable that any third party fraudster unknown to Mr G 
wouldnt have spent what they could, and would instead have attempted the high risk action 
of returning his card to him.
As well as possessing the genuine card, any third party fraudster would also have had to 
have known Mr Gs correct PIN. He said he hadnt written this down. Ive seen no record of 
failed transactions, and there are 10,000 possible combinations of a four-digit PIN, so I cant 
see how this could have happened. Taking these factors into account, I think its more likely than not that it wasnt a third party 
fraudster unknown to Mr G who carried out the disputed transaction.
Ive also looked at the location recorded for the transaction. The records show it as a city 
which was many miles from the outlet centre where Mr G was located both before and after 
the disputed £110 payment. I agree with Mr G that it wouldnt have been practical for him to 
have carried out the undisputed 13.25 transaction, travelled to the other city, and back in 
time for the 14.45 transaction. But the location isnt definitive, as Sainsburys has explained 
that this records the location where the payment was processed, not where the transaction 
took place.
It's possible, however, that the fact that the £110 payment was processed in a different 
location from the £204 payment which formed part of the £314 purchase, might still help us 
in regard to where that transaction happened. Retailer Rs main brand store processed its 
payments at the outlet centre, as the location on the compute record shows. But its possible 
that the other brands which retailer R mentioned to Mr G, might have processed their 
payments in the city listed for the £110 payment. Ive googled the outlet centre which Mr G 
visited, and there currently appear to be other shops listed for two of the brands linked to 
retailer R. So its possible that the £110 payment was to purchase goods at one of the other 
two shops linked to retailer R.
In terms of who carried out the disputed £110 transaction, for the reasons stated above, I 
think its unlikely it was a third party fraudster, or that it was linked to the later £314 
purchase. That leaves two possibilities:
- Someone with Mr G that day carried out the disputed transaction, either with or 
without his consent; or 
- Mr G has forgotten the transaction, which could have happened at one of retailer Rs 
other branded shops at the outlet centre. It would be understandable that as retailer 
Rs name is on the statement, Mr G would have associated it with his later £314 
purchases, rather than the brand name on the shop where it might actually have 
taken place. 
But in either scenario, Sainsburys isnt liable to refund Mr G.
Finally, Ive also considered whether Sainsburys should have submitted a chargeback to the 
relevant card scheme on Mr Gs behalf. Chargebacks are run by, and decided by, the card 
schemes, and are subject to the individual schemes rules. The schemes have set 
chargeback reasons, and I dont think Mr Gs situation here would have fitted into any of the 
set reasons. So I dont consider Sainsburys had to submit a chargeback here, and I think its 
likely that if it had done, the chargeback scheme would have declined it.
Taking all these factors into account, I find that Sainsburys isnt liable to refund Mr G for the 
disputed £110 transaction.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman