DRN-2543722
The complaint
Ms S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) transferred monies from her dormant 
bank account without her authority. 
What happened
Ms S says she received a letter from Barclays in March 2018 stating her deposit account 
with them was classified as dormant due to a lack of activity. The letter stated if she took no 
action the balance of the account would be moved to a secure central location where the 
funds could be claimed later. In view of this Ms S decided not to take any action at that 
stage.  
Ms S also held a joint bank account with her daughter which was opened in June 2019, in 
anticipation of receipt of an inheritance. Ms S says she visited Barclays branch in September 
2019 to transfer a large sum of money to her personal bank account with another bank. Over 
a year later Ms S says she visited Barclays branch to arrange for her dormant account and 
transfer funds to her granddaughter. She was then informed the dormant account balance 
had been transferred into her joint account in October 2019. Ms S says she had never 
previously discussed arrangements with Barclays to deal with the dormant account and had 
only visited the branch before to transfer a large amount to her sole account with another 
bank and asked for her name to be removed from the joint bank account, which she believed 
had been actioned. Ms S says her daughter has since withdrawn the monies from the joint 
account without her knowledge, as she had stopped receiving paper statements in 
September 2019. Ms S says she has lost the monies that were sitting in the dormant 
account and wants this refunded.
Barclays says Ms S visited the branch in September 2019 at which time she raised a 
dormancy claim and following this the monies were transferred into the joint account as 
instructed. Barclays have accepted they cant find a record of when Ms Ss paper bank 
statements stopped being sent and were made available online, so have agreed a 
compensation payment for the inconvenience caused of £50. Barclays say they have acted 
in line with Ms Ss instructions for the dormant bank account balance. 
Ms S wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. She 
felt, based on the weight of the evidence provided by Barclays, in all probability Ms S had 
given instructions to transfer the balance of the dormant account to the joint account with her 
daughter, who would have had authority to withdraw any monies from the account. The 
investigator felt there was insufficient evidence to show Ms S had given instructions to 
Barclays to remove her name from the joint account. The investigator also felt the 
compensation of £50 offered by Barclays for the lack of clarity surrounding the change to 
only providing online bank statements, was fair.
Ms S wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I was sorry to learn of Ms Ss health problems and I can understand how upsetting it would 
have been for her to learn monies, held in a secure centrally held dormancy account, had 
been transferred without her knowledge. When looking at this complaint I have considered if 
Barclays had acted unfairly when they transferred the dormant bank account balance to the 
joint account Ms S held with her daughter.
Ms S says she was aware in 2018 a dormant deposit account she held with Barclays had 
been placed in a secure central location and was happy with that arrangement. Ms S says in 
September 2019 she visited a branch of Barclays to make a large payment from her joint 
account held with her daughter to an account with another bank in her sole name. Ms S has 
explained she did this as she had noticed the balance of the joint account had been 
dwindling and only wanted to leave a small balance for her daughter to spend. Ms S says 
she asked Barclays at that time to remove her name from the joint account. It wasnt until a 
year later, Ms S says she learned, after visiting the branch with her granddaughter, that the 
monies in her dormant bank account had been transferred into the joint bank account she 
had held and subsequently withdrawn by her daughter. 
Ms S says she never discussed or gave any instructions regarding the dormant account with 
Barclays prior to it being closed and wouldnt have known if the monies had been 
transferred, as she had no longer been receiving bank statements on the joint bank account 
from Barclays. 
Barclays have said on the day Ms S made the large transfer from her joint bank account with 
her daughter, she initiated a dormancy claim and there is no record of her asking for her 
name to be removed from the joint bank account with her daughter. Barclays have provided 
evidence to this service to show a dormancy claim was raised at around the same time the 
large payment Ms S made from the joint bank account. Barclay says Ms S wouldnt have 
been able to remove her name from the joint bank account without her daughter being 
present or providing instructions for this. Barclays have said they cant provide Ms S with the 
date when her statements were changed to online only and as a result have offered Ms S 
£50 to compensate her for this. 
Having looked at the information and evidence provided by Ms S and Barclays this complaint 
rests on whether or not Ms S did or didnt initiate a dormancy claim and have the dormant 
account monies transferred. Ms S remains certain she never discussed the dormancy claim 
with Barclays and only provided identification to enable a large payment from the joint bank 
account to be made and at that time asked for her name to be removed from that joint bank 
account. While that may well be what Ms S believes to be the case and her explanation to 
this service that sit behind her views are understood, I have to rely on what, in all probability, 
happened on that day from the information and evidence I have seen. I say this because 
clearly there are no recordings or evidence from either party to confirm what was actually 
discussed during that branch visit. 
What is clear from the evidence I have seen, is a dormancy claim form was completed at 
around the same time the large payment was authorised by Ms S. Its worth saying, a 
dormancy claim isnt an everyday banking activity and before doing so, branch staff would 
need to familiarise themselves with quite a lengthy process, details of which have been provided to this service. Its also important to mention the account details of Ms Ss dormant 
bank account wouldnt be apparent or visible to a member of staff without it being brought to 
their attention, as its centrally held. With that in mind I cant see any reason, why a member 
of Barclays staff would, on their own initiative and without the details of the dormant account 
being offered to them, begin to initiate a detailed dormancy claim. The dormancy claim 
documentation provided to this service, details the full identification which would have been 
needed and used shortly after to authorise the large payment Ms S made from her joint bank 
account with her daughter. I am satisfied this identification was, in all probability, used to 
authorise both the payment she made and complete the dormancy claim, which happened 
within an hour of each other. The claim form has the details of Ms Ss joint account with her 
daughter as the beneficiary account for the payment of the dormant bank account balance 
and once the claim had been sent to the dormancy claim team in Barclays, it was  
transferred to the joint bank account with Ms Ss daughter the following month. Ms Ss 
daughter then withdrew the monies from the joint bank account as she was entitled to, as an 
authorised party to that account. 
I would say here, that while Ms S says she would never have given the joint account as the 
beneficiary account, as she wouldnt have wished her daughter to have access to these 
monies, the claim form would have been discussed with Ms S present in order for it to have 
been completed .So, on balance while Ms S may not agree, I am satisfied this would, in all 
probability, have been the bank account details provided by her at that time. While I havent 
been provided with any signed authority, as Ms S mentions, given this was transferred into a 
bank account which she was a party to, this is consistent with Barclays process. So, on 
balance and taking an impartial view, I am satisfied a signed authority may not have been 
needed as Ms S was properly identified prior to the dormancy claim being made.  
Ms S complains she asked for her name to be removed from the joint bank account with her 
daughter, but I cant see any evidence to support this. Barclays have confirmed to this 
service they wouldnt accept one parties instructions to remove a name from a joint bank 
account and either both parties to the account would have needed to be present at that time, 
or an authority would have been required from Ms Ss daughter to allow that - this is what I 
would expect to see. While I am not doubting what Ms S believed to have been the 
sequence of events here, I have to take an impartial view and I am satisfied, if Barclays had 
been told to remove Ms Ss name from the joint bank account with her daughter they would 
only do this with her daughters authority to do so, in line with their standard process. 
Ms S says she hasnt been given an explanation why she never received paper bank 
statements following her branch visit. From what I can see Barclays have been unable to 
identify why and when these bank statements began to be issued online. That said, the bank 
statements continued to be issued in joint names and given that and for reasons I have 
already made clear, I am satisfied in all probability, it wasnt connected to Ms S asking for 
her name to be removed from it. Without further information being available to me or any 
supporting evidence from either party I cant comment why this happened - but as Barclays 
cant give a fuller explanation, it is reasonable they pay £50 to Ms S by way of 
compensation, as they have offered. 
I can understand Ms Ss point , because she no longer received bank statements, she was 
unable to know the monies had been paid into the joint bank account with her daughter. 
While I understand this, it doesnt alter my overall conclusions, that in all probability, Ms S 
gave instructions to Barclays to transfer the dormant bank account balance to the joint bank 
account with her daughter for the reasons I have given before. It follows, I am satisfied Ms S 
would have been aware the balance of the dormant bank account was being transferred to 
the joint bank account with her daughter. 
While Ms S will be disappointed with my decision, it follows I wont be asking anymore of Barclays here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman