DRN-1555852
complaint
Mrs D complains that Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds), mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs D took out a credit card in October 1997. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy 
which wouldve helped cover the repayments on her credit card for up to 12 months at a time 
if she couldnt work. It also provided life cover for the outstanding balance.
Mrs D says she wasnt told the PPI was optional. She says she didnt need the PPI and that 
the terms werent made clear. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. Mrs D disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ds 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs D applied for the credit card by completing an application form. Lloyds has provided a 
copy of Mrs Ds original application form and this shows that Mrs D ticked a box to say she 
wanted the PPI. The PPI appeared in a section headed optional features. She couldve left 
this box blank if she didnt want it, as she did with other products offered on the application 
form in the same section
On balance, on the information I have, I think its likely Mrs D chose to take the PPI knowing 
she didnt have to although its understandable she doesnt remember this over 22 years 
later.
Because Lloyds isnt certain how the PPI was sold it has worked on the basis that it gave 
Mrs D a personal recommendation to buy the PPI. This holds Lloyds to a higher standard, so 
I think this is a fair way to look at this case. So Lloyds had to take reasonable steps to make 
sure the PPI was right for her. Looking at Mrs Ds personal circumstances at the time of sale 
I think the policy was suitable for her. I say this because:
 
Mrs D was eligible for the policy, and she wasnt affected by any of the terms which 
mightve made it more difficult to make a successful claim, such as those related to 
existing medical conditions or self-employment;Mrs D wouldve received some sick pay from her employer. But the policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for much longer than her full sick pay 
wouldve lasted. So it provided an additional benefit;
Mrs D had only been working for her employer for a couple of months, so I dont think 
shed have been entitled to any redundancy pay which means the PPI  which would 
have paid out for up to 12 months at a time  offered a useful benefit. Although Mrs D 
says her parents would have helped out the PPI meant that she didnt need to rely on 
support that couldnt be guaranteed. 
The cost of the policy was comparable with other similar policies on the market at the 
same time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial 
penalty.
 
So I dont think Mrs D lost out as a result of anything Lloyds might have done wrong.
 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint so it follows that Lloyds Bank plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman