DRN-3429075
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC agreed a payment plan for the arrears on his loan but 
then closed his account and recorded a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr M had a loan with Lloyds. In early 2020, he contacted them. Hed lost his job and his 
income had been impacted as a result of the effects of the global pandemic. Lloyds agreed 
deferral of his loan repayments under the FCAs guidance.
When the payment deferral ended, Mr M contacted Lloyds again. His situation hadnt 
improved, and he needed further support. Lloyds reviewed Mr Ms income and expenditure 
which confirmed he didnt have a surplus to meet his contractual loan repayments. 
Over the course of the following year, Lloyds agreed various 30-day hold periods and three-
month nil payment plans in an effort to help Mr M. The last of these ended in August 2021.
Mr M contacted Lloyds in October 2021. His financial situation had improved, and he was 
now able to make his contracted monthly loan repayments. But he needed to agree a 
payment plan to repay the arrears that had built since early 2020. Lloyds agreed a payment 
plan during the call with Mr M.
Mr M then received a call from Lloyds. They told him they couldnt proceed with the payment 
plan. They said his loan was in default and would be closed and transferred to their 
recoveries department. They said this process couldnt be stopped. They also confirmed that 
the default was being registered on his credit file and would remain in place for six years.
Mr M wasnt happy with this. Particularly as Lloyds had verbally agreed a plan for his 
arrears. So, he complained. He thought Lloyds should cancel the default process, correct his 
credit file, and reinstate the loan and the payment plan agreed for the arrears.
Lloyds explained theyd sent letters to Mr M in August, September and October 2021. Theyd 
asked him to contact them following expiry of his previous payment plan, but Mr M hadnt 
contacted them. Lloyds also said theyd sent a default notice. But Mr M said he hadnt 
received those letters. Lloyds apologised that Mr M had been incorrectly told a payment plan 
could be agreed and paid compensation of £50. 
Mr M wasnt happy with Lloyds response to his complaint. He said he hadnt received any of 
their letters or any phone calls, so wasnt aware theyd put his loan into default. He said hed 
made the effort to contact Lloyds and discuss and agree a payment plan for his arrears. He 
thought Lloyds were suggesting he wasnt willing to repay what he owed, which was not the 
case. So, Mr M decided to refer his complaint to this service.
Having investigated Mr Ms complaint, our adjudicator didnt think Lloyds needed to take any 
further action. The adjudicator didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly or unreasonably when 
they placed Mr Ms loan in default and recorded this at the credit reference agencies. 
Mr M didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. He didnt think Lloyds had sent him the 
letters they said they had, so it wasnt his fault he wasnt aware of the situation. He also 
thought Lloyds shouldve called him before placing his loan in default.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ms complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several documents that have been provided by both Mr M and Lloyds. These 
include copies of letters and Lloyds file notes recorded each time they had contact with Mr 
M.  Ive considered these in detail and whether they support what Mr M and Lloyds have said 
here.
From what Ive seen and what Mr M has told this service, its clear he did suffer financially. 
And I believe that much of Mr Ms experiences were a direct consequence of the effects of 
the global pandemic during 2020 and 2021. I do appreciate this was a very difficult time for 
him. Throughout that period, Mr M continued to make efforts to address his problems and 
communicate in an open and co-operative way with Lloyds. While Mr Ms challenges 
undoubtedly caused him ongoing distress and concerns, I think he adopted the right 
approach with Lloyds.
In early 2020, Lloyds agreed to defer Mr Ms loan repayments. The support they gave 
appears to meet the requirements set out in guidance issued by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) at that time. But that guidance was limited in terms of how much support 
Lloyds could provide. 
In situations where support under the FCAs special guidance has been exhausted, Lloyds 
would be expected to consider alternative forms of forbearance. The key rules and standard 
that apply are set down in the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) Section 7. 
These include:
Suspending, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges
Allowing arrears to be deferred where immediate payment could cause payments to 
be unsustainable or where the term would not be increased excessively
Accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow the 
consumer to recover from an unexpected reduction in income.
Lloyds agreed various measures to help Mr M. These included 30-day periods of breathing 
space and arrangements where Mr M didnt have to make loan payments under a nil 
payment plan. On each occasion, Lloyds wrote to Mr M confirming those agreements. Ive 
seen those letters which show when each plan started and ended. They also said that 
normal payments still remained due and Mr M needed to contact them at the end of the plan 
to agree a way forward. 
During each plan, Mr M was still accumulating payment arrears. So, while Lloyds werent 
taking action to recover those, an agreement about how these would be repaid still needed 
to be reached once the plans ended. The letters also said that being behind with your 
payments can affect your credit score. So, I think Lloyds were open about any 
consequences.
The last three-month nil payment plan was agreed on 25 May 2021. Lloyds also confirmed 
this in a letter to Mr M. Lloyds wrote to him again on 24 August 2021 to remind him the plan 
was ending. But I cant see that Mr M contacted Lloyds. So, Lloyds wrote to him again on 2 
September 2021 asking him to contact them. They said theyd take further action if they 
didnt hear from him within 10 days.
With no contact from Mr M, Lloyds sent a default notice on 14 September 2021. This gave 
him until 2 October 2021 to either repay the arrears or arrange a plan with them. A further 
letter was sent on 2 October 2021 which urged Mr M to contact them. It gave a further 14 
days before the loan agreement would be ended, and the full loan amount became due. At 
that point, the default would be registered on his credit file.Mr M didnt contact Lloyds until 25 October 2021 to discuss a payment plan. Lloyds 
discussed and agreed this with him. However, Lloyds later identified theyd made a mistake. 
Mr Ms loan was already being closed and the default registered. This process couldnt now 
be stopped.
Lloyds did call Mr M and apologised for their mistake. And I think this was the right thing to 
do in those circumstances. They also agreed to pay him compensation of £50. This amount 
feels fair and recognises Lloyds mistake here. But I do understand and appreciate Mr Ms 
frustrations and worries. Particularly as he says he didnt receive any of Lloyds letters.
Having reviewed Lloyds files and copy letters, Im satisfied they were sent to Mr M and all 
appear to have been correctly addressed. So, I cant reasonably hold Lloyds responsible if 
they werent delivered. Having sent them, they wouldnt have had control over their delivery. 
I realise that this also wouldnt have been Mr Ms fault. But in considering his complaint, I 
can only decide if Lloyds have done anything wrong, and I cant reasonably say they did.
Bearing in mind the above, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to begin 
the process of taking corrective action in relation to Mr Ms loan arrears when they did. They 
offered Mr M the opportunity to repay the arrears or agree a repayment plan. Also, accepting 
that Mr M says he didnt receive Lloyds letters, hed been made aware that he needed to 
contact them before his payment plan ended, when it was agreed in May 2021.
I do realise Mr M will be very disappointed, but as I cant see that he contacted them, or took 
steps to comply with the default notice in time, Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt do anything 
wrong or treat Mr M unfairly when they ended the agreement and registered the default.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman