DRN-4459828
The complaint
Mrs A complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) provided an unsatisfactory 
settlement of her motor insurance claim. 
RSAs been represented by an agent during the claim. For simplicity Ive referred to the 
actions of the agent as being those of RSA.
What happened
Mrs A claimed for a damaged windscreen under her RSA motor insurance policy. She was 
unhappy with the aftermarket replacement windscreen the insurer provided. She complained 
the heating elements were very visible and prominent. She said this hadnt been the case 
with her original manufacturer windscreen. 
RSA arranged for a replacement from the same manufacturer as the one it had fitted. Mrs A 
considered the replacement to have the same problem, so it wasnt fitted. She requested 
RSA provide an original equipment (OE) replacement. Ultimately RSA declined that request. 
Mrs A complained to RSA. In response it said the windscreen it fitted is the correct product. 
It said there are no issues with it, so it wouldnt agree to a replacement. 
Mrs A was unsatisfied so came to this service. She would like RSA to fit an OE windscreen. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He didnt think RSA had done anything wrong 
by using a non-OE item. He felt there would always be, by the nature of a heated 
windscreen, some visibility of the element. He felt RSA had tried to help by offering a further 
replacement from the same manufacturer. So he didnt recommend RSA provide an OE 
windscreen or that it do anything differently. 
As Mrs A didnt accept that outcome the complaint was passed to me. She said she had a   
reasonable expectation her windscreen would be replaced with one of the same quality. She 
added shes never before had a problem being able to see the heating element of the 
windscreen. 
I issued a provisional decision. As its reasoning forms part of this final decision Ive copied it 
in below. In it I explain why I intended to require RSA to settle Mrs As claim by fitting an OE 
windscreen and paying her £150 compensation. I also invited both to provide any further 
comments or evidence they would like me to consider before issuing this final decision. 
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Mrs As policy terms allows RSA to choose to use parts that are not 
supplied by the original manufacturer. So I cant say it failed to meet the terms of her 
cover by fitting a non-OE part. But Id expect, if such a part is used, for it to provide a 
lasting and effective repair.
Mrs As reported various visibility issues with the windscreen. So Ive considered if its 
installation can be considered as an effective repair. Obviously, visibility is a key 
consideration for a windscreen in a vehicle. 
RSA accepts the heating element of the replacement is more visible than in the 
originals. But it doesnt accept theres anything wrong with it, that its not fit for 
purpose or that it affects Mrs As ability to drive. 
Mrs A, on the other hand, says she sees the element all the time when driving, 
finding it distracting. She explains she wont drive the car on motorways as it 
obscures her vision. She adds there are also visibility problems when driving in low 
winter sun. Ultimately, she feels unsafe when driving the car as a result.
Mrs As provided a photo of the windscreen. The heating element is clearly 
noticeable when looking through it at the the sky - but less so when other objects are 
viewed. Ive only seen this single photo. So I accept the element may be less visible 
from other angles or in different circumstances. I also havent seen any photos of the 
original windscreen, so I cant make a comparison. 
Ultimately, Im not an expert on windscreens so I must base my decision on the 
evidence presented to me. Mrs A hasnt provided anything from a relevant expert or 
technician to support her position. Shes quoted a technician from RSA describing 
the element as prominent, although I havent seen a record of this. 
RSAs case notes record the results of a September 2023 inspection. The technician 
advises the glass as looking OK. He says you can see the heating elements, but 
even on alternative glass (presumably meaning another windscreen from the same 
manufacturer) the elements are the same.
However, there seems to have been an earlier inspection  in August 2023. RSAs 
case notes include a summary report. This records the problem as being a Product 
issue. It states, heater elements look distorted. For further action it states, Needs 
alternative glass put in it as heater elements are visible. 
So that earlier technician seemed to consider there was a problem with the 
replacement windscreen  otherwise he wouldnt have recommended a further 
replacement. The various replacements put in place (but never fitted) seem to have 
had the same issue (Mrs A rejected them for that reason). Following that RSA 
appears to have decided the prominence of the elements wasnt a product issue or a 
problem  but instead is just how they are manufactured now.  
Ive considered RSAs arguments  including its information sheet on the history and 
technical aspects of heated windscreens. I note that it hasnt experienced other 
concerns with that model of windscreen. But on balance, considering Mrs As 
account of the problems she incurs whilst driving, her photo and the original 
technicians diagnosis of a product issue, I cant say the replacement windscreen 
provided her with an effective repair. 
That technician appeared to consider the product to be the problem. Alternative 
windscreens from the manufacturer featured the same issue. So I intend to find that 
RSA, to ensure a lasting and effective repair, should provide Mrs A with an OE 
replacement windscreen.I can see the failure to provide an effective repair has caused some inconvenience 
for Mrs A. As examples, she had to attend several appointments for potential further 
replacement and she restricted the use of her car. So to recognise that I intend to 
require RSA to pay her £150 compensation.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A didnt provide any further comments or evidence.  
RSA said an OE windscreen, if fitted, could be the same, better or worse than the existing 
replacement. It didnt accept replacing the windscreen would address Mrs As concerns. I 
accept theres the possibility an OE replacement doesnt satisfy Mrs A. But, for the reasons 
given above, Im persuaded theres most likely a problem with the non-OE windscreen. So to 
try to provide a lasting and effective repair its reasonable to fit an OE windscreen.
Finally, RSA asked what expectation there would be if lines are apparent on the OE 
replacement windscreen. I cant answer a hypothetical question. It would depend on the 
circumstances. In general Id expect RSA to fulfil its requirements to provide a lasting and 
effective repair and to treat its customers fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to settle 
Mrs As claim by fitting an OE windscreen and paying her £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman