DRN-3768272
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Grove Pension Solutions Limited (Grove) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable 
for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for 
insolvent DB pension schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for 
their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original 
schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme. Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer 
their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Mr Ms scheme benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £167,992.50.
Mr M was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension, so he sought advice. Mr M met with Grove on 22 December 2017 
having been referred to them by another adviser. 
Grove recorded some information about Mr Ms circumstances in a fact-find. It noted that he 
was 50, married with one non-dependent child. He was employed earning approximately 
£41,000. His wife was also employed and she earned around £9,000. They had a mortgage 
on their home of approximately £18,000, which had a remaining term of seven years. They 
had no other liabilities. Mr Ms wife was due around £30,000 from the sale of a property. 
She also had around £35,000 in ISAs and jointly they had other savings of £14,000. 
Mr and Mrs Ms combined income was £3,000 a month and their expenditure was £1,800 a 
month. Grove also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it deemed to 
be medium.
Grove issued a suitability report detailing its recommendation on 15 January 2018. This said 
Mr M definitely wanted to transfer because he wanted control over his pension and he 
wanted his wife to have 100% of the fund. It said Mr M wanted to retire from age 60 if it was 
financially viable, but said that hed carry on working if it wasnt. It set out a number of 
general objectives Mr M had confirmed, including improved death benefits, maximise tax-
free cash, have control of pension benefits, break all ties with former employer, have 
flexibility of taking benefits and early retirement. 
Grove recommended that Mr M transfer his pension to meet his objectives. It also 
recommended a pension provider and fund that it said was in line with his attitude to risk. 
The suitability report also noted that periodic reviews would be provided by Mr Ms existing 
adviser.
Mr M complained to Grove in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. In essence, he 
didnt think the advice to give up a guaranteed pension income was suitable for him. 
Grove didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said Mr M approached it in December 2017 
because he was concerned his benefits would end up in the BSPS2 of the PPF and he 
wanted to avoid this. It said Mr Ms key objectives were for control and improved death 
benefits. It said it believed it helped Mr M achieve these things and taking into account what 
the regulator expected, its advice was suitable. It nevertheless said that, as a gesture of 
goodwill it was willing to make an offer of compensation of a fixed amount.
Dissatisfied with its response and rejecting Groves offer, Mr M referred his complaint to us 
using the services of a representative. He said he maintains the advice was flawed and that 
by relying on it he has suffered a significant financial loss.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and they upheld it. They thought the 
advice was unsuitable. They said Mr M wasnt likely to improve on the benefits he was 
already guaranteed by transferring; early retirement at 60 was a nice to have rather than a 
clearly defined objective; his savings and his workplace pension couldve provided him with 
any flexibility need he might have had; lump sum death benefits was a feature of transferring 
rather than a real need of Mr Ms; and they thought Grove shouldve appropriately managed 
his concerns had about the scheme and moving to either the BSPS2 or the PPF.
Grove disagreed. It said it had provided evidence to show the transfer was in Mr Ms best 
interests. But it said, given the Investigators findings, it believed that compensation should 
be based on Mr M taking benefits through the PPF rather than the BSPS2 because at 
Mr Ms target retirement age of 60, it said the PPF was more generous - particularly if a cash 
lump sum was taken.
Grove later indicated that it was prepared to carry out a loss calculation and make an offer of 
compensation in the interest of concluding matters. But Mr Ms representative has confirmed 
that no offer was forthcoming.
So, because things couldnt be resolved informally, it is necessary for me to issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Grove's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Grove should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms 
best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that Grove was required to carry out by 
the regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Ms pension fund would need 
to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 
9.37% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 
65. Or to match the maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would 
provide at that age, was 7.88%. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid 
from 65 the critical yield was 6.79% and to match the tax-free cash and reduced 
pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 6.41%.
Despite Grove recording that Mr Ms intended retirement age was 60, it did not 
produce critical yields based on the benefits available to Mr M at this age. Only 
basing them on the schemes normal retirement age -  a later retirement age than 
Mr Ms target - wasnt relevant to the advice he was seeking and so wasnt helpful to 
Mr M. 
In addition, the advice was given after the time to choose deadline of 
22 December 2017. So it was known at this point that continuing in the BSPS in its 
existing form wasnt an option for Mr M. So reference to BSPS scheme critical yields 
was in any event somewhat redundant.
Grove didnt undertake any analysis of the benefits Mr M wouldve been due under 
the BSPS2. I think it shouldve done. While at the time the analysis was carried out, the only relevant comparison of benefits was technically the PPF (unless Mr M had 
chosen to opt into the BSPS2 before the deadline), given the timing of its initial 
interaction with Mr M and the looming time to choose deadline, I think Grove ought 
to have advised Mr M to opt into the BSPS2 at this point. If only as a precaution 
before it concluded its formal recommendation. I think it had sufficient information 
about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives at this stage to make a judgement that, 
on balance, this would be more favourable to Mr M than the PPF. Mr Ms plans for 
retirement were not concrete at this time, so I dont think the reduction in benefits he 
wouldve faced by entering the PPF wouldve been offset by the more favourable 
terms for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, he wouldve retained 
the ability to transfer out in the future if Groves advice was to retain his DB benefits.
In any event, given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to 
match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided from age 65 were likely to be 
between those of the BSPS and the PPF.
So, given Mr Ms recorded medium attitude to risk, the discount rate of 4.2% for 14 
years to retirement (age 65) and the regulators middle projection rate, I think Mr M 
was always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 65, of a lower value that 
those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and 
investing in line with that attitude to risk. And given the shorter term to a retirement 
age of 60, I think its likely the critical yields, had they been provided, wouldve been 
higher than those at age 65. So I think he was even more likely to receive lower 
benefits than either the BSPS2 or the PPF offered, if he retired early.
For this reason alone, I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests to transfer to a 
personal pension arrangement.
Mr Ms key objective recorded by Grove, and it appears the main reason it 
recommend the transfer, was because he wanted to leave 100% of his pension pot to 
his wife upon his death and to his son when she died. But the priority here was to 
advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement. And the existing scheme offered 
death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that couldve been valuable to his 
family in the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr M drew in his lifetime. And so may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr M may have thought it would. 
Mr M was contributing to his workplace pension, which wouldve provided lump sum 
death benefits. But if Mr M had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, Grove 
couldve explored life insurance as an alternative. It recorded that he had significant 
disposable income through which he couldve met the associated premiums. And this 
couldve been considered on a whole of life or term assurance basis  which was 
likely to be cheaper. But there's little evidence Grove did so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately Grove should not have 
encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.Mr Ms remaining objectives were recorded as being general objectives rather than 
specific to him and part of an overall retirement plan. For example, Mr M said he 
wanted to retire early at 60. But he also said that if he got to 60 and it wasnt 
financially viable to retire hed carry on working. Im sure Mr M liked the idea of 
retiring early. But he already had this option available to him  he didnt have to 
transfer to achieve things.
Mr M wanted flexibility to take his benefits from age 55. And while he couldnt take 
his DB scheme benefits flexibly, nothing indicates he had a strong need to vary his 
income throughout retirement, no apparent need for a lump sum and defer taking an 
income and no need for a cash lump sum larger than his DB scheme would provide. 
Mr M might have been attracted to the flexibility a personal pension provided  but I 
think this was simply a feature or consequence of transferring to a personal pension 
rather than a genuine objective of Mr Ms.
In any event, Mr M already had flexibility. He was contributing to his workplace 
pension scheme  a defined-contribution (DC) scheme which did provide flexibility in 
how and when he could access his benefits. Given the 16% contribution being made 
to this, I think Mr Ms DB scheme income, his savings and this pension couldve 
given him the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he ultimately decided. So I dont 
think transferring to obtain flexibility was in his best interests. 
Mr M said that he wanted a retirement income of £20,000 a year. But Grove made no 
attempt to carry out a detailed income and expenditure in retirement analysis to 
interrogate this figure or determine whether it was realistic. In any event, I dont think 
Mr M had thought through his retirement plans to fully understand what his income 
need in retirement was. Even if this figure was realistic, Grove doesnt appear to 
have demonstrated to Mr M that he could sustainably meet his £20,000 income need 
from age 60 by transferring to a personal pension.
I think in the circumstances Mr M stood a better chance of meeting his needs by 
remaining in his DB scheme. It provided a guaranteed and escalating income for life, 
which wasnt going to be bettered by transferring. It provided a solid foundation upon 
which his DC pension, joint savings, which were likely to be added to in the period to 
retirement and his wifes pension could supplement to likely meet their overall 
household income need  at least until their state pensions became payable. I think 
this was a more appropriate way for Mr M to meet his future retirement income needs 
rather than risking his guaranteed benefits to attempt do so.
Grove recorded that Mr M wanted greater control over his pension and how it was 
invested. But I think his desire for control was overstated. I cant see that he had an 
interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. 
And the recommendation seems to have been given on the basis his existing adviser 
would provide ongoing investment reviews. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr M  it was again simply a consequence of transferring away from his 
DB scheme.
Mr M may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. It also appears he had concerns about 
the new BSPS2. But it was Groves role to objectively address those concerns. At the 
time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the BSPS2 being established. And if 
things had happened as they should have, Grove shouldve advised Mr M to opt-into 
the BSPS2 as a precaution while it completed its advice. I think this wouldve 
addressed some of Mr Ms concerns. But even if the BSPS2 didnt go ahead, the PPF still provided Mr M with guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free 
cash. Mr M was unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the 
PPF was not as concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he 
held about this meant that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ms best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension at this time. And I also havent seen 
anything to persuade me that Mr M wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to 
remain in the DB scheme  he had little or no investment knowledge or experience and 
nothing suggests to me that he had the requisite confidence or skill to do so. So, Im 
upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr M received from Grove was unsuitable for 
him.
I've thought about Mr M's representative's point regarding the 15% deduction from any 
redress payable, to take into account the tax he would've paid had this been taken as 
income. It believes this is unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been 
deducted from the fund value over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this 
may unfairly reduce the redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact 
compensation in these circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr M 
back into the scheme as if the transfer out hadn't happened. So, overall, I remain of the view 
that the redress proposed fairly compensates Mr M for the impact of the unsuitable advice 
he received.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr M. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
Grove  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr M. Taking everything into account, including Mr Ms age and 
what hes said about the anxiety caused worrying about whether hell be significantly worse 
off in retirement as a result of the advice he received, I think the unsuitable advice has 
caused him some distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Grove to put Mr M, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. As I set out above, given the 
timing of the interaction with Mr M and the looming time to choose deadline of 22 December 
2017, I think Grove ought to have advised Mr M to opt into the BSPS2 as a precaution 
before it concluded its formal recommendation. And if things had happened as they should 
have, I think Groves subsequent recommendation in January 2018 wouldve most likely 
confirmed this as being suitable advice. So it is the benefits available to Mr M under the 
BSPS2, which should be used for comparison purposes. 
Grove must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Grove should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr M and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Grove 
based the inputs into the calculator on.For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Grove should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Groves offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Grove may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Grove Pension Solutions Limited pays Mr M the balance.
Grove Pension Solutions Limited should also pay Mr M £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman