DRN-3969961
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Virgin Money) stopped a payment on her 
debit card.
Mrs S says that her card being declined caused her embarrassment.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that Virgin Money had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably, so they did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything, I can see that when Virgin Money stopped Mrs Ss 
payment, this caused her some frustration. I say this especially as when she called up Virgin 
Money to get the payment released but a voicemail message was left for her (whilst she was 
on the phone to Virgin Money at the time) containing the payment authorisation code. This 
led to Mrs S having to hang up to listen to the voicemail and then call Virgin Money back with 
the relevant code.
However, Virgin Money has explained why some transactions may be stopped by its fraud 
detection system  amongst other things this includes where payments are made to a new 
payee and payments are made from a new device. 
I note that Mrs S demanded to know the exact reason why her payment was stopped. But I 
dont think Virgin Money was being unreasonable for not disclosing the exact reasons why 
the payment mayve been stopped. This is because making information about how its 
systems operate public could allow fraudsters to circumvent the system. Nevertheless, such 
systems are in place to protect the account holder from fraudulent transactions taking place 
on their account. Therefore, although I recognise that the matter was clearly frustrating for 
Mrs S, I cant reasonably say that Virgin Money treated Mrs S unfairly or unreasonably 
because it stopped the payment.
I note that Mrs S is also unhappy with how Virgin Money dealt with the matter, and her 
complaint. However, although things may not have gone as smoothly as they shouldve, I 
think that Virgin Moneys offer to pay £60 fairly reflects the inconvenience caused to Mrs S 
by this matter. So I dont think any further award is warranted.
Putting things right
Virgin Money should pay Mrs S £60 for the distress and inconvenience that this matter 
caused, if it has not done so already, to put matters right.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money needs to do anything more than what it has already offered to do  as outlined 
above - to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman