DRN-1840279
The complaint
Mr W complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) mishandled the 
voluntary termination of his hire purchase agreement for a car. 
What happened
In January 2015, Mr W acquired a car via a five-year hire purchase agreement with VWFS. 
Mr W says he was told that once he had paid off half of the agreement, he would be able to 
change the car. So, in June 2019, Mr W re-visited the dealership and took out a new 
agreement for a new car. He left his original car at the dealership.
In August 2019, Mr W contacted VWFS and queried why it had taken a payment for the first 
car and was told that this agreement was still active. VWFS says it explained that Mr W 
needed to voluntary terminate (VT) that agreement and this had to be done in writing. It 
says it sent the VT forms to Mr W, but they werent returned.
In October 2019, Mr W contacted VWFS and queried why he had received a letter about 
arrears on the first account. VWFS says it told him that the VT forms hadnt been received 
and that, only when these had been completed, could the agreement be ended.
VWFS says it received the VT forms from Mr W in November 2019, but they were incorrectly 
completed. VWFS sent Mr W a text advising him that his account was in arrears. Mr W 
complained to VWFS that it was unfairly charging him under the agreement that had been 
terminated in June 2019 when he had changed the car and taken out a new agreement.
VWFS didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said that Mr W had a legal duty to put into writing 
that he wanted to terminate the first agreement and he hadnt done so. It said that, as a 
gesture of goodwill, if Mr W returned the VT forms by January 2020, correctly filled out, it 
would honour terminating agreement from November 2019, when the incorrect forms had 
been received.
Mr W was unhappy at VWFSs response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr Ws intention to 
terminate the agreement had been clear, although he hadnt gone through the VT process 
correctly. She also said she thought the dealership could have done more to help Mr W 
understand what he needed to do when he had taken out the second agreement.
Our investigator said that, as VWFS had been aware that Mr W wished to VT the agreement 
when hed phoned in August, it would be fair for the agreement to end then and not in 
November 2019. VWFS should therefore refund any payments made by Mr W after August 
2019 and remove any adverse information from his credit file.
VWFS disagreed with our investigators view. It said it hadnt been obvious that Mr W had 
wanted to end the first agreement when he took out the second, as many consumers had 
multiple agreements in place. VWFS said it wouldnt be reasonable to expect it to have 
contacted Mr W to check his intentions about having both agreements live at the same time. 
VWFS also said that, when Mr W had contacted it in August 2019, it had explained the 
process he needed to follow to VT and sent out the paperwork. It acknowledged Mr W had 
said, during his call in October 2019, that he hadnt received it but, it said, he also hadnt 
made any effort to chase it up which it thought would have been reasonable.
VWFS reported that the dealership had said Mr W had told it that he was ending the first 
contract with VWFS and, because the dealership couldnt request VT as only Mr W was able 
to do that, it hadnt been required to do any more. VT was a simple process that had been 
complicated by Mr Ws failure to make contact with VWFS.
VWFS said that Mr W still hadnt completed the paperwork properly, and its offer to accept 
VT from November 2019 was fair. It had been Mr Ws responsibility to end this agreement 
correctly and, although he hadnt had any use of the car since hed left it at the dealership in 
June 2019, its value had also been depreciating. It was unfair in these circumstances for 
VWFS to reimburse Mr W payments hed made under the agreement since August 2019 and 
also to have (to) pay additional interest on to that amount. 
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Mr W didnt follow the VT process as set out in the hire purchase agreement 
because he did not put his request to terminate in writing to VWFS. I also accept that the 
dealership wouldnt be able to terminate the agreement on Mr Ws behalf, and that only Mr 
W can take this action. But I think its clear that, when Mr W took out the second finance 
agreement for the new car, his intention was for the first hire purchase agreement to come to 
an end. He left his first car at the dealership in June 2019 and has not had use of it since.
The dealership says that Mr W told it he was terminating the first agreement with VWFS 
when he took out the second agreement. It also says that it advised Mr W in July 2019, that 
he needed to contact VWFS directly about having the car collected. Mr W says that hes a 
repeat customer of the dealership and that, on a previous occasion, he returned a car at the 
half way stage of a finance agreement and took out a new agreement for another car. He 
says that on that previous occasion the agreement ended without difficulty.
Under S56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 a finance provider may be liable for what is said 
by a supplier before a credit agreement is taken out. And, although I dont know what the 
parties said at the time the second agreement was taken out, I think its more likely than not 
that there was some discussion about the first agreement. I also think its reasonable to have 
expected the dealership to cover the ending of the first agreement when arranging the 
second, particularly when the car was being left with it, and Mr Ws intentions about ending 
the first agreement had been clear. I think the dealership could have been more helpful to Mr 
W, when he took out the new agreement, about what he needed to do to ensure the old one 
was ended. 
Ive seen that the dealership accepted the car when Mr W left it there in June 2019. Ive also 
seen that the dealership says it reminded Mr W of the need to contact VWFS directly when 
he visited in July 2019. However, it didnt contact VWFS itself until November 2019 to say 
the car was still there.
Mr W contacted VWFS in August 2019 when he realised he was paying for two agreements. 
VWFS says it told him the process he needed to follow and sent him the paperwork. Mr W says he never received this from VWFS. However, VWFS says it was for Mr W to have 
chased this up earlier than his next call in October 2019. I appreciate that it was Mr Ws 
responsibility to terminate the agreement following the set process. But, in these particular 
circumstances, where Mr W says that hed left a car at the dealership for VWFS to collect 
when taking out a new agreement, without these problems before, then Im not surprised he 
didnt follow up on the lack of the VT paperwork. Mr W says he filled out the paperwork and 
returned it once hed received it.
Mr W says he terminated the agreement in June 2019 when he left the car at the dealership. 
He says hes done this before, and the dealership agreed to have the car left with it. VWFS 
says it would be fair to treat the agreement as VTd from November 2019, as this was when 
the paperwork, although wrongly completed, was actually received by it. I dont know why 
the VT paperwork didnt arrive at Mr Ws home in August but think, looking at the evidence, 
that its fair to say that VWFS was aware from the call Mr W made in August that it was his 
intention to terminate the agreement. It was also aware that the car was at the dealership. 
VWFS also says that its a legal requirement that VT is in writing but, while I have to take into 
account what the law says, Im not bound by it in reaching what I feel is a fair and 
reasonable decision in all the circumstances. So, although I appreciate Mr W should have 
put his wishes in writing, I think it would be fair for the agreement to be considered as 
terminated from August 2019. And I think, taking this date as the end date. reflects that Mr W 
should have made contact with VWFS, but also recognises that the dealership should have 
been more helpful when ending the first agreement and arranging the second.
I appreciate the cars value has been depreciating while it has been at the dealership, but I 
dont think that makes it fair for Mr W not to be reimbursed any payments made after August 
2019. He hasnt had any use of the car and, as set out above, I believe its reasonable to 
think that VWFS was aware of his intention to end the agreement.
VWFS has also said that as it recorded only factual information about late payments on Mr 
Ws credit file this information shouldnt be removed. However, in these particular 
circumstances I disagree. The information on the credit file should reflect that the agreement 
was VTd in August 2019, so any adverse information added to the account relating to 
payments after August 2019 is unfair and should be removed.
So, for the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking VWFS to do the following:
Mark the hire purchase agreement as being voluntary terminated in August 2019
Reimburse Mr W any monthly instalments paid after the agreement was voluntarily 
terminated together with a yearly interest of 8% simple from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ws credit file if 
added after the date the agreement was voluntary terminated.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am upholding Mr Ws complaint. I am asking Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to do the following:
Mark the hire purchase agreement as being voluntary terminated in August 2019Reimburse Mr W any monthly instalments paid after the agreement was voluntarily 
terminated together with a yearly interest of 8% simple from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ws credit file if 
added after the date the agreement was voluntary terminated.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman