DRN-1962477
The complaint
Mr F complains about the end of term charges hes been asked to pay by Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (Audi).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr F acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr F responsible for keeping the car in 
good repair and condition. He would be responsible for any damage to or 
deterioration of the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear. I think it was for him to 
ensure this condition was complied with and to clarify with Audi if he was unsure of 
the return condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. Im persuaded that most of the damage that Audi are 
making refurbishment charges for is beyond what would be considered fair wear and 
tear under the BVRLA guidance. However, Im not persuaded that Mr F should be 
charged for the scratch to the bumper as I dont think that is beyond the guidance. 
The photograph shows a mark. The bumper is dirty and its not clear whether the 
mark would be removed with washing. I think, on balance, that it probably would be 
and that its not a scratch.
I understand Mr F has suggested the paint flaking was a manufacturing defect, but 
Im not persuaded by that argument. The requirement to return the car in a 
satisfactory condition was set out in the finance agreement and I think its reasonable 
to suggest Mr F should have been aware that he would be charged for paint damage. 
In those circumstances I think it was for him to complain about the quality of the 
paintwork as soon as it happened, but as he didnt I dont think it would be fair to 
suggest theres evidence of a manufacturing defect.
Whilst some businesses will be prepared to suspend collection activities whilst a 
complaint is in process, this service cant insist they do. So, it would not be 
reasonable for me to suggest that Audi were unfair when pursuing the debt through 
their collection team. 
So, Im asking Audi to remove some of the charges theyve made. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to remove the charge for the scratch to the bumper of 
£55.20.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman