DRN-3018597
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to reject a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy for an escape of water causing damage to 
their static bungalow. 
Their son-in-law Mr C is representing Mr and Mrs W in their complaint. 
What happened
In November 2020 Mr C on behalf of Mr and Mrs W reported water damage to their property 
to their insurer, Ageas. Mr C said he discovered there was a drip from a braiding hose 
supplying the water to the shower. Mr C was able to repair the leak. He provided Ageas with 
a detailed engineer report with moisture readings and photos. The estimate for repairs came 
to £4,787.64 including VAT.
Ageas instructed an engineer to visit and determine the cause of damage. 
Their engineer said the damage had been caused over time due to a lack of silicone around 
the shower tray. They said the shower door had degraded and was allowing water to pass 
through it when the shower was in use. 
As Mr and Mrs Ws policy excluded cover for damage caused by wear and tear  and for a 
failure of sealant  Ageas declined their claim. 
Mr and Mrs W are both elderly. Mr C told us they are both living with serious illness and Mr 
W is registered blind. For these reasons, Mr C said they arranged for the repairs to be 
carried out as a matter of priority. 
While carrying out the repairs, Mr C was able to provide Ageas with further detailed photos 
to support his view that the damage had been caused by the leaking braided hose and not 
the lack of silicone and degraded shower door. 
Mr C complained to Ageas. But in April 2021 it said its decision was correct. So Mr C on 
behalf of Mr and Mrs W asked us to look at their complaint. 
Our investigator thought Ageas had taken a narrow view when considering the claim. He 
accepted the policy exclusions, but that on balance he thought there was more than one 
cause of damage. He found the information provided by both parties equally persuasive as 
to the cause of damage. 
The investigator thought Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have reasonably been aware of the problem 
until theyd moved furniture in an adjoining room to decorate. And in view of their 
circumstances, he didnt think Mr and Mrs W could have arranged preventative repairs 
sooner. So the investigator thought the fairest outcome was for Ageas to meet half of the 
costs of the claim to put right the damage. 
Ageas didnt agree. It said there was no evidence of moisture behind the shower unit wall, 
the insulation wasnt wet and the timber frames were dry - but there were moisture readings 
at low level where the shower tray and sealant was. Ageas said there was evidence of water 
damage to the floorboards below the shower tray when it was removed. 
Mr C didnt agree. Hes provided photos and described the insulation behind the shower wall 
as being wet caused by the braiding hose leak. He says the sealants had done their job as 
when the shower tray was removed the areas away from the leaking hose area were dry. He 
believes Ageas decision not to meet the claim in full is unfair.
As both parties disagree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Mr C says Mr and Mrs W noticed a wet patch on the floor next to the wall adjoining the 
shower room when they moved some furniture in the living room to decorate. 
Ageas appointed engineer said the wall where the shower unit was housed didnt appear to 
show signs of moisture. And from the photos provided by Mr C, they said the cracked 
shower tray when removed shows water damage to the flooring immediately beneath the 
crack. So the engineer said this shows water had been passing the tray at low level for some 
time. 
Mr C provided photos of the shower tray and said they show no crack, but a surface scratch. 
He said the photos show there was no leak beneath the shower tray when it was removed. 
He has provided photos of the insulated wall behind the shower unit, describing it as wet. 
Ive carefully considered all of the information provided by both parties. I think Ageas has 
shown that there was wear and tear damage to the shower sealant and degradation to the 
shower door. But I think both views are persuasive as to the likely cause of damage  and 
both parties have put forward equally compelling arguments as to why they disagree with 
each other. 
It seems clear there was an escape of water. The cupboard behind the shower at ground 
level in the area where the hose connection leads to the shower unit showed very high 
moisture readings and the carpet and flooring underneath was saturated. Mr C says the 
insulation in the wall behind the shower unit was wet when exposed during the repairs. I 
accept that Ageas engineer says the timber framing the insulation should have therefore 
showed signs of damp too  and from the photos they didnt. 
I think some damage has been caused by a deterioration of the seal around the shower tray 
and door. Although Mr C points out in the photos he provided that the areas were dry after 
removal of the tray, I think there are some wet patches in the floorboards from some but not 
all of the photos.
Putting things right
I understand both parties will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think the 
information shows there is more than one cause of damage in this case. So I think the fairest 
outcome is for Ageas to meet 50% of the repair costs. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to 
pay 50% of the full costs Mr and Mrs W paid to repair the water damage, subject to 
reasonable proof of payment. 
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay interest on the amount at a rate of 8% simple 
interest a year from the date of the claim to the date of payment. 
If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs W a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman