DRN-3611218
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have failed to refund three 
transactions totalling £7,198.83 which Mr P says were made as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The background is broadly known to all parties, so I wont repeat what happened in great 
detail. I will however give an overview of key events.
In 2021 Mr P made three transactions using his debit card;
1. £258.46 to a company I will call A
2. £940.37 to a software provider I will call B
3. £6,000 to Bitonomics a cryptocurrency exchange
Mr P contacted Barclays and said that these transactions were unauthorised by him. 
Barclays investigated this matter and concluded that it believed that Mr P had made these 
transactions. Subsequently to this Mr P has explained that he now recalls these transactions 
but he was persuaded to make them as part of a scam with a company I will call C. Mr P 
believes that Barclays should not have allowed him to make these transactions or should 
have contacted him prior to them being carried out.
One of our investigators looked into this matter already and they concluded that the first two 
transactions were not sufficiently out of the ordinary for Barclays to have intervened. In 
relation to the final transaction they said that they felt that had Barclays intervened Mr P 
would still have carried out the transaction.
Mr P did not agree with this and therefore this complaint was passed to me to issue a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what I understand, once Mr P had made the payment from his Barclays account to the 
third party, his funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer (C) from his crypto 
wallet. The payment was requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided 
by Barclays to purchase a cryptocurrency. And the starting position is that banks ought to 
follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made 
as instructed.
It isnt in dispute that the payment Mr P made to Bitonomics was unusual given that it did 
trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and was automatically blocked pending further 
enquiry. Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank went far enough in the 
circumstances with that intervention. After the payment flagged as unusual, Barclays says it 
asked Mr P to confirm the payments were genuine. 
Mr P doesnt recall being asked to do this, and the bank has not been able to provide a copy 
of any call recording or text messages, so it isnt possible to say whether its intervention 
went far enough or even happened. But in any event, based on what Barclays has provided, 
simply asking Mr P to verify the payment as genuine would not constitute an adequate 
intervention in light of the payment being flagged as suspicious.
However, even if Barclays did ask further probing questions about the nature of the 
payments Mr P was making, Im not persuaded it would have likely stopped him from 
proceeding or have ultimately prevented his loss. I say this because I am not persuaded that 
had Barclays intervened at the time of the payment Mr P would have been forthcoming 
about the involvement of C. This is highlighted by him not telling Barclays about the details 
of the scam until well after it had declined his initial complaint and his complaint had already 
been referred to this service. I also think this wouldve been the case especially as Mr P 
seems to have been convinced for some time after this transaction that his investment was 
genuine. Even if Mr P had disclosed that C was the company he was dealing with (which I 
dont think was likely), there was not yet any credible adverse information published about C 
 such as regulator warnings  that would have likely discouraged Mr P from proceeding 
with this payment. In other words, whilst I think Barclays failed to provide a meaningful 
warning to Mr P, I dont think this failure was the primary cause of Mr Ps loss. 
Ive also thought about whether Barclays could have done more to recover the funds after Mr 
P reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered. However, in 
these circumstances, I dont think there was anything further Barclays could have done to 
recover the funds. Mr P used his debit card to pay a legitimate crypto-exchange platform 
before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he wouldnt be able 
to make a successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the company he 
paid had provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I 
do not think Barclays would have been under any obligation to pursue a chargeback claim in 
this instance.
Finally, I note that Mr P has listed medical reasons as to why Barclays should not have 
allowed him to carry out these transactions. But I cant see that Barclays were aware of Mr 
Ps medical conditions or that he had asked Barclays to adapt the way he managed his 
account. So I dont think its reasonable to have expected Barclays to have treated Mr P any 
differently. And so I dont think that Barclays did anything wrong in relation to this.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment as this was a substantial sum of 
money. I am sorry to hear Mr P has been the victim of a cruel scam. But in this instance, all I 
can look at is whether Barclays did anything wrong and in this case Im not persuaded that 
Barclays can fairly or reasonably be held liable for his loss for the reasons outlined above.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 Charlie Newton
Ombudsman