DRN-4268506
The complaint
Mr L complains that Helvetia Global Solutions Limited (Helvetia) is responsible for
mishandling his claim on a breakdown insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L was living in the UK with his partner who was working for a ferry company that gave its
staff free crossings. Mr Ls partner had parents living in a distant country in the European
Union.
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car of a rare brand and first registered
in about 2015. Mr L had the car from at least June 2021 (when DVLA issued the most
recent V5 registration document).
In late April 2022, the car passed an MOT test with a recorded mileage of about 63,000.
Mr L took out a breakdown insurance policy that covered Europe. The policy was branded
with the name of a breakdown company that administered the policy.
The policy said that it was underwritten by Helvetia Schweizerische
Versicherungsgesellschaft in Liechtenstein AG. I wouldnt usually expect anyone to translate
a company name into another language including the translation of the abbreviation AG to
Ltd. Nevertheless, a translation could be Helvetia Swiss Insurance Company in
Liechtenstein Ltd. Such a company is mentioned on Helvetias website as having changed
its name in April 2022 to Helvetia Global Solutions Limited. So I consider that Helvetia was
the insurer that was ultimately responsible for dealing with any claim.
Mr L and his partner arranged a trip to visit Mr Ls partners parents.
From about 14 December 2022 Mr L and his partner travelled (with the car and a friend) by
ferry and by road across Europe. After arriving at the family home on about 17 December
2022, the car unfortunately broke down on about 19 December 2022. Mr L contacted the
breakdown company. It declined to help, saying that the policy didnt cover him because he
hadnt purchased a return ticket.
On about 30 December 2022, the car was still broken down in the EU country. The ferry
company sent Mr Ls partner a booking confirmation for the return journey. Mr L sent that to
the breakdown company.
Mr L complained that the company should meet his claim. By a final response dated 9 
January 2023, the breakdown company turned down the complaint.
Mr L brought his complaint to us in late January 2023.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator treated the complaint as against the breakdown company.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that It was
not fair or reasonable to decline Mr Ls claim.
The investigator said that Mr L had had to pay a £30.00 diagnostic charge from a local
garage and a £50.00 charge to tow the car to the garage and back. Mr L lost the use of the
car for around thirty days when he would have been entitled to the use of a hire car. Mr L 
had paid £2,160.00 for the recovery of the car back to the UK. He also suffered some 
significant distress and inconvenience whilst trying to resolve this matter.
The investigator recommended that the breakdown company should:
1. pay Mr L compensation of £150.00 for the distress and inconvenience of having his 
claim unfairly declined and the resulting time and frustrations of trying to resolve this; 
and
2. pay Mr L £300.00 to cover his costs because of the loss of use of the car whilst in 
Eastern Europe of approximately 30 days; and
3. pay Mr L back the costs of £2,160.00 for the recovery of the car; and
4. pay Mr L back the £30.00 diagnostic charge; and
5. pay Mr L back the £50.00 towing fee; and
6. assess any remaining elements of Mr Ls claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms.
More recently, the investigator treated the complaint as against Helvetia.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr L 
and to Helvetia on 8 July 2023. I summarise my findings:
The car broke down shortly after arrival in the destination country. The car and its 
fault were so unusual that it couldnt be fixed in that country at all. And Mr L and his 
partner were due back at work on Monday 16 January 2023. So Mr L got a van and 
two drivers to carry him and his passengers and to tow the car back to the UK, where 
a main dealer fixed it.
I couldnt see how any of those circumstances was connected to his failure to 
purchase a pre-booked return ticket before the breakdown. So I didnt consider that 
Helvetia treated Mr L fairly or reasonably by rejecting his claim on that ground.
Subject to any further information from Mr L or from Helvetia, my provisional decision was 
that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Helvetia Global Solutions Limited to 
pay Mr L:
1. insofar as he provides us with receipts or other evidence of payment, £50.00 for 
towing the car to the garage in the EU; and
2. insofar as he provides us with receipts or other evidence of payment, £2,160.00 for 
repatriation; and
3. £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr L has responded to the provisional decision, in summary, as follows:The recovery agent provided the details of the garage. He contacted the garage. He 
arranged for a neighbour who had a towing dolly to tow the car to the garage. The 
neighbour didnt provide a receipt for payment in local currency equivalent to £50.00.
The garage identified the problem but were unable to fix it due to not having the 
necessary computer software and parts.
His partners father knew an agricultural machinery business in the local area and 
spoke to them about them assisting.  They had a crew cab van which would seat 5 
people and hired the trailer for the car. They recovered the car, him and two 
passengers home. 
His partner arranged with his employer for the ferry crossing and the return crossing 
for the two people who brought them home, their van and trailer. The ferry crossing 
included a night's stay in a cabin along with breakfast paid for by his partners 
company as a benefit.
He has sent us a scanned copy of the handwritten receipt that the gentleman has 
provided. This included the diesel for the van, the trailer hire, a night each way in a 
hotel for the two drivers, and meals/food and drinks. The money also included pay for 
the two drivers for their time. He paid in local currency which, in a recent conversion, 
works out to be £2,260.79.
He has been as honest as possible.
Helvetia hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covered roadside assistance and  if the car couldnt be repaired at the roadside
 a tow to a suitable workshop. The policy didnt cover a workshop diagnosis or repair.
The policy covered alternative transport in the EU up to £350.00  on a pay and claim basis.
The policy terms included the following:
Repatriation
Repatriation will be offered on the following basis:
Either
 Repatriation of passengers:
If the vehicle cannot be repaired by your intended return date, we will pay up to £300
per person for you and up to 7 passengers to be transported either to your home
address, or if you would prefer and it is closer, your original destination within the
Territorial Limits (Europe - West). We will also pay up to £100 towards the cost of
alternative transport for one person to return and collect the vehicle once the repairs
are complete. The maximum payment for passenger repatriation per approved
incident is £2,000.
Or
 Repatriation of passengers and vehicle:
If the vehicle cannot be repaired within 14 days of the breakdown and providing that
your intended return date to the UK has passed as evidenced by your original
booking documentation, we will pay the cost of:
o getting you, and up to 7 passengers to your home address subject to a limit of £300
per person and £2000 in total.
o getting the vehicle to your home address (or a suitable workshop within 10 miles of
your home address) in the Territorial Limits (UK), or if you would prefer and it is
closer a repairer of your choice in the Territorial Limits (Europe - West)...If the total cost of repatriation your vehicle is greater than the current market value of
the vehicle, we will deem the vehicle to be an economic write-off and will only offer
repatriation of passengers
So there was a policy limit of £2,000.00 for repatriation of Mr L and his passengers. The only
limit on repatriation of the car was the market value of the car.
But the policy also included the following:
Additional exclusions applying to assistance in Territorial Limits (Europe - West &
East)
7 Cover for trips that do not start and finish within the Territorial Limits (UK) or if a
pre-booked return ticket has not already been purchased.
And the Insurance Product Information Document said the following:
What is not insured?

Cover for European trips that do not start and finish in the UK or if a pre-booked
return ticket has not already been purchased
So Im satisfied that there was a clear exclusion if a pre-booked return ticket hadnt already
been purchased.
However, Mr L and his partner were in the unusually fortunate position of not needing to
purchase a return ticket because they could get a return ticket for free.
In an email dated 19 December 2022, Mr L said that he would book the return crossing
about a week before the planned return in January 2023. In his complaint email dated 21
December 2022, Mr L said that - because they had previously lost money on missing pre-
booked crossings  he and his partner never booked the return crossing until they were
almost at the ferry port. So I dont accept that Mr L had a firm booking for the return crossing 
before the confirmation on 30 December 2022.
Mr L asked (rhetorically) in his email dated 21 December 2022:
What difference does it make whether I have booked the return ticket or not. It
makes none.
That reminds me that Insurance Code of Practice Sourcebook (ICOBS) includes the
following:
8.1.2B a rejection of a consumer policyholders claim for breach of a condition or
warranty  is unreasonable unless the circumstances of the claim are connected to
the breach.
In Mr Ls case, the car broke down shortly after arrival in the destination country. The car
and its fault were so unusual that it couldnt be fixed in that country at all. And Mr L and his
partner were due back at work on Monday 16 January 2023. So Mr L arranged for a van, two
drivers and a trailer to carry him and his passengers and to tow the car back to the UK, 
where a main dealer fixed it. I cant see how any of those circumstances was connected to 
his failure to purchase a pre-booked return ticket before the breakdown.
So I dont consider that Helvetia treated Mr L fairly or reasonably by rejecting his claim on
that ground.Later he said that he had booked the return crossing through the staff bookings system but
that crossings in the New Year hadnt been available on that system. I accept the breakdown
companys point that Mr L changed his story about booking the return crossing. I consider
that Mr L brought trouble on himself by that change.
Putting things right
Weighing everything up, Ive thought about whats fair and reasonable to try to put things
right for Mr L.
As it was an unusual car, I dont think that roadside assistance wouldve provided a
diagnosis let alone a repair. I dont consider that Helvetia should pay £30.00 for the garage
diagnosis as the policy didnt cover it. 
My provisional decision said that I expected Mr L to provide receipts or other evidence of 
payment (such as bank statements) showing the payments of (or equivalent to) £50.00 and 
£2,160.00. Subject to that, I found it fair and reasonable that Helvetia should reimburse him 
as the policy covered a tow to a local garage and repatriation of the car and its passengers.
As Mr L hasnt provided evidence of the £50.00 payment, I wont direct Helvetia to reimburse 
it. 
As Mr L has provided a receipt (albeit handwritten), I accept that he paid 13,000.00 units of 
local currency for the repatriation. Compared to the more recent conversion of £2,260.79, I 
find it fairer to adopt the conversion just after the repatriation of £2,160.00.
My provisional decision didnt mention interest. But Ive thought about directing Helvetia to 
pay interest at our usual rate on the £2,160.00. However, thats a matter within my 
discretion. And  keeping in mind my findings about Mr Ls change of story  I dont find it 
fair and reasonable to direct Helvetia to pay interest.
Mr L couldnt use the car from 19 December 2022 until it was back in the UK and repaired.
But by 12 January 2023, Mr L and his passengers were travelling back to the UK in the
van for which I expect Helvetia to reimburse him.
The intervening loss of use of the car was due to the breakdown rather than due to Helvetia.
Mr L hasnt provided any evidence of paying for alternative transport such as a hire car, taxis 
or public transport. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Helvetia to pay Mr L for loss 
of use of the car (or for alternative transport). 
As Mr L hasnt mentioned or provided evidence of any other financial claim, I dont direct 
Helvetia to deal with any such claim.
From the emails, I accept that by its early rejection of his claim - which Ive found unfair 
Helvetia caused Mr L extra distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time for him
and his partner. Helvetia has done nothing to put that right. I find that its fair and
reasonable to direct Helvetia to pay him £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I  
direct Helvetia Global Solutions Limited to pay Mr L:
1. £2,160.00 for repatriation; and2. £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman