DRN-2390166
The complaint
Mr F complains that (AXA) hasnt dealt fairly with a claim he made under the buildings 
insurance that covers the flat he owns. 
What happened
Mr F owns a property in a block of flats. The building is insured by the holder of the freehold, 
and Mr F is a beneficiary of the policy as he owns one of the flats covered. Thats a fairly 
common arrangement.
Mr F reported a large crack in a ceiling in his property in mid-June. He got a builder to prop 
up the ceiling to prevent further damage, and contacted AXA about making a claim.
AXA agreed to consider the claim and a few days later sent a surveyor to look at the 
damage. The surveyor didnt know what had caused the damage, but told AXA it was 
possible that poor workmanship had contributed to the problems Mr F was facing. AXA said 
it wouldnt meet the claim for this reason.
 Mr F complained, saying that as the surveyor did no more than look at the crack he couldnt 
possibly know that poor workmanship had been the cause of the collapse. He raised a 
number of other points about what AXA had said. AXA didnt change its stance, but it did say 
it would reconsider the claim if Mr F provided a report from his builder about the cause of the 
damage.
Mr F had the ceiling repaired and obtained a report from the builder about possible causes of 
the damage. The builder said that every fixing that held the ceiling frame to the floor above 
had failed  but he didnt say, in the report, why that might have happened.
AXA looked at the complaint again, and came to the conclusion that as Mr F couldnt show 
that an insured peril had caused the damage, it was excluded from cover under a 
collapse exclusion in the policy.
Mr F brought his complaint to us for review. Our investigator said he thought AXA was wrong 
to initially say the collapse was caused by poor workmanship when no investigation had 
taken place. However, he went on to say that he agreed with the conclusions AXA had 
reached when it re-assessed the claim for Mr F. He thought that, as no cause for the 
collapse had been established with any certainty, AXA could rely on an exclusion in its policy 
terms and conditions which said it need not pay for collapsed structural parts of the building 
unless the damage had been caused by an insured peril.
Mr F responded to ask why our investigator had considered other reasons why AXA could 
decline his claim rather than just the initial reason (poor workmanship). Our investigator 
explained hed used the information provided by AXA from its internal records which showed 
the re-assessment had been done. He sent Mr F various copies of the records so Mr F could 
look at them for himself. He agreed AXA hadnt communicated with Mr F very well, but didnt 
think this had affected the outcome of the claim.
Mr F remains unhappy so Ive been asked to decide this claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No insurance policy covers everything that might happen to a building over the period its 
insured. Instead, when a claim is made for damage under an insurance policy, the process is 
first, that Mr F as policy beneficiary, must show AXA that an insured event has occurred. 
These events are listed in Mr Fs policy under the heading defined perils. This limitation on 
whats insured reduces an insurers exposure to risk and is common in all policies to a 
greater or lesser extent. 
Once AXA accepts that an insured event has occurred, and has caused damage, then if it 
wants to avoid meeting the claim the onus falls on it to show that an exception has 
occurred. For example, it might be able to show that a lack of maintenance had led to the 
damage.
Turning now to Mr Fs specific claim, I can see he made a claim for damage to his ceiling. A 
crack so large that the ceiling needed to be propped up appeared. Mr F approached AXA, 
who sent a surveyor to look at the damage. That surveyor  without doing anything other 
than look at the ceiling, concluded it wouldnt have cracked unless it had been poorly 
constructed. 
Thats not a sound base upon which to reject a claim as  as our investigator pointed out  
no effort had been made to establish the cause of the damage.
AXA did appear to review the claim and send Mr F its conclusions although I havent seen a 
copy of the email it sent to him. But essentially AXA said it wouldnt meet the claim because 
no cause of damage had been established  and without that any part of the building that 
collapsed wasnt covered. I agree with our investigator that AXA didnt convey this 
information to Mr F very well  but he did already know AXA wasnt going to meet his claim.
Various suggestions have been made about why the ceiling might have collapsed  but 
theres no supporting evidence that it was by one of the defined perils listed in the policy. Its 
been suggested that it might be water damage  but theres no evidence to support this. And 
its also been suggested that it might have been something heavy dropped in the flat above. 
That doesnt to me look like one of the defined perils.
The builder who made the suggestions said to establish the cause of the damage its likely a 
structural surveyor would need to give an opinion. Mr F hasnt arranged for that to be done.
Without some evidence that a defined peril occurred, I cant say that AXA needs to do more 
than it already has. AXA has said it would look at the claim again if further evidence is 
provided, which is reasonable. It seems to me thats its Mr Fs decision to get a further 
report or not, and I can only leave that with him.My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman