DRN-4100847
The complaint
Miss S complaint is about delays by The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited in
transferring her pension to it from another pension provider.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 12 April 2023. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to uphold it 
in part were set out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant parts of it below, and it forms 
part of this final decision. 
Copy 
Miss S complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent his assessment of it
to both parties in November 2022. The background and circumstances to the complaint were
set out in that assessment. But to recap, Royal London received paperwork about the
transfer and a completed letter of authority on 3 December 2021. It sent them onto Miss S
existing pension provider (which I will refer to as Provider A) on 5 January 2022.
The signature on the letter of authority didnt match the signature Provider A had on its file.
So Provider A sent a letter to Royal London on 7 February 2022 asking for further
identification.
Miss S called Provider A to raise a complaint about the time it was taking to complete her
transfer on 22 February 2022. She also e-mailed it over the identification it required. Provider
A then sent the transfer quote and policy information to Royal London that same day, also
sending a copy of the quotation to Miss S.
This information was received by Royal London on 28 February 2022. Royal London sent
the transfer pack to Miss S on 9 March 2022. On 12 April 2022 Miss S complained to Royal
London about the time it was taking to complete the transfer. Royal London re-sent the
transfer forms to Miss S on the same date.
Royal London issued its response to the complaint on 19 April 2022. It apologised for the
delays in completing Miss S transfer and it offered her £300 in compensation for the distress
and inconvenience caused. Royal London also subsequently agreed to conduct a loss
assessment once the transfer was complete, to ensure Miss S had not been financially
disadvantaged.
Miss S completed transfer application form was received by Royal London on 27 May 2022.
The transfer request was made and a payment of £43,425.87 was made by bank transfer to
Royal London on 13 June 2022.
Provider A sent a letter to Miss S on 1 July 2022 explaining an MVR (Market Value
Reduction) of £2,382.60 had been applied to the transfer. Miss S contacted Royal London
requesting it compensate her for the amount of the MVR and also to chase for an update on
the loss assessment. Royal London responded to say it would offer Miss S additional
£200 in compensation for its delays in conducting a loss assessment. Royal London said it 
wouldnt pay the MVR of £2,382. It provided a copy of its loss assessment saying it showed 
Miss S hadnt suffered a loss as a result of its delays.
Miss S referred her complaint to us. Our investigator explained that our role, where it was
identified that a firm had made an error, was to try and put the complainant as far as
possible back into the position that they would have been in had the error not occurred.
The investigator noted Royal London had acknowledged the delays it had caused and had
offered Miss S a total of £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
The investigator thought this compensation was fair and fell within in line with what our
service would recommend for delays of this nature.
The investigator also noted that Royal London had carried out a loss assessment saying if it
were not for the delays on its part the earliest the transfer could have been completed was
12 May 2022. The investigator thought Royal Londons reasoning behind using this date was
reasonable in the circumstances. And that Royal Londons calculations showed that Miss S
was £651 better off when comparing her actual position with the position if the transfer had
been completed on 12 May 2022.
The investigator acknowledged Miss S comments that the MVR had changed significantly in
value during the course of the transfer process. And he noted Royal London had said it
would look to see if the MVR had increased between 12 May and 13 June 2022. The
investigator thought Royal London should acquire the MVR figures from Provider A and if the
value of the MVR on 12 May 2022 was less than what it was when the transfer was
completed, Royal London should compensate Miss S the difference.
Miss S didnt agree with the investigators findings. She said, in summary, that she hadnt
received £200 of the £500 Royal London had offered. And even after she was offered £300
as an apology for the delay on 19 April 2022, it had still taken just under eight weeks to
finalise the transfer which was well over the industry standard of 30-40 days. Miss S said the
transfer should have been completed by the end of January 2021 following her instruction in
December 2021. However it took over seven months - more than six times the maximum
amount of time it should have taken and she was being penalised for the delays.
Miss S said when she asked to transfer the funds she was told no MVR would be applied to
the plan. And it was due to the delays and mismanagement of both pension providers that
she was subject to the MVR  nearly 5% of the value of the plan. Miss S said the providers
used the Origo transfer system which was supposed to be more efficient.
The investigator responded to the points made by Miss S. He said, in summary, that he
expected Royal London to make payment of the additional £200 it had offered to Miss S. But
he thought the £500 overall was fair.
The investigator said looking at the timeline of events, he thought there were some factors
that neither pension providers were accountable for. He said the transfer pack was sent to
Miss S by email on 9 March 2022 and 12 April 2022. And by letter on 9 May 2022. However
Royal London hadnt received the completed forms back until 27 May 2022. The investigator
also noted there was an issue with Miss S signature not matching the one Provider A held 
on file. He said pension businesses had an obligation to ensure they carried out the
necessary security checks when processing a pension transfer. And he said the Origo
system had only started once the competed transfer forms had been received - the request
had been placed on 10 June 2022.The investigator subsequently provided a further response to Miss S saying, in summary,
that given the circumstances, he was satisfied that the earliest the transfer could have been
competed by was 12 May 2022 (but for the delays that Royal London were responsible for).
However the transfer value at 12 May 2022 was lower than that actually transferred (and the
MVR higher on 12 May 2022). So he didnt think that Miss S had suffered a financial loss as
a result of Royal Londons delays.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to largely the same conclusions as the investigator, and for the
same reasons. However I think Royal London should calculate whether Miss S has suffered
a loss using slightly different dates.
Section 228 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 requires that the ombudsman
determines a complaint by what is, in the opinion of the ombudsman, fair and reasonable in
all the circumstances of the case.
I understand Miss S position on the transfer as it took a lot longer than it can ordinarily take.
However the time taken for every transfer to complete will depend on the particular
circumstances surrounding it. And as Ive said, Im required to consider all the circumstances
to decide whats fair and reasonable.
Pension providers are expected to process requests to transfer in a timely manner. But it
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold pension providers responsible for delays that are
outside of their own control, and where they have acted reasonably but a particular set of
circumstances has resulted in delays to a transfer.
I recognise that Miss S first started the process to transfer in December 2021 and may have
been told that there was no MVR at that time or shortly after. But an MVR is applied at
transfer date. The transfer did take longer than would ordinarily be expected. But I think this
was a result of the particular circumstances surrounding the transfer, and as the investigator
explained, some of the reasons for the time taken were outside of Royal Londons control;
for example it e-mailed the first transfer pack to Miss S on 9 March 2022, however it didnt
receive the completed forms back until 27 May 2022  over 11 weeks. I accept that Miss S
may not have received them and other forms were resent, but equally, I dont think that was
Royal Londons error as they appear to have been correctly addressed.
Royal London acknowledged that it was responsible for some delays, including that when it
received Miss S transfer forms on 3 December 2021 it didnt contact Provider A until 5
January 2022; that it should have chased Provider A earlier after it had sent those forms;
and on receipt of the completed transfer application form on 27 May 2022 it should have put
the request on Origo in a timelier manner. It calculated that in total it was responsible for
delays of 36 working days, and said but for those delays, the earliest it could have
processed the transfer was 12 May 2022.
I agree with the delay periods that Royal London has acknowledged it was responsible for -
36 working days. However Im not currently sure I agree with the 12 May 2022 date using 
this 36 working day period. It appears to me that the 12 May 2022 date includes non-working
days. However if the delays are calculated on working days only, I think it follows that when
working back to the appropriate date the same principle should apply. So if Sundays are the
only non-working day, that would suggest the appropriate date working back from 16 June
2022 would be 5 May 2022. If Saturdays are also regarded as non-working days foradministration processing purposes, that would suggest 28 April 2022. I therefore think
Royal London should use whichever of these dates is appropriate to calculate loss, unless
there is an explanation for the use of the 12 May 2022 date. Royal London should confirm
whether Saturdays are counted as working days when responding to this provisional
decision.
I realise that Miss S will be disappointed with my decision given that this wont compensate
her for the losses that she is claiming. However in my view, taking all the above into account
and the delays that I think Royal London is reasonably responsible for, Im satisfied what I
have set out is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My provisional decision
Accordingly, my provisional decision is that I uphold Miss S complaint in part.
I went on to set out how I thought Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited should 
calculate and pay fair compensation to Miss S.
I asked Miss S and Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited to let me have any 
further evidence or arguments that they wanted me to consider before I made my final 
decision.
Miss S didnt accept the findings in my provisional decision. She said, in summary, that 
some of the information in the decision was not correct. She said the only time she had been 
advised of a delay due to her signature was when she started her complaint with the 
Ombudsman Service. And she received no such letter from either Royal London or provider 
A advising her there was a question over her signature or authorisation. 
She also said when she had asked about the MVR the person at Provider A couldnt explain 
it, and then she was told there would not be one applied. 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited didnt respond to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision. 
Ive considered what Miss S said in response to my provisional decision. However I dont 
think the points she raised are material to deciding the outcome of this complaint, which is 
against Royal London (rather than Provider A).
My final decision
Accordingly, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision reproduced above, my final 
decision is that I uphold Miss S complaint in part.
Royal London didnt respond to my provisional decision and didnt confirm if Saturdays were 
counted as working days for the processing of this transfer. So I order Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited to calculate what the transfer value of Miss S pension is worth at the date of this final decision, and compare it to what it would have been worth if the transfer 
had taken place on either 5 May 2022 (if Saturdays are a working day), or 28 April 2022 (if 
Saturdays arent a working day).
If the value assuming it had been transferred on the appropriate date (5 May 2022 or 28 
April) is higher, there is a loss, and Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited should 
pay into Miss S pension plan such an amount as to increase its value by the amount of the 
loss and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available 
tax relief. Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited shouldnt pay the compensation 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited is unable to pay the compensation into
Miss S pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay
into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should
be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Miss S actual or expected marginal rate
of tax at her selected retirement age. I think Miss S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at her
selected retirement age. So the reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax.
However, if Miss S would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should
be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum should be added to any loss calculated as the 
final decision date if settlement isnt made within 28 days of our service notifying Royal 
London of Miss S acceptance of this final decision.
Royal London offered Miss S £500 in total for the distress and inconvenience caused by the
matter. I think that offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited should pay Miss S the £500 if it hasnt already done so (or 
any amount of that £500 that it hasnt already paid to Miss S).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman