DRN-4437886
The complaint
Miss J is complaining that Marsh Finance Limited (MFL) shouldnt have lent to her  she 
says they were irresponsible in doing so.
What happened
In May 2022, Miss J took out a hire purchase agreement with MFL to finance the purchase 
of a vehicle. She paid a deposit of £500 and borrowed £19,980  the cash price of the 
vehicle was £20,480. The agreement required Miss J to make 59 monthly repayments of 
£528.29, followed by a final instalment of £627.29 (including a £99 option to purchase fee). 
In May 2023, Miss J complained to MFL, saying that she thought MFL had failed to conduct 
appropriate checks before lending to her. 
In response, MFL said theyd carried out a credit check before lending to Miss J. Miss J had 
met their lending criteria and had passed their automated affordability checks. 
Miss J was unhappy with MFLs response and brought her complaint to our service, saying 
she had three children and significant debt at the time of the application, whilst relying on 
benefits for her income. Our investigator upheld the complaint, saying he thought MFL hadnt 
done enough to check that the lending was affordable for Miss J. 
MFL werent happy with our investigators view. They said theyd reviewed Miss Js bank 
statements after the investigator had issued his view and they were satisfied Miss J had 
more than enough disposable income at the time of her application to warrant lending to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Miss Js complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator  Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did MFL carry out proportionate checks?
MFL said they carried out the following checks:
reviewed Miss Js credit file; and
carried out an automated affordability check.
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including the 
size and length of the loan, and what MFL found. At over £32,000, the total amount Miss J 
would have to repay was significant, and the term of the loan was five years. 
MFL have provided a summary of the data they looked at and of their automated affordability 
check. Although some of the data isnt clear, what is clear is that they noted Miss Js income 
as £1,200 per month, her monthly credit payments as £261, cost of housing as £227, and 
other cost of living expenditure as £310. Whilst the first figure seems to be based on what 
MFL saw on Miss Js credit report, the latter two appear to be estimates. 
These figures suggest that before at the time of her application, Miss Js disposable income 
after paying her creditors and for her housing and basic costs of living was £402 per month. 
So the £528 per month she needed to repay under this agreement appears to have been 
completely unaffordable for Miss J.
I dont think it was reasonable or proportionate for MFL to have lent to Miss J based on the 
results of these checks. 
If MFL had done proportionate checks, what would they have found?
Ive looked at statements for Miss Js bank accounts for the three months leading up to her 
application to MFL. Im not saying MFL needed to obtain bank statements as part of their 
lending checks. But in the absence of other information, bank statements provide a good 
indication of Miss Js income and expenditure at the time the lending decision was made.
Looking at these statements, I can see Miss Js only sources of regular income were from 
Universal Credit and Child Benefit. This was around £980. In addition, Miss J received child 
maintenance and ad-hoc financial assistance from a former partner - but the amounts were 
inconsistent. The same individual also asked Miss J to pay cash into her account on his 
behalf. Again these amounts varied significantly. Taking into account the total of cash 
receipts, income from and payments to this individual each month, it looks like the average 
across the three months was around £300. This figure is fairly typical of child maintenance 
arrangements, and also takes Miss Js total income to £1,280  which is around what she 
told MFL before they decided to lend to her.
In requesting a decision MFL pointed to money paid into Miss Js bank account from another 
individual in both March and April 2022. But all of these amounts are paid straight out to a 
third party almost immediately. So Ive not taken these into account when assessing Miss Js 
income.
In summary I think if MFL had done proportionate checks, they could reasonably have 
decided Miss J had regular income of £1,280.
I couldnt see any evidence of Miss J paying regular rent or council tax. Miss Js explained 
that she was living with her mother. I can see from her bank statements she was contributing 
around £50 per month to utilities. And she had other costs  each month she was spending 
around £150 on communications, £68 on car insurance, around £80 on fuel and around 
£300 on payments to creditors, so a total of £848 per month. Deducting this from the income 
figure above suggests Miss J had disposable income of £432 per month. This wouldnt have 
been enough to make monthly repayments of £528 as required by MFLs agreement. So Im 
satisfied if MFL had done proportionate checks they couldnt reasonably have decided to 
lend to Miss J.Putting things right
As I dont think MFL should have approved the loan, I dont think its fair for them to charge 
any interest or other charges under the agreement. But Miss J has had use of the vehicle for 
around 18 months to do so its fair she pays for that use. There isnt an exact formula for 
working out what amount would reflect a customers fair usage of a car. But in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable in Miss Js case Ive thought about the amount of interest charged 
on the agreement, Miss Js overall usage of the car, and what her costs to stay mobile would 
have likely been if he didnt have this car. 
In doing so, I think a fair amount Miss J should pay is £280 for each month she had use of 
the car, so a total of £5,040. To settle Miss Js complaint, MFL should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay. MFL will be entitled to collect the car.
Refund all the payments Miss J has made in excess of £5,040 (including the 
deposit), adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of each overpayment to 
the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Js credit file regarding the 
agreement.
If MFL consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award they should 
provide Miss J a certificate showing how much theyve taken off so that Miss J can reclaim 
that amount, assuming she is eligible to do so.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Js complaint. Marsh Finance Limited need to 
take the steps outlined above to settle the matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman