DRN-3926412
The complaint
Miss K complains Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) credit card app gave misleading 
information regarding her minimum monthly payment. 
What happened
Miss K says in October 2022 she made a manual payment of £26.66 representing the 
minimum payment due on her credit card account with Capital One that month. Miss K says 
her credit card app showed there was now no minimum payment due, but Capital One still 
went ahead and claimed the direct debit in early November 2022, which left her short of 
funds. Miss K says Capital One have informed her this was correct, but she feels the app 
should reflect the fact the direct debit will still be taken as it makes it difficult for her to budget 
fully.
Miss K wants Capital One to amend its credit card app to reflect what payments are due as 
its misleading and she wants compensation for this. 
Capital One says when the direct debit was set up in 2021, Miss K was informed that the 
minimum monthly direct debit payment would be collected unless the balance was paid off in 
full and any manual payments would count as additional payments. Capital One says this is 
also detailed In Miss Ks monthly statements. 
Miss K wasnt happy with Capital Ones response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Miss K was sent a letter when the direct debit was set up in 2021, which 
made clear the direct debit for the minimum payment would always be collected unless the 
balance of her credit card account was repaid in full. 
The investigator says additionally her credit card statement also mentioned if you make 
additional payments your direct debit will still be taken. The investigator also recognised that 
Capital One offered to return the direct debit payment for that month. The investigator says 
this service cant instruct or regulate service improvements, and Capital One have acted in 
line with its process. 
Miss K didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it may have been confusing for Miss K, having looked at her credit card 
app to believe her minimum monthly direct debit payment wouldnt be collected, given shed 
made a separate manual payment for this sum.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Capital One are at fault for Miss K believing it 
wouldnt collect her direct debit for her minimum monthly payment.
Miss Ks complaint centres around the fact Capital Ones credit card app is misleading and it 
led her to believe, having made a manual payment in October 2021 for £26.66, it wouldnt 
then collect her minimum monthly direct payment, as the app stated there was nothing due. 
While I understand the points Miss K makes here Im not fully persuaded by her argument. 
From the information I have seen while Miss K makes mention of the app stating nothing 
was due, she hasnt considered this isnt the primary or only source of information regarding 
how her direct debit for the  minimum monthly payment works. Firstly, when the direct debit 
was set up a letter was sent to Miss K in August 2021, in that letter it clearly states:
Well take your direct debit even if youve made additional payments, unless it would put 
your account into credit. 
Here, Miss Ks credit card account in October 2022 had an outstanding balance after she 
made her manual payment, so based on that its fair to say the direct debit would still be 
collected. Additionally, Miss Ks monthly credit card statement for October 2022, also states:
Your direct debit payment of £26.66 will be taken on or after 1 November 22. If you make 
additional payments, your direct debit will still be taken unless your balance is cleared in full, 
however we may reduce the amount we collect.
While Miss K feels the app is misleading, this has been considered by Capital One and it has 
said the app information is separate to the direct debit authority, and also the monthly 
statements with more detailed information are accessible on the app. 
Its worth saying that while Miss K may not like the way the information is presented on her 
credit card app, its not the role of this service to tell or instruct businesses how its systems 
or processes must operate. 
What is clear is Miss K is now aware how the minimum monthly payments operate and its 
fair to say it was her responsibility to read the information that was sent to her when the 
direct debit was originally set up and for her to check her monthly credit card statements or 
to have contacted Capital One if she was unsure. I can also see Capital One, having learned 
of Miss Ks misunderstanding, agreed to return the direct debit of £26.66 so Im satisfied it 
did try to help Miss K here. 
While Miss K will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Capital 
One. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman