DRN-3227884
Complaint
Miss M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly debited fees and charges 
from her account, which left her in a vicious cycle of fees that she couldnt break out of.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought HSBC should have realised 
that Miss M was in financial difficulty by December 2015 at the latest and so it needed to 
rework Miss Ms account to remove the effect of the interest, fees and charges it debited 
from this point onwards. 
HSBC disagreed with our adjudicators view. So the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and industry codes of practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
debiting interest, fees and overdraft charges from a customers account. So I dont consider 
it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I also think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued debiting interest, fees and associated charges from Miss Ms account from 
December 2015 onwards. 
While HSBC has focused on the nature of the transactions in December 2015 itself, the real 
issue here is that HSBC had already debited significant overlimit and returned item fees for a 
number of months in succession. So there was clear evidence of a pattern of Miss M 
developing a dependence on an unarranged overdraft. HSBC will be aware that the relevant 
guidance and industry codes of practice in place at the time makes it clear that an increasing 
dependence on an unauthorised overdraft  such as Miss Ms account was displaying  was 
considered a sign or an indication that a customer may be in financial difficulty. 
In these circumstances, I think that HSBC ought to have done more to establish Miss Ms 
financial position before debiting further charges. If it had done this here then it would have 
seen that this regular and repeated pattern of charges trapping Miss M in a cycle she was 
struggling to exit. And the charges themselves were taking up a significant portion of her 
income. So I think that by December 2015, HSBC should have realised that Miss M was 
struggling financially and treated her with forbearance rather than debiting even more fees 
and charges from her account. 
As HSBC didnt react to Miss Ms account usage and instead continued charging in the 
same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. And as this led to Miss M 
paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when she was already experiencing 
difficulty, Im satisfied that she lost out as a result of HSBC failing to act fairly and reasonably 
towards her. So HSBC needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Miss M
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ms complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ms account so that all interest, fees and charges applied to it 
from December 2015 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on Miss Ms account once these adjustments 
have been made HSBC should contact Miss M to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this. If HSBC considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Miss Ms credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started 
the process of taking corrective action on the account from December 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ms credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give    
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, upholding Miss Ms complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman