DRN-2675087
The complaint
Mr Ws complains about National Westminster Bank PLCs (NatWest) handling of a cheque 
which was deemed as counterfeit and its poor service.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr W had a cheque paid into his account, which was returned unpaid. Mr 
W called NatWest to ask why, to be told that it had been the issuing bank who had returned 
the cheque as it raised concerns that it was counterfeit, because of this, the cheque was 
destroyed. Mr W complained. His complaint was upheld because of the inconvenience he 
had experienced and because he had to contact NatWest by phone a few times. NatWest 
paid £30 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr W was dissatisfied and complained again saying that its staff were rude to him during a 
call. He also said that it would cost him £120 to get the cheque re-issued.
NatWest admitted that its customer service hadnt been up to its standard and upheld his 
complaint. It offered a further £150 compensation made up of the reimbursement for the re-
issued cheque and an additional £30 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr W was still unhappy as he felt that NatWest had provided poor customer service to him, 
had placed a marker on his credit file which made it difficult to open another bank account 
and he wasnt happy about the level of compensation offered. So, he brought the complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
NatWest had treated Mr W fairly. She concluded that NatWest were unable to represent the 
cheque as the cheque had been deemed fraudulent. And that the cheque had been returned 
by the issuing bank. 
Mr W didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 16 February 2021 and asked both parties to send me anything else 
by 18 March 2021. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, I intend not to uphold this complaint. I understand this is likely to come as a 
disappointment to Mr W, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision.
Mr Ws issues regarding his complaint relate to:
The returned cheque.
Behaviour of NatWest staff towards him.
Access to his money, once he had deposited the cheque.
Whether NatWest has recorded a marker on his file that prevented him from opening an 
account with other banks.
Level of compensation.
Returned cheque
I have been provided with a letter that Mr W received from NatWest advising him of the 
returned cheque. Included in it is a reason as to why and who returned the cheque: 
..The cheque(s) have been returned to us unpaid by the issuing bank(s) for the reasons 
stated below...
The reason given for the returned cheque was: suspected to be a fraudulent cheque 
discovered within the clearing cycle.  I think at this stage, NatWest had given an explanation 
to Mr W. 
But Mr W felt that the explanation given wasnt sufficient and called NatWest to get a fuller 
explanation. I have listened to the call. From the conversation, NatWest said that it was the 
issuing bank who returned the cheque as it believed it to be fraudulent. From the evidence I 
have seen, I agree. NatWest presented the cheque for payment and the cheque was 
returned by the issuing bank, who believed that the cheque was fraudulent. I think there was 
little else that NatWest couldve done in the circumstances. 
Behaviour of NatWest 
Mr W has also said that the advisor and the manager were rude to him and had kept him 
waiting on the phone for a long time. I have listened to the call. It was a lengthy call, but this 
was in part due to the advisor having to speak to various departments in her attempt to 
resolve the issue raised by Mr W. I agree that this took some time, but I dont think that the 
advisor was rude towards Mr W. I think she tried to assist him as best she could.
Despite this, NatWest has accepted that its level of customer service fell below the standard 
it wouldve expected and offered compensation of £180 in total.
Could Mr W access funds once he had paid the cheque in?
Mr W received the re-issued cheque and paid this into his account in December 2019. He 
said that he found it difficult to access funds and experienced financial difficulties as a result. 
He said that he believed that there was a block on the account that prevented him from 
accessing the funds and he couldnt see the funds in his account until much later.
NatWest has produced statements which show that the cheque was deposited, in December 
2019. From the evidence, I can see that Mr W began to use the funds immediately. NatWest 
has confirmed that there were no blocks on the account. I cant say why he experienced 
financial difficulties, but I am satisfied that because he had access to the funds, its unlikely 
that there was a block on the account. 
Was there a marker on Mr W credit file?I have next looked at whether Mr W had any form of marker on his credit file or any fraud 
marker on any of his accounts with NatWest. Mr W raised this as an issue as he said that he 
experienced difficulties in opening an account with four different banks and those banks had 
told him it was because NatWest had placed a marker on his account. 
NatWest has told us that it hadnt placed a marker in relation to the accounts he holds. From 
the evidence I can see that there arent any markers on Mr Ws credit file.  In addition, Mr W 
confirmed that on his credit file there were no markers. I cant say why Mr W found it hard to 
open a new account, but I am satisfied that NatWest hadnt placed any marker or block to 
prevent this from happening. 
As part of my review, I also asked Mr W to produce any evidence to show whether there is 
any information recorded by NatWest on any other databases. Our investigator gave him 
details of CIFAS. But even allowing for some delay, Mr W hasnt provided anything. So, Ive 
considered what I do have. 
NatWest has confirmed that it has not placed any marker or block on Mr Ws account and 
that he has been able to use the account normally. NatWest has provided copies of Mr Ws 
statements for the account he holds with them, for the past few months. Having reviewed 
this evidence, I am satisfied that Mr W was able to carry out several transactions, that I 
would expect to see if someone was able to access their account as normal. 
Mr W has accepted that he had been able to use his account as normal. But on occasion, he 
said he had trouble using his debit card as sometimes it was blocked. Mr W also said that he 
was unable to contact NatWest because he had raised a complaint against them with this 
service and it had told him that it wouldnt be able to talk to him.
NatWest has confirmed that as far as it is concerned, there are no issues with Mr Ws debit 
card. It has shown me further statements that indicate that Mr W has been able to use this 
card normally and as would be expected. Nor has it refused to communicate with Mr W. In 
the circumstances, I cant see why there is an issue with Mr Ws debit card. But I am 
satisfied that NatWest is willing to communicate with Mr W, if he chooses to. However, once 
a complaint is with us, the bank will usually leave it for this service to look into.
Level of compensation
I have next considered whether the level of compensation offered is fair. I think that it is. Not 
only did NatWest offer to pay for the cost of the re-issued cheque, but also offered an 
amount for the trouble and upset this event caused. 
Overall, I think that NatWest dealt with Mr Ws complaint fairly and reasonably and I am 
afraid that there are no reasonable grounds on which I can ask NatWest to do anymore to 
resolve this complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
  
Mr W responded and said that he was disappointed by the provisional decision. He said that 
the main issue was that he couldnt move his account to another bank, he had problems 
using his debit card and that he couldnt access his money. He felt that the whole process 
was a waste of time and that the complaint had nothing to do with the level of compensation 
that he had received. 
NatWest had nothing further to add to the provisional decision. I have carefully considered Mr Ws responses. In the provisional decision I reviewed all the 
evidence and the issues raised by Mr W. Whilst I appreciate that he now says that the main 
issues are with his ability to access his account and money without any restrictions, these 
points were covered in the provisional decision. 
Mr W was given details of CIFAS, for him to obtain evidence from there to see if NatWest 
had recorded any information on his file that prevented him from fully accessing and using 
his account. Or from opening an account with another bank. I understand that Mr W felt that 
this was the most important part of his complaint. But despite allowing Mr W sometime to 
obtain this evidence (including the additional time given before the final decision), he was 
unable to provide it. 
Consequently, the evidence before me doesnt suggest on balance, that NatWest hadnt 
placed any block on his account. Nor had it prevented Mr W from using his account as I 
would expect an account to be used. Additionally, there was no evidence that NatWest had 
placed a marker to prevent Mr W from opening an account with a different bank. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr W is, Im not 
satisfied that NatWest placed a block on his account and debit card. Or placed a marker on 
his file that prevented him from opening an account at another bank. I think that NatWest 
had dealt with Mr Ws complaint fairly. So, I cant ask NatWest to reasonably do anything 
more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I think the compensation of £180 which National Westminster 
Bank PLC has already paid, for the trouble and upset it caused, is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman