DRN-3465603
The complaint
Mr D is a sole trader, trading as F. He complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
did not reimburse the money he transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
What Mr D says
Mr D says that someone he knew and had worked with suggested they start a business 
together buying and selling cars. Ill refer to this person as M. M had a poor credit score, so 
the business, which Ill refer to as F, was in Mr Ds name. They agreed that profits would be 
halved. Mr D applied for a loan of £50,000 for the business.
M said he knew someone who could rent out space for them to store cars at a garage and 
Mr D has referred to a payment of £500 a month in respect of this. The cars were bought 
from online marketplaces and on some occasions, M gave Mr D payment details to buy the 
cars. Mr D says that the following payments were made by him or by M using his online 
banking details. 
Date Amount Recipient
02/07/20 £1 1
02/07/20 £1 2
02/07/20 £1 3
02/07/20 £1 2
06/07/20 £50,000 Loan credited
07/07/20 £980 1
09/07/20 £4,945 3
09/07/20 £5,480 1
09/07/20 £6,320 2
10/07/20 £5,740 3
10/07/20 £6,950 1
10/07/20 £7,500 2
14/07/20 £6,500 3
14/07/20 £5,350 2
TOTAL £49,769
After hed made these payments Mr D says he went abroad for a few weeks. When he 
returned the cars werent at the garage and he had difficulty in contacting M. Mr D says he 
tried to sort things out with M and his family and then reported the matter to the police and 
RBS.  
What RBS say
RBS say Mr D isnt the victim of a scam and this is a civil dispute. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
there was insufficient evidence to conclude Mr D was the victim of a scam. She agreed with 
the police and one of the receiving banks that this is a civil dispute between Mr D and M. 
This was because there was no evidence of a business relationship with M or of F being set 
up or trading and no online presence. Also, the payments were made to two different 
payees, two of which had the word Food in the name (recipients two and three in the table 
above) and there was no explanation for this. Mr D also didnt see the cars that had been 
bought or receive a profit from the sale of any of them. 
Mr D didnt agree with what the investigator said so the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider. He said he needs the money back. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable Im required to take in account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. Where there is a 
dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ive reached 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
Was Mr D the victim of a scam? 
In order to make a decision on whether Mr D is entitled to a refund, I need to start by 
establishing whether I think its more likely than not he was the victim of a scam. I fully 
accept that Mr D has potentially lost a lot of money. But that doesnt necessarily mean he 
was the victim of a scam. To be satisfied Mr D was the victim of a scam I need to be 
persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, M deceived Mr D into making each payment for 
Ms financial gain.
Mr D says that he was tricked into starting a business with M, taking out a £50,000 loan for 
that business and then transferring those funds  he believed to buy cars to sell. But in fact, 
the funds went to accounts Mr D thinks M controlled.
Its not clear exactly what happened in this case. There is very little evidence and Mr D 
hasnt always been clear. He also says he has lost the mobile phone he used at the time the 
payments were made and so no longer has evidence from it. When there is a lack of 
evidence or incomplete evidence, I only have to reach my decision based on what I think is 
most likely. Having done so, Im not persuaded that Mr D was the victim of a scam. 
I havent been provided with any evidence that Mr D and M went into business together or of 
the terms of any business relationship. There are various legal obligations in terms of tax 
and insurance when a business is set up, but Mr D hasnt been able to provide any evidence 
in respect of such matters. And I cant find an online presence for F. So, Im not persuaded 
that Mr D was tricked into setting up a business in the first instance. 
I also find the nature of the payments Mr D made to be odd for a business involved in buying 
and selling cars. Of the three beneficiaries Mr D paid funds to, only one is involved with cars in any way. The other two beneficiaries each had Food in their names. Given this, I find it 
hard to accept that Mr D was duped into paying these two beneficiaries for the purpose of 
buying cars. 
There are other things that are unexplained. Mr D says that M advised him to buy cars from 
online marketplaces. If this were the case, Id expect Mr D to pay different beneficiaries on 
each occasion, but he paid three payees on multiple occasions. Mr D also didnt see any of 
the cars his payments were meant to have bought and although Mr D has referred to a rental 
agreement to store the cars at a garage and to payment for this, there is no evidence of the 
agreement and Mr Ds statement doesnt show any payments for the rental amount. Also, Mr 
D didnt report the matter to RBS for some months. He said this was because he was trying 
to sort the matter out with Ms family. This suggests to me its more likely that Mr Ds 
relationship with M broke down.
Finally, Ive seen evidence from one of the receiving banks that it has treated this matter as 
a civil dispute, and this was also the conclusion reached by the police. 
I note Mr D says that he knows of someone else who was scammed by M and has provided 
a screenshot to show that a payment was made to a certain account. The screenshot isnt 
enough to demonstrate that the other person was fraudulently persuaded to make the 
payment though, or what the payment was for. And it doesnt prove Mr D was the victim of a 
scam.
Is Mr D entitled to a refund under the CRM Code? 
RBS is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Code (the 
CRM Code). The CRM Code requires RBS to refund customers who have been the victims 
of a scam, with some limited exceptions. However, the CRM Code is quite clear that it does 
not apply to payments that werent made as the result of a scam or fraud. 
On the basis that I cant safely conclude Mr D was the victim of a scam, I cant apply the 
CRM Code or ask RBS to refund him. But I have gone on to consider whether RBS could 
have done more to prevent the payments from being made in the first place. 
Should RBS have prevented Mr D from making the payments? 
There is an obligation on RBS to be on the lookout for, and to protect its customers from, 
potentially falling victim to fraud or scams. This includes monitoring accounts and identifying 
suspicious activity that appears unusual and out of character. In situations when potential 
fraud is identified, I would expect RBS to intervene and attempt to prevent losses for the 
customer. 
In this case, there was very little activity on the account prior to the transactions in question. 
The account was opened on 30 June 2020. Over the next few days there were a small 
number of transfers of up to £3 before the £50,000 loan was credited on 6 July 2020. The 
payments Mr D says were made as part of the scam were then made immediately after, to 
payees that were created in the days before the loan hit Mr Ds account. So there was no 
activity on the account for RBS to determine what was normal for Mr D. I also consider that 
payments out of an account after receipt of a loan is normal activity that wouldnt have 
concerned RBS any concern. Overall, I consider RBS acted reasonably in processing these 
payments.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman