DRN-4499598
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt process their 
Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) properly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements of that provisional decision below, and they form part of 
this final decision.
Mr and Mrs N contacted Halifax in January 2022 asking for a DSAR to be completed on a 
personal loan ending 509-5 as they wanted a copy of the credit agreement  and a 
statement of the account. 
Halifax wrote to Mr and Mrs N to say they couldnt identify a loan account with the details 
theyd provided.
Mr and Mrs N wrote back, providing a copy of the credit agreement from an earlier request  
reiterating their request for a statement of the account.
Halifax ultimately wrote back having now found the details. They explained loan 509-5 
became 127-0 once a payment protection insurance claim had been processed  as the 
previous loan had to be settled, and a new one opened. They said sorry for not finding 
Mr and Mrs Ns credit agreement the first time and said this was on an old system. Halifax 
also provided £100 compensation. 
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs N brought their complaint to us, saying their loan never 
existed so they should be refunded the loan amount of £10,000.
In a separate decision, I dismissed that complaint as wed previously considered it. In this 
decision, Ive considered their concerns regarding the DSAR.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to emphasise Im only going to be considering Mr and Mrs Ns concerns 
about the delay in providing the credit agreement and statement of loan accounts. I say that 
because theyve linked this issue to a reason why they should be refunded the £10,000 loan 
granted under 509-5. But, as Ive set out above, Ive already decided we shouldnt consider 
that issue further.
Halifax have explained the reason for the error was because some of the loan information 
was contained in a system they havent used since 2004. They said despite this, the loan 
processing team could have done more to find the loans. 
Its helpful that Halifax have explained what the issue was  and I agree Halifaxs loan 
processing team could have done more.
So, as Halifax accepts theyve made an error, I now need to consider the impact of this error 
on Mr and Mrs N.
The only real impact on Mr and Mrs N, as far as I can see, is they believed this meant their 
loan should be refunded because it never existed. But this is a loan Mr and Mrs N have 
complained about on several occasions before  and in an outcome we issued in 2016 we 
said theyd received the proceeds from the loan, and had been repaying it. So, we didnt 
think they should be refunded any of the funds.
Given that, I think the impact is relatively limited in nature  as it seems they needed to 
contact Halifax to provide more information so the credit agreement and loan statements 
could be found. And, having done so, the documents were then provided without delay.
In the circumstances, Im currently satisfied Halifaxs payment of £100 is fair to resolve this 
complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Halifax queried why I said I was upholding the complaint, when Id decided what theyd done 
was fair.
Mr and Mrs N provided more documents, including amongst others:
A secured loan agreement for £30,000
Another secured loan agreement for £23,000
Further documents regarding their personal loan ending 509-5
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the information provided by Mr and Mrs N and I cant see any of it relates to 
this specific complaint.
In respect of the two secured loans, weve explained these issues will be handled 
separately. So, if Mr and Mrs N were providing them for that purpose, then I thank them and 
will ensure theyre passed on.
For the personal loan ending 509-5 I have explained in a separate decision why I dont think 
our service needs to consider that complaint  and nothing Mr and Mrs N have provided now 
makes me think this was the wrong outcome.
Turning back now to this specific case, as Mr and Mrs N havent provided any further 
information, I remain of the opinion the outcome Halifax reached by paying Mr and Mrs N 
£100 is fair  and have now corrected this in my final decision outcome.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax have already paid fair compensation of £100 to 
resolve matters, so I dont require them to do anything further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman