DRN-2116612
The complaint
Mrs C says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma (Satsuma), 
irresponsibly lent to her. Mrs C has said the lending was unaffordable for her and Satsuma 
didnt carry out sufficient affordability checks. Mrs C says got into a spiral of debt and her 
already poor financial situation worsened as a result of the borrowing. 
What happened
This complaint is about two short-term loans Satsuma provided to Mrs C between 
September 2015 and March 2017. Mrs Cs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan 
No:Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidWeekly 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountHighest Monthly 
Repayment
1 18/09/2015 25/05/2016 52 £700.00 £110.85
2 23/03/2017 31/10/2017 52 £800.00 £132.69
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. They thought the checks Satsuma had 
carried out before lending to her were reasonable and the information it obtained wouldnt 
have given it any cause to reconsider giving Mrs C the loans. It wouldnt have been 
proportionate for Satsuma to have asked Mrs C for the amount of information needed to 
have shown the lending was unsustainable for her. 
Mrs C didnt agree with the adjudicator and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs C 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mrs C could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint. After doing so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
I should first say I am satisfied that these are two separate loans and not a chain in lending. I 
say this because of the ten month break between loan one being repaid and loan two being 
taken. I think this was a sufficient enough length of time for Satsuma to have reasonably 
concluded that Mrs C had resolved whatever financial difficulties she may have been in that 
had caused her to take this type of lending at the outset. 
Satsuma has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving the loans. 
This included information about Mrs Cs income and expenditure to assess whether the 
loans were affordable for her. Satsuma also carried out credit checks.
For the first loan Mrs Cs income was recorded as being around £1,620 per month. Satsuma 
manually asked for evidence of Mrs Cs income. After taking account of Mrs Cs expenditure 
to which Satsuma added a safeguard buffer amount this would leave Mrs C with a 
disposable monthly income of around £207 after taking account of the monthly loan 
repayment. On this basis, I dont think the loan looks unaffordable on a pounds and pence 
basis. 
For loan two, Mrs Cs monthly income was recorded as being around £1,700. Again, after 
taking account of Mrs Cs expenditure, Satsuma adding a buffer and taking account of the 
loan repayment I think the loan looks affordable. In addition, the credit checks for both of the 
loans didnt show any other short-term lending commitments, any adverse credit records 
such as arrears, IVAs, county court judgments or debt management plans. As Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. And I dont think there was anything in the 
information that Mrs C provided to Satsuma which would have caused it to be concerned 
that she was having problems managing her finances.
Its possible that Mrs Cs financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information she provided, or any other information Satsuma obtained. And if her 
circumstances were different Mrs Cs actual financial position may well have been more 
apparent if further information had been obtained. But I dont think there is anything in the 
information Mrs C gave and Satsuma obtained  including the additional income checks it 
carried out - that would have caused it to look further into Mrs Cs financial situation. 
Satsuma could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
That information  and the fact the loans were at the beginning of the lending relationship  I 
dont think indicated there was a greater risk of the loans being unaffordable or 
unsustainable for Mrs C. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Satsuma needed to take any further steps to verify the 
information provided. I have considered the information that was provided to, and obtained 
by, Satsuma before it lent to Mrs C. And there isnt anything in this information that may 
have led Satsuma to conclude that it should decline Mrs Cs applications for the loans. And 
there isnt anything to have prompted it to ask for more information about Mrs C. So, I dont 
think Satsuma was wrong to have provided these loans, based sold on the information it 
had. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Satsuma did for these loans was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend to Mrs C wasnt unreasonable. I appreciate my 
conclusion to Mrs Cs complaint will be a disappointment to her, but I hope I have managed 
to explain how and why Ive reached it.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman