DRN-3709712
The complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral Financial Services Ltd allowed a third party to take out a loan in 
his name, caused delays investigating the issue and failed to delete all record of the 
fraudulent loan with the credit reference agencies. Mr S has asked for compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this issue has caused him. 
Mr S is being represented by Ms J  but for ease of reading Ill only refer to Mr S in the 
decision. 
What happened
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that Admiral 
had fairly written off the loan and had made the credit reference agencies aware that this 
should be removed from his credit file. The investigator said that Admiral had caused delays 
when investigating the claim but the £100 it had offered was fair. 
Mr S disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said his health had been 
affected by this issue and he had missed out on a good mortgage rate. He wants Admiral to 
pay for the additional costs he has suffered due to losing his mortgage rate and having to 
pay a mortgage broker. Mr S added that he also had to take two weeks leave from work 
which cost him £1,500 in earnings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that this loan was taken out fraudulently. Admiral has cleared the loan and 
confirmed it will not be holding Mr S responsible. 
Ive considered whether Admiral did sufficient checks when it accepted the loan. Admiral 
said it completed all the relevant checks but found no reason to decline the application. So, 
Im not satisfied Admiral did anything wrong by accepting the application. 
Mr S has said that Admiral was too slow to remove the loan from his credit file which 
increased the cost of his mortgage. Admiral has said it cleared the information directly from 
two of the three credit reference agencies it works with in March 2022. But it had to ask the 
third credit reference agency to remove the information. And that meant the information 
wasnt removed as quickly as the other two in March 2022. 
But I dont think Admiral did anything wrong when it told Mr S that it had asked the third 
credit reference agency to remove the adverse information from his file on 18 March 2022. I 
can see that Admiral had confirmed this had been requested. And I note from the screenshot 
provided by Mr S from a mortgage broker, dated 31 March 2022, that there were other loan 
providers mentioned on his credit file with arrears and another default. So, I dont think I can 
reasonably ask Admiral to cover any further costs in trying to obtain a loan or mortgage in 
late March 2022. 
Ive seen there was a delay of a few weeks in January 2022 while the fraud was 
investigated. Admiral has admitted that it caused a slight delay here and paid £100 for any 
distress and inconvenience it caused.
I agree there was a slight delay investigating the issue on Admirals part  but Admiral has 
offered £100 for that delay. This seems reasonable to me based upon what Ive said above 
and in line with what Id expect in similar cases. 
So, Im not going to ask Admiral to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman