DRN-3586937
The complaint
Mr K complains that MBNA Limited acted unfairly when he brought a claim under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) about goods and services he paid for using his 
MBNA credit card
What happened
In May 2021 Mr K used his MBNA credit card to pay over £1,500 to a supplier (that Ill call S) 
to service his car and carry out associated repairs. When he got the car back Mr K found the 
automatic start/stop function wasnt working in stationary traffic. He contacted S, who didnt 
help, and he complained to MBNA who asked for additional evidence. Mr K obtained a report 
from a third party garage (TPG) in September 2021 and supplied this to MBNA. The TPG 
said stop/start wasnt working but diagnostic tests showed no fault with this function and the 
issue was probably due to the car battery which was failing and should be replaced.
MBNA credited just over £300 to Mr Ks account to cover the cost of a new battery (about 
£250) and the TPG inspection (£60). MBNA didnt think it should have to do anything else as 
Mr K had use of the car throughout, section 75 doesnt cover distress and inconvenience 
and the refund put Mr K in a better position than he would have been otherwise (because he 
would have had to pay for the battery if this had been discovered during the service).
Mr K didnt think that was fair. He says he paid for a 12 months service but his car didnt 
function properly for about four months because S failed to do this properly. He wanted 
MBNA to provide a corresponding partial refund of the total cost of work and he referred the 
matter to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thinks MBNAs offer 
is fair. He found no evidence to suggest that S caused the start/stop function to stop 
working. He acknowledged Mr K thinks a 12 month service should provide seamless vehicle 
performance through the following year, but he didnt agree. He thought problems can still 
occur after a successful service. He wasnt persuaded there was a breach of contract here 
and he didnt think it would be fair to require MBNA to do more than it has already.
Mr K was disappointed with the investigators findings and said, in summary:- 
he accepts S didnt cause the battery to malfunction but S should have identified the 
problem and brought it to his attention - as the TPG suggested;
the car went in for a major (12 months or 10,000 miles) service that cost over £1,500 
and its reasonable to expect S to check all normal functions - including stop/start - 
and rectify any issues; 
it would have been clear that stop/start wasnt working on a test drive so this should 
have been brought to his attention at the time; 
start/stop is not a health and safety issue but its intended to reduce carbon 
emissions and thats important to him; 
having paid for a 12 month service he was entitled expect the car to perform properly 
during this time and, instead, the one year service only lasted about seven months; 
he had to drive a faulty car for over four months as a direct consequence of Ss 
failure to service it properly; and 
MBNA should compensate him accordingly.
Mr K asked for an ombudsman to review the matter so it was passed to me for a decision. 
Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators. So, I issued a provisional decision on 
22 June 2022 to let the parties see my provisional conclusions (and respond if they wanted 
to) before I made my final decision. Ive set out what I decided provisionally - and why - 
below and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I can see that Mr K feels strongly about this matter and I want to assure him that I have
considered everything thats been said and sent to us. If I dont address every single point
thats been raised its not because I havent thought about it. I have. But, Im going to
concentrate here on what I think is key to reaching and fair and reasonable outcome overall.
The rules of our service (which provides alternative dispute resolution thats free for
complainants) allow me to do this.
From the evidence Ive got, it looks as if Mr K paid S over £1,500 to service his car and
undertake some additional work and he found the stop/start function wasnt working not long
after that. There seems to be no dispute now that the problem was caused by a failing
battery and Mr K thinks this is something that S should have picked up during the course of
the service. 
Mr K brings his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service under section 75 because he
paid S using his MBNA credit card. And section 75 provides that a borrower may be able to
bring an equal claim under an agreement with a supplier against a credit provider - where
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
I should make it clear that my role here is to look at whether MBNA has taken appropriate
steps in response to Mr Ks section 75 claim. I make my decision based on what I consider
to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But, in doing so, Im required to take taking
relevant law (among other things) into account. Its not my job to apply the law however, only
a court can do that.
Section 75 only applies in certain specific circumstances. One of the strict requirements is 
that a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (d-c-s) link must exist. MBNA seems to accept that the 
necessary relationship was in place here so Ive gone on to consider whether there was a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by S.
In order for me to find theres been a misrepresentation, Id need to be satisfied that S told
Mr K something untrue and he reasonably relied on that when he entered the agreement
with S for his car to be serviced and repaired. Ive seen nothing to suggest thats what
happened here. Mr K hasnt said, for example, that S told him nothing would go wrong with
the car for the next 12 months if he had the service. And, on the current evidence, Im not
persuaded theres been a misrepresentation. As I understand it, Mr K says S was in breach of contract because it failed to notice the
battery was failing and tell him this needed replacing. Mr K considers he didnt therefore get
the 12 months service he paid for - because this failure meant he had to drive a car with a
faulty stop/start function for just over four months. I havent seen any paperwork relating to 
the service or other work undertaken  the parties havent supplied a copy of the service 
contract or any job cards or relevant written terms and conditions. Im satisfied however that 
S was required (under the Consumer Rights Act 2015) to ensure that any goods provided of 
satisfactory quality and services were carried out with reasonable skill and care.  
Mr K accepts that S didnt cause the stop/start problem - theres no suggestion that this was
due to goods or services that S provided. Instead Mr K suggests, I think, that the failing
battery should have been identified at the service and reported to him as a matter of good
practice. He refers to the TPGs comment that it would have advised Mr K of the failing
battery if it had carried out the service. And I accept the TPG says it would have flagged this
issue if found. But, I cant see that the TPG says the battery (or stop/start) should have
been checked routinely during this sort of service. Nor have I seen any details of what S said
the service would cover exactly. 
It looks as if Mr K expected the 12 month service to mean that the car would perform
satisfactorily for the next 12 months. Ive seen nothing to show that S guaranteed this  and I
find it unlikely S would have done so. I think the reference to 12 months in this context is
usually retrospective - in that the service in question was due after 12 months of use or
10,000 miles, whichever was soonest. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that there are sufficient grounds to
reasonably conclude that there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract by S here.
However, even if Im wrong about that, Im minded to agree with the investigator that MBNA
has already provided a reasonable response to Mr Ks complaint. I say this because Mr K 
appears to have had the use of the vehicle throughout  albeit without the stop/start function. 
I appreciate Mr K says this was important to him - so the lack of  functionality probably 
caused some impaired use and upset and inconvenience. But, Id be unlikely to award more 
than £250 compensation in this situation. Im satisfied that MBNA has already paid Mr K over 
£300 - for the cost of a replacement battery and the TPG report. And Mr K would have had 
to pay for the battery replacement himself - if S had flagged this up during the service. So, 
taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that I cant reasonably require MBNA to do 
anything further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to let me have any further comments or new information by 6 July 2022 
and explained that Id review all the evidence available after that and make my final decision. 
Id like to thank both parties for their responses. MBNA has nothing further to add and Mr Ks 
made one final observation. He thinks S should have taken the car for a test drive after such 
a major service - in which case it would have been obvious that stop/start wasnt working 
which should have been brought to his attention  and failure to undertake a test drive was 
careless and/or negligent. Either way, he feels S failed in its duty of care to him as a 
customer and was in breach of contract.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but nothing hes said has persuaded me to change my mind. For 
the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, Im not satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation here. And, even I were to find S did something 
wrong, I consider MBNA has already provided a fair response so I cant reasonably require it 
to do anything else. 
I realise this decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr K, as its not the outcome 
he hoped for. Mr K is not obliged however to accept what Ive said  in which case, it 
remains open to him to pursue the matter by any other means available. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman