DRN-4280448
The complaint
Mr B complains that Vitality Health Limited paid invoices under his private medical insurance 
policy when he did not want it to.
What happened
Mr B holds private medical insurance cover with Vitality. After Mr B had private treatment, 
Vitality received invoices from Mr Bs consultant which it paid (less the excess). Mr B was 
unhappy about this, as he said he had not wanted to make a claim and had only made 
enquiries with Vitality to see whether the treatment would be covered. Since then, Mr Bs 
policy has renewed, and his premiums have increased due to the claim.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Mr B had made it clear 
to Vitality that he was unsure as to whether or not he would be making a claim. Our 
investigator thought Vitality therefore ought to have checked with Mr B before paying the 
invoices. To put matters right, he recommended that Vitality allow Mr B to repay the invoices, 
and then adjust his premiums since renewal to reflect this. He also thought Vitality should 
pay Mr B £100 compensation for the inconvenience he had been caused.
I issued my provisional decision on 19 July 2023. Heres what I said:
The policy makes it clear that Vitality will not allow invoices it has paid to be paid back in 
order to achieve a lower claims band. However, the issue here is whether Vitality should 
have paid those invoices in the first place. Ive therefore listened to the phone calls between 
Mr B and Vitality.
In the first call, Vitality said it understood that Mr B wanted to set up a new claim. Mr B said 
he wanted to explore the possibilities. He said he wasnt sure if he was going to go through 
with the treatment privately or not, but probably would do. Vitality explained that it needed 
further information from Mr Bs GP before it could authorise the treatment.
Mr B then called Vitality again. He said he was waiting for a possible claim to be authorised, 
and wanted to know whether it was worth putting through the claim and its likely impact on 
his future premiums. He thought the cost of the treatment would be around £950 (after 
deducting the excess). Vitality explained that this would result in a 12.5% increase, not 
including any increase for age or base rate. Mr B ended the call by saying he would need to 
do his sums and make his mind up.
I agree with our investigator that Mr B was undecided at the time about whether to claim for 
his treatment. Though its also the case that he had asked Vitality to authorise the treatment, 
and was aware that Vitality was making enquiries with his GP about this. Vitality then wrote 
to Mr B on 1 June to confirm that it had authorised the treatment with his consultant.
The matter would not have gone any further if Vitality had not received invoices from the 
treating consultant. However, Vitality did receive invoices, and it paid them because it had 
authorised the treatment. That is what I would have expected Vitality to do. If Mr B hadnt 
wanted Vitality to pay for the treatment, I think he should have made it clear to his consultant 
that he would be self-funding. Alternatively, he could have told Vitality hed decided not to 
claim, and the claim would have been cancelled.
Mr B says he didnt tell his consultant that he had a policy with Vitality. He is of the view that 
his consultant or their secretary only became aware of his policy because Vitality had 
contacted his consultant directly.
I asked Vitality whether it had contacted Mr Bs consultant, and it confirmed it did not. Vitality 
says the consultants secretary called it on 30 May to find out Mr Bs plan details (which is 
not unusual), and Vitality provided this information. Vitality no longer has the call of 30 May, 
but its call notes make it clear that it had received an inbound call from the consultants 
secretary, and they wanted to know Mr Bs policy details.
In these circumstances, I dont find that Vitality did anything wrong. It had authorised
treatment in line with the policy terms, and then paid the invoices it subsequently received 
for that treatment (after deducting the excess).
Mr B has also complained about the length of time that Vitality took to consider his
complaint. Although Vitality did take a long time to provide him with its final response, I see 
that it wrote to him within eight weeks of his complaint to inform him that he could bring his 
complaint to this Service, as it was required to do.
Finally, Mr B has advised this Service that Vitality has received a further invoice that it has 
treated as a claim, which he had intended to self-fund. If Mr B wishes to complain to Vitality 
about this, he should raise his concerns with Vitality in the first instance.
I asked both parties for any comments they wished to make before I made a final decision. 
Mr B responded and made the following main points:
He provided a copy of two billing statements sent by Vitality dated 7 July 2023, and 
says he thinks these show that Vitality has accepted his complaint is justified. 
He thinks he made it clear to Vitality that: - he would be having treatment; he hadnt 
asked Vitality to pay for it; he would probably meet the cost of the treatment himself; 
and he might decide to submit a claim when he reviewed the financial issues 
involved. 
As his phone calls with Vitality ended with him indicating that he was still undecided 
whether or not to claim, there was no need for him to have further contact with 
Vitality.
He maintains that he did not inform the hospital of his policy with Vitality, and that 
bills were to be sent to his home address. He says that Vitalitys claim that his 
consultants secretary called it on 30 May cannot be correct.
Vitality responded to say it accepted my provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the billing statements recently sent to Mr B. These say that Vitality wouldnt be 
paying the bills it had received relating to the treatment in May 2022 because it hadnt 
authorised the treatment. I dont know why Vitality has sent this information to Mr B, given 
that the invoices were previously paid (which is the subject of this complaint). I would 
suggest he contacts Vitality directly about this. I do not agree with Mr B that he made it clear to Vitality that he would probably meet the cost 
of the treatment himself. I explained in my provisional decision that I accept he was 
undecided whether to make a claim when he spoke to Vitality. However, Vitality then 
authorised the treatment and paid the invoices it received, which is what Id expect. I 
therefore remain of the view that Vitality didnt do anything wrong here.
Ive explained in my provisional decision why Im satisfied Vitality has shown that Mr Bs 
consultants secretary contacted it on 30 May. I havent seen any evidence to support that 
Vitality contacted the hospital or Mr Bs consultant, and Vitality denies doing so. As Mr B 
says he didnt inform the hospital that he had a policy with Vitality and that bills were to be 
sent to his home address, I think he should raise any concerns he has about this directly 
with the hospital.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman