DRN-3133271
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the way Herts Insurance Consultants Ltd (Herts) handled the 
cancellation of his car insurance policy. He says he didnt know his policy had been 
cancelled until after the cancellation date. 
Herts has delegated authority to deal with the administration of Mr Ps policy on behalf of the 
insurer.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr P bought a car insurance policy through a broker, Herts. He bought it 
online via a comparison website. 
Herts contacted Mr P a couple of days later as it checked a claims recording database which 
insurers use to help prevent fraud. It discovered an incident was recorded on the database 
which Mr P hadnt disclosed when he bought the policy. 
On 8 October 2019 Herts emailed and wrote to Mr P asking him to contact it to discuss his 
policy  and it gave him seven days notice of cancellation if it couldnt resolve the issue or 
didnt hear from him. 
Herts said it also tried to speak to Mr P and sent him a text message in the time leading up 
to the cancellation date of 15 October 2019. As it didnt hear from Mr P, Herts arranged the 
cancellation of the policy on behalf of the insurer. On 17 October 2019 Herts emailed Mr P to 
confirm the cancellation and that he was no longer insured. 
Mr P says he didnt receive any communication from Herts until he received the email after 
his policy had been cancelled. He was unhappy about the cancellation, but decided not to 
complain about it at the time. 
Around a year later Mr P found it difficult to buy cover from his preferred insurers. He raised 
a complaint with Herts about the way it had cancelled his policy. He was unhappy that he 
had to declare the cancellation to other insurers and he said this meant the price hed need 
to pay for cover was much higher. Mr P was unhappy that Herts had used data hed 
provided via the comparison website under previous quotes and he believed it had breached 
data protection rules. 
Herts didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said it had given Mr P sufficient notice of cancellation 
and made several attempts to contact him before it cancelled his policy. It said it had acted 
in line with the terms of the policy and the terms of business Mr P had agreed to before 
buying the policy. 
Mr P remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator was satisfied 
that Herts had fairly cancelled Mr Ps policy. 
Mr P didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Herts has provided screenshots of its system notes recording its contact with Mr P. This 
shows that Herts sent an email and letter to Mr P on 8 October 2019  and its provided a 
copy of the letter. In the letter Herts asked Mr P to call it in order to prevent his policy from 
being cancelled due to significant discrepancies which it had identified. It warned in the letter 
that Mr Ps policy was at risk of being cancelled on 15 October 2019 if it didnt hear from him.
Herts has also provided screenshots showing a record of sending text messages and 
attempts to call the mobile number it held for Mr P on 8, 9 and 15 October 2019. 
I understand that Mr P says he didnt receive anything from Herts until he received an email 
after his policy had been cancelled. And hes unhappy that we have accepted the 
information provided by Herts. He doesnt believe this is fair or impartial. 
When an insurer or broker cancels a policy, we look at whether its actions were fair and 
reasonable before doing so. I dont know why Mr P didnt receive the email on 8 October 
2019, but did receive the email sent on 17 October 2019, nor can I say why he didnt receive 
any calls or messages from Herts. But in this case, Im satisfied that Herts has provided 
reasonable evidence to show that it made a number of attempts to contact Mr P before it 
cancelled his policy. And so it follows that I cannot conclude that Herts acted unreasonably 
when it carried out the cancellation of Mr Ps policy. 
When Mr P contacted us about his complaint, he was concerned that the reason why Herts 
had cancelled his policy would have a further impact  as he understood it had cancelled his 
policy for misrepresentation. 
I can understand Mr Ps concerns. Herts has confirmed that it hasnt recorded the 
cancellation or an avoidance against Mr P. But Mr P says this doesnt change the fact that 
insurers ask if a customer has had an insurance policy previously cancelled. I agree with Mr 
P. But as Ive said, I dont think Herts acted unfairly when it cancelled his policy on behalf of 
the insurer. 
Mr P is unhappy with the sharing of his personal information from the comparison website 
and believes Herts has breached data protection rules. I cannot make a finding as to 
whether Herts has breached these rules. Mr P can contact the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) about his concerns. Their details can be found here: https://ico.org.uk/
I appreciate that Mr P will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think Herts has 
provided reasonable evidence to show that it used different methods to contact Mr P before 
it cancelled his policy on behalf of the insurer. So this means I dont think it needs to do any 
more  and the cancellation stands. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman