DRN-2818728
The complaint
Mr P complains about the installation and quality of a brand new kitchen he bought using a 
fixed sum loan agreement with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance.
What happened
In early 2019, Mr P bought a new kitchen from a high street supplier. To pay for the kitchen 
and its fitting, Mr P agreed to take out a fixed sum loan with Clydesdale. By the end of May 
2019, the supplier had started work on Mr Ps new kitchen. 
But in June 2019, Mr P became concerned that the sink provided by the supplier, wouldnt sit 
flush with the worktop hed ordered. Mr P also asked the supplier about an extractor fan and 
some other items which werent originally included in the plan, and some other items that 
needed replacing.
The supplier offered to provide and replace the other items at no extra cost to Mr P, but not 
the extractor fan. They said an extractor fan wasnt part of the original plan for the kitchen. 
The supplier also gave Mr P reassurance over the worktop being compatible with the sink. 
However, when the worktop was fitted in July 2019, Mr P raised concerns about how it had 
been installed. Around a month later, the supplier had carried out an inspection and had 
arranged for the worktop to be repaired. Whilst waiting for the repair, Mr P says he was 
unable to use the kitchen.
Although remedial work had been done, Mr P complained that some of the kitchen wall units 
hadnt been fitted according the plan. Mr P also said that a tap was leaking, the feet of the 
floor units werent extended properly and that some of the upstands werent sufficiently 
bonded.
After the supplier had inspected the kitchen again, Mr P raised several other concerns about 
its quality and the way it had been installed. To try and resolve matters, the supplier offered 
to refund some of the installation cost, but said the kitchen had been installed in line with the 
plan and the agreement they had with Mr P.
Mr P didnt accept the suppliers offer and contacted Clydesdale to progress a claim he had 
started under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Following talks between 
Mr P, the supplier and Clydesdale, further repair work was arranged. The supplier also 
agreed to pay Mr P £1,600 to bring the matter to a close.
Additionally, Clydesdale offered to pay Mr P £400 to reduce the overall cost of the kitchen 
and installation. After initially accepted the offer from Clydesdale and the supplier, Mr P 
decided to decline it and brought his complaint to our service. He didnt think Clydesdale had 
treated his section 75 claim fairly.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ps case and found that Clydesdale had paid their offer 
to Mr P twice. So, added to the payment from the supplier, the investigator said that Mr P 
had received a total of £2,400. The investigator confirmed that Clydesdale werent seeking to 
recover the payment made in error to Mr P.
Overall, the investigator concluded that the supplier had repaired or replaced the damaged 
items and that Mr P had received an installed kitchen. She said she didnt think Mr Ps 
further concerns had a material impact on the overall quality of the kitchen and the plan was 
individual to Mr Ps circumstances. The investigator also found that Mr P had asked for 
compensation rather than another inspection, and that the amount paid to Mr P was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr P declined to accept the investigators findings. He said he didnt receive a bespoke 
kitchen from the supplier and that there were still faults with the items he received. The 
investigator didnt change her conclusions and Mr Ps case has now been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from what Mr P has explained to us that the last couple of years havent been easy 
for him. Mr P has told us about his difficult personal circumstances and how this effects his 
day to day life. I acknowledge what Mr P has said and want to reassure him that Ive 
carefully taken his circumstances into consideration when reaching my conclusions. 
Section 75 of the CCA and the Consumer Rights Act 2015
Mr P bought the kitchen from the supplier using a fixed sum loan agreement. The loan is a 
regulated credit facility. So, we are able to consider complaints about it.
The relevant piece of legislation Ive thought about is section 75 of the CCA. This provides
protection for consumers for goods and services bought using credit. Under section 75,
subject to certain criteria, consumers who use a fixed sum loan, to pay for goods and
services, have an equal claim against the finance provider, for any breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Having considered the background of Mr Ps case, Im satisfied that in his complaint, the
criteria exists for Mr P to be able to bring a section 75 claim against Clydesdale.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), there is an implied term written into contracts 
that goods supplied need to be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says the quality of goods are 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In Mr Ps case, he says the kitchen and the installation was of poor quality. If the goods 
provided by the supplier are not of satisfactory quality, then this is a breach of contract. So, 
Clydesdales responsibility to Mr P was to consider his section 75 claim and decide if the 
kitchen and installation were of satisfactory quality. If its found they were not of satisfactory 
quality, it would be for Clydesdale to then offer Mr P an appropriate remedy.
The plans for the kitchen
Both Mr P and the supplier have provided the plan, which each party agreed upon, for the 
kitchen. I can see from the plan that the supplier was to provide units and items from one of the ranges they offer. Mr P also chose a worktop that would need to be cut by the supplier, 
using a specific template, taken after the first part of the installation was completed.
Mr P has explained that he doesnt think he was provided with a bespoke kitchen, befitting 
the price he paid to the supplier. I acknowledge that some of the units and items Mr P 
received are available to other customers of the high street supplier. This doesnt make the 
items exclusive to Mr P.
But, I think the suppliers plans show that the kitchen was designed around the space where 
Mr P wanted his kitchen and to meet his needs. I also think the worktop was cut using the 
very specific measurements, after the first part of the installation. So, I think that in itself was 
individual to Mr Ps kitchen.
Having considered everything, I think Clydesdale treated Mr Ps section 75 claim fairly here. 
I think Mr P received a planning service from the supplier, which he agreed matched his 
needs with the units, items and worktop available.
The Installation of the kitchen
In July 2019, the supplier installed the worktop to the kitchen. But, after Mr P raised his 
concerns about how it was fitted, the supplier returned to do some remedial work around a 
month later. 
Mr P has provided evidence to show the problems that existed with the worktop. He also 
approached another scheme to assess his kitchen, and Clydesdale have accepted that the 
supplier needed to make some repairs. So, I think all parties to this complaint agreed that 
the installation of the worktop wasnt of a satisfactory standard in July 2019.
By the time the remedial work to the worktop was completed, it had been around a month. 
Mr P says this left him without the use of the sink or a cooker for an unreasonable amount of 
time. Ive thought about what Mr P was told by the supplier, before he signed the agreement 
to purchase the kitchen.
Having done so, I think the supplier explained to Mr P that there may be a period of up to 
three weeks where some parts of the kitchen may not be usable. So, I think Mr P could have 
expected some disruption to the use of a cooker or a sink, at some point during the 
installation of the kitchen. 
While I can see that the supplier repaired the problems with the worktop, I agree that Mr P 
suffered inconvenience due to the delay caused by the supplier. So, Ive gone on to consider 
the other concerns Mr P had with the installation, to see if Clydesdale should have done 
more to help.
Mr P has provided several photographs of amongst other things, the wall units in the kitchen. 
Mr P sent these to us, to show that not all of the wall units have been installed in a uniformed 
way. Ive looked carefully at the photographs and Ive considered the report Mr P got from 
another scheme, the suppliers report on the kitchen and what I think a reasonable person 
would say is of reasonable care and skill.
I can see that there are small parts of the underside of some of the cabinets where the tiling 
stops, before the cabinet begins. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, I agree with the 
investigators conclusions in that I dont think this means the installation of the kitchen has 
been completed without reasonable care or skill. I acknowledge the time and effort Mr P has spent to support his case here. But, having 
considered everything, I dont think it would be fair for Clydesdale to offer a further remedy to 
what has already been paid to Mr P.
The quality of the goods provided by the supplier
The supplier reviewed Mr Ps concerns about the quality of the kitchen within three separate 
visits and reports. I can see that after each report, repairs were agreed and carried out. 
After the suppliers final report, Mr P said that he still had concerns about the worktop and 
the quality of some of the kitchen units. Once Mr P started his section 75 claim with 
Clydesdale, they say it was their intention to investigate the kitchen further and 
recommended a report from an independent body.
In Clydesdales email to Mr P of 1 May 2020, I can see they offered to revisit the scheme 
Mr P had used previously, before the repair work had started. That scheme may have been 
able to review the kitchen afresh and make a conclusion on whether or not the supplier 
should take further action. 
Mr P replied to Clydesdale to say that the supplier had tried to steer him away from another 
professional report and that he wanted to see if a different offer would be made. I can also 
see from the correspondence between Mr P, Clydesdale and the supplier, that Mr P was 
looking for a compensation package, rather than another report on the kitchen.
The CRA allows for the supplier to attempt a repair or a replacement of goods that dont 
conform to contract. If that doesnt work, then supplier is able to offer another remedy, such 
as a price reduction.
Having considered everything, I think Mr Ps preference was to receive a discount or a 
payment towards the cost of the kitchen and installation. I think Clydesdales approach, 
whereby they added to the payment made by the supplier was a fair and reasonable remedy 
to Mr Ps complaint.
Ive concluded that the supplier did cause a delay with the installation of the kitchen, but that 
Clydesdale treated Mr P fairly when they increased the payment made by the supplier. So, 
Ive gone on to consider if the total payment made was fair and reasonable amount to 
resolve Mr Ps section 75 claim.
Summary
Overall, I think Mr P encountered problems during the installation of the kitchen, largely 
caused by the supplier. But, I think the supplier has inspected the kitchen at several points 
over the last two years and repaired or replaced the items which werent of satisfactory 
quality. And the supplier was prepared to include some items which werent part of the 
agreement with Mr P.
However, I think its clear the supplier caused a delay when the worktop needed to be 
repaired in July 2019 and I accept this caused inconvenience to Mr P. And, given his difficult 
personal circumstances, I can see that this was a troublesome time for him. 
I need to keep in mind though, that the payment of £2,400 from Clydesdale and the supplier 
surpasses the recommendation Mr P received from another scheme. I also think that the 
payment is a reasonable reduction of the £15,493.36 cash price, Mr P paid for the kitchen 
and installation. Furthermore, Mr P has benefitted from Clydesdales error, in that theyve 
paid him £400 more than they meant to.In all the circumstances, I think Clydesdale treated Mr P fairly, when they handled his section 
75 claim. I think the payment Mr P has received from Clydesdale and the supplier is fair and 
reasonable when looking at the difficulties he experienced during the supply and fit of the 
kitchen.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint  in the sense that I dont require 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to take any 
further action to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman