DRN-1486982
The complaint
Ms T complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited renewed her motor insurance 
policy when it wasnt needed and then didnt give her a full refund of her premium. 
What happened
Ms Ts policy automatically renewed, and Hastings took the annual premium from her 
account. When Ms T noticed this, she cancelled the policy. She said the car was declared 
SORN (Statutory Off Road Notification) and so didnt need to be insured. She was also 
unhappy that Hastings didnt give her a full refund of the premium it had taken.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought a car 
that was SORN could still be insured. He thought Hastings had renewed the policy according 
to its terms and conditions. He thought it was for Ms T to cancel this if she didnt want it 
renewed. And he thought Hastings had sent Ms T her renewal notifications although she 
said she hadnt received these. He thought that as the policy was cancelled outside the 
cooling off period, then Hastings was entitled to apply cancellation charges.
Ms T replied that as her car was SORN, the policy should have lapsed. She thought shed 
been entrapped by Hastings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms T feels robbed. She said Hastings had insured the car without her 
consent and she hadnt received any notification of this. And, when she cancelled the policy, 
she was charged for her time on cover and fees when her car was SORN and exempt from 
insurance. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Ms T had had the car insured with Hastings for two years before this renewal. 
Ive looked at Ms Ts policy booklet and it says that the policy will automatically renew, 
unless she told Hastings otherwise. And it said she would also be told this on her renewal 
notification. Ms T was advised she could opt out of the renewal process by calling Hastings 
before the renewal date. 
We think automatic renewals are good for consumers as they can prevent them from driving 
whilst uninsured. Hastings explained that it auto-renewed policies to comply with the 
Continuous Insurance Enforcement legislation and that SORN vehicles may still be insured 
to cover risks of vandalism, fire or theft. 
I cant see that Ms T called Hastings to opt out of the automatic renewal process. Ms T 
thought Hastings should have noticed that her car was SORN and so not renewed the 
insurance. But a car that is SORN can still be insured. And I wouldnt expect a broker to 
check the status of every car. I think its reasonable for the consumer to inform it if she 
doesnt want her car insured. 
Ms T said her policy had been renewed without her consent. But I think Hastings acted fairly 
in renewing the policy as it acted within the terms and conditions of the policy. Ive seen from 
Hastings records that it sent Ms T the renewal notification and policy documents by email 
and post. Ms T said she didnt receive these, but I think they were sent to the correct 
address. So I cant hold Hastings responsible for this. 
When Ms T called Hastings to cancel her policy, it acted immediately, which I think was fair 
and reasonable. It cancelled her policy and, because this was outside the 14 day cooling off 
period, charges for time on cover and its arrangement fee and a cancellation fee were 
applied. I think this is clearly set out in the policy booklet, so I think its fair and reasonable 
for Hastings to apply them. 
So I think Hastings acted fairly and reasonably, and in keeping with the policy terms and 
conditions, when it renewed Ms Ts policy and then applied charges when she cancelled 
this. I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman