DRN-4227490
The complaint
Mr D complained that Financial Administration Services Limited trading as Fidelity 
International (Fidelity):
failed to follow his instructions to invest £19,000 into an ISA, split between four funds 
and 
wrongly charged him fees when the money was in a cash account.
What happened
Mr D held an account with Fidelity  a financial business that administers investments on 
behalf of its customers. The background to this complaint is as follows.
13 January 2020  Mr D called to get an up to date valuation - call not relevant to this 
complaint

6 October 2020 - Mr D called in to request a valuation on this ISA - call not relevant to 
complaint

23 February 2021 - Mr D had £19,496 to invest and he called to discuss putting the money 
into an Individual Savings Account (ISA) and being entered into a prize draw. Fidelity 
explained that the ISA draw was an online only offer. Mr D said he would attempt this 
online and that he knew which funds he wanted to invest in. Fidelity took email contact 
details and said it would send him guides telling him how to set up his account online, how 
to add cash to an online account and how to add cash to a fund. Mr D asked for an up to 
date valuation and there was discussion about Mr Ds holdings held over the years since 
hed opened his account in 2002. Mr D was pleased to learn the current valuation. Fidelity 
verified Mr Ds mobile phone number & email address so that he had everything in place 
needed to be able to set up the account to manage his investments online. Fidelity 
provided an 0800 number for Mr D to call when he wanted to get in touch. Fidelity 
explained how Mr D could transfer money online via bank transfer or debit card payment 
and told him he could also install its phone application (app) on a smartphone or give 
instructions over the phone or by completing forms he could download from its website. 
Mr D thanked the call handler and ended the call.
Following the call, Fidelity emailed Mr D its guides for online registration and buying funds.
17 March 2021 - Mr D phoned Fidelity. He said he wasnt good with online stuff but he 
wanted to open a new ISA. He had transferred in £19,000 but thought hed put it into an 
existing account and wasnt sure if the money had gone through. Fidelity confirmed to Mr D 
that £19,000 had been added to his current ISA and was sitting as cash waiting to be 
invested. The call handler offered to talk Mr D through how to place his money into new 
funds over the phone if he wanted to do that straightaway or said he could send him a step 
by step guide. There was discussion about Fidelitys top 5 recommendations which Mr D 
said he was interested in and he also said hed potentially like to add into the funds he was 
currently invested into. Fidelity explained how Mr D could identify his current investments 
and place his buys and tried to assist him with his queries. When Mr D understood that his 
£19,000 cash was secure within an ISA wrapper and that he didnt need to rush into 
making investment decisions ahead of the end of the tax year, he requested the guides so 
he could look again at what he was doing. Fidelity said it was sending its buy, sell and 
switch guides and explained what a switch was  these were sent to Mr D during the 
course of the call. There was some further discussion about placing money and the call 
handler provided further explanation. Mr D asked for clarification of his holdings value 
minus the £19,000 he'd just invested and Fidelity told him the value (£29,584.58 as per the 
last dealing point). Mr D was happy to end the call at that point.
12 January 2022 - Mr D called in to query the valuation of his funds. He said hed received 
a letter from Fidelity with four recommended funds but that he couldnt any longer access 
his emails as hed changed broadband provider. Fidelity confirmed to Mr D that hed put 
£19,000 into cash and that this wasn't invested into any funds. Mr D thought he had 
arranged for that to happen over the phone but Fidelity said that £19,000 was still sitting in 
cash. There was further discussion and the call handler said she would send out 
information to clarify the holdings for Mr D and check things out and call Mr D back to 
discuss further. 
Following the call, Fidelity sent Mr D an up to date statement from March 2021 to 
12 January 2022.
13 January 2022 at 12:03pm Fidelity called Mr D and he asked for a call back later around 
5.30pm. 
13 January 2022 at 05:41pm  Fidelity called Mr D and the call handler confirmed that his 
previous calls had been listened to and that Fidelity had sent him instructions on how to 
place the deals but no deals were placed over the phone. Mr D recalled being advised on 
how to place deals online, but also that hed come back and said that he was unable to do 
so as he was not that good online. He recalled the call handler saying she would send out 
the paperwork for him to sign and that he wouldnt be able to take part in the prize draw. 
Mr D stated that when he spoke to the call handler shed said she had notes of his 
instruction and would allocate money to the account and that shed send out the form for 
Mr D to sign. Hed then lost his previous account and changed his email address. He said 
this had happened after 17 March 2021. Following further discussion, this call ended with 
Fidelity telling Mr D it would investigate further and call him back with an update.28 January 2022  as Mr D hadnt heard anything further from Fidelity, he phoned to find 
out what was happening. Fidelity had previously dealt with the matter as an enquiry and 
now logged Mr Ds concerns as a complaint about his instructions from a year ago not 
having been actioned and the fact he hadnt had a call back following on from the previous 
call. The call handler also transferred Mr D to an agent who assisted Mr D to place his buys 
over the phone.
8 February 2022 - Mr D called for an up to date valuation - call not relevant to complaint.
8 February 2022  Fidelity upheld Mr Ds complaint in part. It said, in summary, that after 
checking its call logs for all the numbers provided by Mr D, there was no evidence of a call 
to place a deal until he invested the funds over the phone during the call on 
28 January 2022. Fidelity did however apologise for not calling Mr D back after speaking to 
him on 13 January 2022 when hed been led to expect Fidelity would ring him back with an 
update. Fidelity acknowledged that it had let Mr D down and offered him £50 as a gesture 
of goodwill. 
When our investigator looked into what happened, she felt the available information 
supported what Fidelity had said. She said there was no record of Mr D having asked 
Fidelity to place his funds until this happened on 28 January 2022 and that hed correctly 
been charged the £300. She felt that Fidelitys offer to pay £50 as a gesture of goodwill for 
not calling Mr D back when it said it would was fair and reasonable. As a result, she said 
she wouldnt be asking Fidelity to do anything further. 
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator and I have summarised his concerns as follows:
Fidelity has failed to provide a complete log of all calls made by Mr D regarding his 
ISA investment of £19,000 being split between funds recommended by their 
investment expert in a 2020/2021 Fidelity ISA recommendations brochure
he had not intended his £19,000 to go into a non-interest Cash Account, then to have 
deductions made from that sum resulting in the value of his investment being reduced
information on Fidelitys website clearly says that no deductions will be made from 
money that is held in a cash account
a much higher level of compensation is appropriate. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I appreciate how strongly Mr D feels about this complaint. Whilst Ive summarised some of 
his concerns in my own words, Ive carefully read and considered everything hes said. We 
provide an informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive 
approached the complaint. Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues 
I need to address in order to reach a fair outcome. This means I wont necessarily mention 
everything Mr D has brought to my attention as the purpose of my decision isnt to address 
every single point raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by both parties and 
reach a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. My findings are made on a balance of probabilities, in other words, what is more likely than 
not, based on the evidence that has been provided by the parties. 
Mr Ds complaint that Fidelity failed to follow instructions to invest £19,000 into an ISA, split 
between four funds following his phone call on 17 March 2021. 
I've carefully listened to the call recordings and read all the call notes provided by Fidelity. 
Ive no good reason to think that Fidelity has not sent me a full list of all its relevant phone 
calls with Mr D, which I've set out above. I appreciate that Mr D disagrees on this point, but 
what he says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his complaint.
I have to give due weight to what both parties say. 
Fidelity has provided information showing it conducted a comprehensive phone number 
search of its records - it checked against all the possible phone numbers Mr D provided and 
it has sent me evidence of the calls it says it had. Mr D hasnt provided me with any 
evidence from his own phone records to show me that hes correct in saying theres a 
missing phone call after 17 March 2021 when he says he provided instructions to Fidelity to 
buy into funds. I dont doubt hes certain about what hes told us but I think its more likely 
that Mr D is simply mistaken and the phone call on 12 January 2022 was the first time he 
had spoken to Fidelity since the call on 17 March 2021. Its clear to me from listening to the 
calls on 23 February and 17 March 2021 that he was looking into how to place his buys 
himself and the information he requested, which I can see Fidelity sent him, provided the 
information he needed to know about how to do this. If there had been a further call with new 
instructions, Fidelity would also be able to confirm this. Fidelity acted promptly when 
instructed by Mr D to invest his funds over the phone during the call on 28 January 2022.
On the basis of the available evidence, on balance, I find that there is insufficient evidence to 
uphold Mr Ds complaint that Fidelity failed to follow instructions he says he gave to invest 
£19,000 into an ISA, split between four funds, sometime after the phone call on 
17 March 2021. 
Mr Ds complaint that Fidelity wrongly charged him when the money was in a cash account.
Mr D relies on information hes seen on Fidelitys website which says: We do not charge a 
service fee on money held in your Cash account. He put things this way: I think that clearly 
reads that No deductions will be made from money that is held in a Cash Account.
But Fidelity has explained that the Cash Management Account (CMA) is used to help pay 
for customer service fees if they prefer to use cash rather than selling units. The screenshot 
Mr D relies on also says this :You can use it to pay for fees.
Mr Ds CMA was opened in September 2020. When he deposited the funds on 
17 March 2021, he did not deposit the funds in the CMA but into his ISA and these funds 
were held as cash. 
Fidelity has explained that the value of all a customers assets, including cash, determines 
which Service fee is applied. Based on his portfolio size (including the cash), Mr D would 
have been subject to a 0.35% service charge. However, when the service fee is deducted, Fidelity said it applies this rate to all assets (but 
excluding cash) and divides by 12 to make a proportionate monthly deduction. Fidelity said 
the service charges incurred by Mr D would have therefore been applied to his total portfolio 
(excluding any cash). The fee was deducted from the cash holdings within the ISA and then 
transferred to the CMA to be paid. 
As Mr D held other assets with Fidelity (excluding cash), this explains why it deducted these 
fees. The fee was not itself a direct charge on the cash holdings, it was taken from cash to 
pay for the overall charges across the portfolio.
 
Fidelity says these charges were taken correctly and I agree  as far as I can see they were 
correctly applied in line with the account terms and conditions that Mr D signed up to in order 
to be able to use Fidelitys service and theres also more information about this on Fidelitys 
website. I cant fairly say in these circumstances that Fidelity did anything wrong or that it 
acted unfairly or unreasonably when it deducted the charges Mr D has complained about. 
This means, I cant uphold this part of his complaint and so it follows that I cannot direct 
Fidelity to refund fees it charged Mr D.
Fidelitys goodwill offer to pay Mr D £50 in respect of its admitted poor service when it failed 
to call him back or update him after it said it would during the call on 13 January 2022.
I can tell Fidelity to pay compensation or take other steps to put things right if I am satisfied 
that Fidelity did something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably and this led to Mr D 
suffering some detriment and/or financial loss. Fidelity has already upheld this part of Mr Ds 
complaint so I dont need to say more about this other than I agree that Mr D was entitled to 
expect a better level of service from Fidelity than he experienced on this particular occasion. 
The principle behind redress awarded by this service is to put Mr D into the position he 
wouldve been in, but for Fidelitys poor service on this occasion. Ive thought carefully about 
the consequences for Mr D of this poor service.
Ive considered whether, had Fidelity gone back to Mr D on a more timely basis, he wouldve 
invested sooner  and I find he most likely wouldve done. I say this because when he made 
contact on 28 January 2022 after not hearing from Fidelity for over two weeks, this resulted 
in his funds being invested during that phone call. 
I think it's fair to say that Mr D was reasonably entitled to expect a call back from Fidelity 
within a week of his call on 13 January 2022  and had that happened, he probably wouldve 
instructed the investment that was actually done for him on 28 January 2022. So I think 
Fidelity should check whether, if it had carried out Mr Ds investment instructions on 
20 January 2022, which is the latest date I think it ought to have gone back to him, this 
wouldve affected the current value of his holdings. If so, and Mr D is worse off as a result, 
then it seems fair to me that Fidelity should make up this shortfall. I can see how Fidelitys delay getting back to Mr D when he was waiting for Fidelity to call 
wouldve caused Mr D some distress and inconvenience and I think the £50 payment it has 
offered for this is fair compensation. This amount is in line with the level of award I consider 
fair to reflect the extent and impact on Mr D of this service failings on Fidelitys part. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr D and Fidelity have both indicated that they accept what Ive said in my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any further 
evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put things right Fidelity should pay the £50 it offered to settle Mr Ds complaint (if it 
hasnt already) and, in addition, do the following:
1. Calculate the number of units Mr D would have purchased with the money that was 
invested during the call on 28 January 2022, in the same proportion that Mr D 
actually did invest, assuming that the investments were made on 20 January 2022.
2. The number of units calculated at (1) should then be valued at the date of my 
decision.
3. To the figure calculated at (2) should be added the amount of any dividend that Mr D 
would have received if Mr D had held these units calculated at (1) from 
20 January 2022. This total figure, including any dividend, represents the fair value.
4. The number of units that were actually purchased on 28 January 2022 should also be 
valued at the date of my decision. This represents the actual value. 
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If the fair value 
is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Any compensation due should be paid to Mr D.Fidelity should provide details of the calculations to Mr D in a clear, simple format.
If any compensation due is not paid within 28 days of Fidelity receiving acceptance of my 
decision, interest at 8% per annum on the loss identified will be payable from the final 
decision date to the date of settlement. Income tax may be payable on this interest, if paid. If 
Fidelity deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr D how much has been taken 
off. Fidelity should give Mr D a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for 
one, so Mr D can reclaim the tax on this interest from HM Revenue & Customs, if 
appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct Financial Administration Services Limited to take 
the steps set out above to put things right for Mr D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman