DRN-3171509
The complaint
Mrs W complains about a loan from Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, 
(Bamboo), which she says was unaffordable. The complaint has been brought to this 
service on Mrs Ws behalf by a claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer 
below to all actions being taken by Mrs W. 
What happened
Bamboo provided Mrs W with a loan of £2,000 on 3 June 2019. The loan was secured by a 
guarantor who would be responsible for repaying it if she failed to make her repayments.  
The loan was to be repaid over 18 months with monthly repayments of £150.59 and was 
repaid in December 2020.
Mrs W says that Bamboo failed to carry out an effective affordability assessment. Had an 
effective assessment been carried out, Bamboo wouldnt have provided a loan to her.
In its final response letter, Bamboo said that its affordability assessment showed that
after deducting Mrs Ws living costs and loan servicing costs, she had a monthly 
disposable income of £170 remaining to meet the proposed loan payment of £150.59. 
This demonstrated that the loan was sustainably affordable for her and there was a 
small buffer in case of emergencies, irregular expenditure or changes in circumstances.
Bamboo also said that Mrs W was retired and declared a monthly income of £1,160 and rent 
of £450. It assessed Mrs Ws monthly living expenses of £351 from statistical data and her 
monthly credit commitments as £189 from its credit checks. 
Bamboo believed it had made a fair lending decision in approving Mrs Ws loan after
carefully considering her circumstances and affordability. But it also made a goodwill offer in 
full and final settlement of her complaint with the intention of helping Mrs W repay the 
outstanding loan faster than scheduled. The offer was to write off the remaining balance on 
Mrs Ws account, a total of £301.24. Bamboo said that her account would then be closed, 
and no further payments would be due.
Mrs W rejected Bamboos offer.
Our investigators view
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He noted that 
Mrs W had a monthly disposable income of around £19 after making the loan repayment. He 
also said that Bamboo had assessed Mrs Ws credit card commitments using around 5% of 
the current balance on her two credit cards. He believed that Bamboo should have done 
more with the information that was available to it and considered Mrs W's ability to repay the 
maximum amount of credit available under these agreements within a reasonable period. If 
Bamboo had done so, he believed that it would have concluded that she didnt have a 
sufficient amount of disposable income for it to be satisfied that she had the ability to repay 
the maximum amount of credit available under these agreements within a reasonable period. 
The investigator said that if Bamboo had further analysed Mrs Ws information, it ought to 
have concluded that there was a significant risk that Mrs W would be unable to afford the 
repayments on this loan over the life of the agreement.
.
Bamboo disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that:
It rejected the investigators view that it should have taken into consideration Mrs Ws 
available credit on her two credit card accounts. It said that this wouldnt be a fair or 
reasonable way of establishing a consumers affordability as it wasnt based on 
accurate figures. 
It noted that Mrs W only had two missed payments showing throughout her credit 
report, both of which were brought back up to date the following month. 
It referred to the investigators statement that Mrs W had opened two accounts in the 
previous six months. But it said that one of these was a 12 month unsecured loan 
and the other was a utility account. There was no indication that these accounts 
would have a negative impact on Mrs Ws financial situation, especially since she 
was managing the accounts well and only positive information was reported.
It acknowledged the investigators comments regarding the low disposable income 
remaining after the loan repayments, but said that this still showed that the loan was 
affordable for Mrs W. Although the disposable income was calculated at a low value 
of £19, as the loan was to be repaid over just 18 months, Bamboo was confident that 
the loan would be sustainably affordable for the consumer during this relatively short 
term.
The loan was paid in full and as expected.
As the complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs W 
and to ELL on 21 October 2021. I summarise my findings:
Id said that I was sorry to learn about Mrs Ws health difficulties and that this must be a very 
difficult time for her.
Id noted that when Bamboo lent to Mrs W the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
Bamboo was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mrs Ws creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This meant that 
Bamboo had to consider both the risk to it that Mrs W wouldnt make the repayments under 
the agreement when due, and the risk to Mrs W of not being able to make these 
repayments. 
In particular, Bamboo had to consider Mrs Ws ability to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without her having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without her failing to make any other repayment she had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
her financial situation. 
The rules didnt set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it was down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wished to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what was appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
As set out above, Bamboo gathered some information from Mrs W about her income and 
accommodation expenses before it agreed the loan. It had also carried out a credit check. 
Mrs W told Bamboo she was retired and had a monthly income of £1,160. Shed said she 
paid rent of £450. Bamboo didnt ask Mrs W for any information about her living costs. It 
assessed these according to statistical information. The lender also assessed Mrs Ws credit 
commitments. Bamboo calculated that Mrs W had a disposable income of £170. But I could 
see that after the monthly loan repayment, she would have only been left with around £19 
each month. I thought there was a very foreseeable risk here that Mrs W wouldnt have been 
able to meet her repayments over 18 months without difficulty. It wouldnt have taken very 
much unexpected or seasonal expense to leave Mrs W in the position of having to borrow to 
meet her loan repayments. So, I didnt think Bamboo had made a fair lending decision to 
provide the loan to her based on the very low amount of Mrs Ws disposable income. 
Id also reviewed Bamboos credit check. Id noted that this showed that Mrs W had six 
active credit accounts and that two of these had been opened in the previous six months. 
Mrs W had a total balance outstanding of £3,066.
Bamboo was likely to be aware from its credit check that Mrs W had borrowed a loan of 
around £1,100 in February 2019 from a high cost credit lender. This was around four months 
prior to her application to Bamboo. She had also missed a payment to one of her credit 
cards in the same month that she took out that loan. I thought these events might have 
suggested that Mrs W was experiencing financial pressures that month and needed to 
borrow to supplement her income. And whilst she had been repaying that credit card 
account with monthly payments of £20 for the three months prior to the missed payment, she 
was only able to pay £10 in March 2019 which suggested she was still having money 
problems. Id also noted that Mrs W had missed a payment on the same account in   
October 2018. So, she had missed a payment in two of the previous seven months on that 
account. I thought these payment issues and recent high cost credit borrowing might have 
caused Bamboo concerns as I didnt think they suggested that Mrs W had been managing 
her money well in relatively recent months.
Bamboo would also have been aware that its credit checks might not have provided a 
complete picture of Mrs Ws credit commitments at the time of her loan application. The 
information wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Also, not all lenders 
reported to the same credit reference agencies. 
In addition, Id noted that the amount of Mrs Ws monthly credit commitments (based on 
those shown in Bamboos credit check) together with the loan repayment amount totalled 
around 29% of her relatively low income. Id thought that Bamboo ought to have been 
concerned about this and that it was unlikely to be sustainable over 18 months. 
Id said I wouldnt investigate what further checks might have shown in view of what Id said 
above. I was satisfied that the available information demonstrated that Mrs W wasnt in a 
position to take on any more debt and so Bamboos decision to arrange the loan wasnt fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
But Id thought it worth mentioning that Id reviewed the credit report Mrs W provided to this 
Service. I could see that this showed that Mrs W had a significantly larger amount of existing 
credit at the time of her loan application than that shown in Bamboos credit checks. I could 
see shed opened a credit account in early April 2019 with an opening balance of around 
£1,018. The credit report showed this was payable by regular monthly payment amounts of 
£21. In addition, Mrs Ws spending on one credit card had increased by over £1,000 
between April 2019 and May 2019 and on the other credit card it had increased by around 
£160 in the same period. If Bamboo had made better checks and calculated Mrs Ws total 
monthly credit repayments to include these increased credit commitments, it would have 
likely seen that Mrs W didnt have enough disposable income to repay Bamboos loan. 
Id noted that Bamboo had said that the loan payments had been paid in full and as 
expected. But I didnt think that necessarily meant that the loan repayments were repaid 
without Mrs W having to borrow to meet the repayments, without her failing to make any 
other repayment she had a contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse effect on her financial situation. In particular, Id 
noted from the credit report provided by Mrs W that she had entered into a debt 
management programme for three of her credit accounts within two months of obtaining 
Bamboos loan.
So, I thought Bamboo had acted unfairly when it provided the loan to Mrs W and subject to 
any further representations by Mrs W or Bamboo, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint and say that Bamboo should put things right as follows: 
Putting things right  what Bamboo needs to do
I didnt think Bamboo should have agreed to give the loan to Mrs W. So, Bamboo should:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mrs W paid on the loan;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
3. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ws credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo 
must give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one. 
Neither Mrs W nor Bamboo has provided a response to my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Mrs W and Bamboo have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this 
complaint and require Bamboo to pay Mrs W some compensation and take the steps set out 
above under the heading Putting things right  what Bamboo needs to do.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Bamboo Limited to pay Mrs W some compensation and take the steps set out above 
under the heading Putting things right  what Bamboo needs to do.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman