DRN-3758894
The complaint
Mr G isnt happy that Curve UK Limited, trading as Curve, applied a charge to his account.
What happened
Mr G noticed that Curve had applied a large charge to his account. Mr G wasnt happy about 
this as he paid a yearly subscription fee to avoid such charges. So, he raised a complaint. 
Curve looked at Mr Gs complaint. But they felt that the fee had been charged correctly. Mr 
G wasnt satisfied with Curves response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel Curve had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G paid an annal subscription to Curve, known as a Metal subscription, one benefit of 
which was that fees of the type Mr G has complained about wouldnt apply to his account. 
This used to be the case, but Curve changed the terms of the subscription, providing notice 
of the impending change via an email sent by Curve to all account holders and which 
included that the fee type in question  known as a Curve Fronted (CV) fee  was being 
introduced for Metal subscribers and would apply when they spend more than £10,000 of CV 
transactions a month.
Businesses such as Curve are generally entitled to change their terms in this way, so long 
as any change is done in line with an acknowledged process. And its notable that Curves 
Terms of Service provides such a process, as follows:
Changes to these Terms
 Well give you 2 months notice before the change will come into effect  so that 
you can easily end these Terms if you dont agree with the changes.
Curve sent the email notifying account holders of the changes to the terms on 30 September 
2021, and the changes were scheduled to be implemented from 1 December 2021 onwards. 
As such, Im satisfied that Curve implement the changes to the terms fairly, having given Mr 
G, and all other account holders, reasonable notice of their intention to do so. 
Mr G may contend that he wasnt aware of the change of terms because he hadnt read and 
considered the email sent by Curve on 30 September 2021. But it was Mr Gs responsibility 
as an account holder to monitor the communications sent to him by Curve, and so I dont 
feel that an exception to the change of terms should fairly be instructed in this instance.
Mr G also doesnt feel, even in consideration of the change of terms, that the transactions he 
undertook which resulted in the fee being charged should have attracted that fee. This is 
because Mr G disputes the interpretation of the terms by Curve, including what should be 
considered as counting as a CF transaction. 
However, it must be noted that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law. This 
means it isnt within my remit to decide as to the specific meaning of terms in Curves terms 
and conditions, or whether Curve are acting in breach of those terms or in an unlawful way. 
Such determinations are for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to make. 
Instead, this service operates as an informal dispute resolution service. And based on my 
own reading and understanding of Curves terms and the changes it made to them, in my 
professional capacity as an ombudsman, and without making any regulatory or lawful 
statement, it seems to me that Curve have applied the fees to Mr Gs account fairly and in 
line with what was described  and with what it seems to me was intended  in regard to the 
notice of the change of terms that Curve issued on 30 September 2021.
This includes the charging of CF fees for Mr Gs use of an account feature called Go Back in 
Time (GBIT). This feature allows an account holder to move a transaction undertaken on 
one card to another card. Mr G used this feature in December 2021 to move transactions 
hed undertaken in November 2021 on one card to a different card. 
Mr G contends that the transactions took place in November 2021, before Curve changed 
their terms, and so he shouldnt incur charges for those transactions. And Mr G points out 
that the organisation with whom he engaged with regarding those transactions continues to 
show them as having taken place in November 2021. 
When Mr G used GBIT in December 2021 to move the transactions from the original card 
used to make them (card A) to a different card (card B), this resulted in Curve engaging in a 
new transaction with card B for the relevant amount in December 2021, before then 
reimbursing card A with that amount once the new transaction with card B had completed. 
This explains why the organisation that received the original transactional funds still 
considers them as being received in November 2021  because they werent involved in the 
new transaction and reimbursement process  and why Curve considered those transactions 
as having taken place in regard to the Curve account in December 2021  because card A, 
used in November 2021, was reimbursed, and new transactions with card B undertaken by 
Curve at Mr Gs request in December 2021. 
Additionally, because this new transaction took place after the change to Curves terms on 1 
December 2021, Curve considered the change of terms as being applicable to those new 
transactions. This seems reasonable to me, and I dont feel that Curve acted unfairly by 
applying the charges that came into force from 1 December 2021 onwards to the new 
transactions generated by Mr Gs use of GBIT in December 2021 as they did.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr G was wanting, but it follows from all the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Curve to take any further action here. I hope 
that Mr G will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman