DRN-1794761
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that NewDay Ltd rejected his section 75 claim when he complained about 
the quality of a car hed purchased. 
What happened
In December 2018 Mr H purchased a used car and paid a deposit of £100 with his NewDay 
credit card.
Mr H experienced various issues with the car, including issues with the suspension, the 
steering, revving and a rattling noise. He contacted the supplying dealer who suggested he 
continue to drive the car for a couple of weeks to see what happened. 
Mr H continued to experience the issues and couldnt get a reply from the supplying dealer, 
so he took the car to a third-party garage who carried out a wheel alignment and diagnosed 
leaking front shock absorbers.
In January 2019 Mr H obtained an independent engineers report. This identified faults with 
the shock absorbers and the gearbox. The engineer concluded that the faults would have 
been present at the point of supply.
Mr H arranged for repairs to the shock absorbers and sent the inspection report to the 
supplying dealer. Unable to resolve matters with the supplying dealer, Mr H arranged for 
further repairs to the clutch, timing belt and gearbox in February 2019. 
Mr H contacted NewDay to make a section 75 claim. NewDay advised Mr H that he would 
have to demonstrate attempts to resolve matters with the dealer before it could look at the 
claim.
In April 2019 Mr H contacted NewDay and said hed exhausted his options with the 
supplying dealer. NewDay asked Mr H to provide further information. Mr H sent in his 
evidence to NewDay in May 2019. In June 2019 NewDay rejected the section 75 claim 
because it said the evidence suggested that Mr H had issued proceedings against the 
supplying dealer.
Mr H said he hadnt issued legal proceedings. In response, NewDay asked Mr H to provide 
receipts for the repairs hed had carried out. It also requested his insurance documents. Mr 
H said he didnt think these were relevant to the section 75 claim. In August 2019 NewDay 
issued a letter advising Mr H that his section 75 claim had been closed due to non-receipt of 
insurance documents. It later issued a final response in September 2019 rejecting the 
section 75 claim on the grounds that Mr H hadnt mitigated his losses by returning the car to 
the supplying dealer for repairs.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought there was enough evidence to show that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and that there had been a breach of contract. She said 
she didnt think the reasons for NewDay rejecting the section 75 claim were fair or 
reasonable. The investigator was satisfied that the supplying dealer had been given the 
opportunity to repair the car but hadnt been willing to do so. She said NewDay should 
refund the cost of the inspection report and the repairs and pay compensation.
NewDay didnt agree. It said that because Mr H was using the car as a taxi, the statutory 
consumer protection didnt apply.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Mr H has a like claim against NewDay 
as he does against the supplier of the car for breach of contract and/or misrepresentation. 
For the purposes of section 75, a breach of contract is where the supplier fails to do what the 
contract says it must, either expressly or by implication. For example, there is a breach of 
contract when the goods supplied are not of satisfactory quality. 
The way in which this service approached section 75 is to look at what happened and 
assess whether there are grounds for a successful claim under section 75. In order to uphold 
this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract and that 
NewDays response to the section 75 claim wasnt fair or reasonable. 
The relevant law implies a term into the contract between Mr h and the supplying dealer that 
the car is of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose. If this isnt the case, then a breach of 
contract can be said to have occurred and Id expect the supplier to put things right by 
repairing the car at no cost to Mr H.
Ive looked at the available evidence. Ive summarised this for the purposes of my decision. If 
I havent mentioned a particular point, it isnt because I havent taken it on board and thought 
about it. But Ive limited my comments to those points which I think are most relevant to my 
decision.
I can see that Mr H reported issues with the car within the first 30 days of purchase. I would 
have expected the supplying dealer to allow Mr H to return the car for investigation of the 
issues but instead it advised Mr H to keep driving the car. I dont think this was a reasonable 
response. As time went on and Mr H continued to experience issues with the car, I can see 
that Mr H reported these issues to the dealer several times. Within the first 5 weeks of 
owning the car, Mr H contacted the dealer on 5 separate occasions.
In its final response, NewDay said it was rejecting Mr Hs claim because he had failed to 
mitigate his loss by not allowing the dealer to carry out repairs. I dont think this is supported 
by the evidence here, which shows that Mr H repeatedly tried to get the dealership to look at 
the issues with the car. When the dealership responded in January 2019, it said it would 
defend its position if Mr H tried to seek a refund and made it clear that any repair it carried 
out would be chargeable.
Its clear that the supplying dealer was aware that there were issues with the car. Ive looked 
at the independent inspection report obtained by Mr H in January 2019. This identifies faults 
with the car which the engineer says would have been present at the point of supply. Based 
on what Ive seen in the report, Im of the view that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Ive thought about how the supplying dealer responded when Mr H provided a copy of the 
independent inspection report. The dealer said it wouldnt be responsible for repairs already 
carried out by Mr H but said it would inspect the car for the other reported faults. I can see that Mr H was happy for this to happen but he subsequently received a letter from the 
suppliers legal advisers in which it was stated that the supplying dealer had no further 
obligation to assist.
Under the relevant legislation, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, the supplier is 
allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. In this case, the supplier made it clear to Mr H 
that it intended to charge him for any repair work. Im of the view that the supplying dealer 
forfeited its right to repair here.  I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr H to arrange for 
repairs to be carried out at a third-party garage in the circumstances.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that there were faults with the car which were 
present at the pint of supply. This means that the supplying dealer was in breach of the 
implied term to supply a car which was of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose. Im satisfied 
that Mr H gave the supplying dealer more than one chance to repair the car, but the 
supplying dealer didnt respond reasonably. In particular, the supplier did t arrange to have 
the car returned to it for inspection when the faults were initially reported, and it later told Mr 
H that it would charge him for any repairs. In the circumstances Im satisfied that the dealer 
forfeited its right to repair. 
Ive thought about whether NewDays response to the section 75 claim was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I can see that Mr H provided a lot of information to support 
his claim and Im of the view that the evidence shows that there were faults with the car 
which made it of unsatisfactory quality. I think it should have been apparent to NewDay that 
there had been a breach of contract. Im not persuaded that there was any evidence to 
support NewDays assertion that Mr H had failed to mitigate his losses by refusing to allow 
the dealer to repair the car. The evidence points to the contrary and shows that the dealer 
wasnt prepared to carry out repairs. Because of this, I dont think it was fair or reasonable 
for NewDay to reject the section 75 claim. 
Ive considered the point which NewDay has made regarding Mr Hs purchase of the car for 
use in his business. Whist In agree that the Consumer Rights Act may not apply in these 
circumstances, there is still an implied term that the car is of satisfactorily quality and fit for 
purpose. Im of the view that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, so I think NewDay is 
equally responsible under section 75 for putting things right.
Putting things right
Ive looked at the receipts for repairs which Mr H has provided. Some of these relate to work 
which I think can reasonable be said to relate to routine maintenance work on the car and 
not to the repair of faults  this would include the wheel alignment, the engine clean and the 
service. I dont think its reasonable to ask NewDay to pay for all of the work that was done 
but only the work which directly relates to the faults identified which made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality. Based on what Ive seen from the independent inspection report, Im 
of the view that Mr H should be refunded his repair costs for the shock absorbers, the 
gearbox, the clutch and the timing belt. Mr H should also be refunded the cost of the 
independent inspection. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd must:
Refund £216 for the independent inspection
Refund £787 for the shock absorbersRefund £2745.04 for repairs to the gearbox, clutch, timing belt and water pump
Pay 8% simple interest on the sums above from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay Mr H compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman