The complaint
Mr E complains Standard Life Assurance Limited mis-sold him an endowment policy for the 
repayment of his mortgage. He says he was told he would receive £80,000 on maturity, 
which meant he would have had enough to repay his mortgage and provide an additional 
lump sum.
Standard Life agreed the policy had been mis-sold but calculated that Mr E hadn't suffered a 
financial loss.  The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won't repeat 
them again here. Instead, I'll focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the below reasons.
Standard Life has agreed the policy wasn't suitable for Mr E to use as a repayment vehicle 
for his mortgage. So I don't need to consider if the policy was mis-sold; it has already been 
agreed it was. My consideration is limited to whether the calculation Standard Life has 
carried out is fair. 
Some years ago the regulator agreed an approach to redress in cases where endowment 
policies had been mis-sold for mortgage repayment purposes. This is to place the customer 
in the position they would have been in, had they been correctly advised to have a 
repayment mortgage rather than an investment for mortgage repayment. The calculation 
does this by comparing the different mortgage repayment costs, and taking account of 
the endowment premiums, the surrender value of the policy and the amount a repayment 
mortgage would have reduced by. 
I'm satisfied the calculation Standard Life has conducted for Mr E follows that approach. This 
shows that Mr E hasn't suffered a financial loss as a result of the incorrect advice. To put it 
another way, the value of the policy is higher than the difference in costs of the mortgages 
and what a repayment mortgage would have reduced by. 
I understand Mr E says he was led to believe the policy would produce £80,000 on maturity, 
nearly £30,000 over the target amount. However, Mr E's policy was invested into the 
Managed and With Profits funds, both of which invested into a number of different areas 
such as equities and bonds, amongst others. How well a fund did was dependent on the 
particular performance of the underlying investment. I've not seen any persuasive 
evidence the policy contained any contractual guarantee that it would reach the target 
amount, or above, on maturity. Indeed, I note the information from the sale does illustrate the 
policy returning lower than the target amount at the lower growth rate used. 
DRN-1562472I accept the sales adviser likely sold the policy in a positive light, with the prospect of a lump 
sum in addition. But that isn't the same as providing a separate contractually binding 
guarantee of what the policy would achieve on maturity. And although I have considered Mr 
E's testimony, I don't find this persuasive evidence that such a guarantee was given. In the 
absence of such evidence, I find no basis on which to ask Standard Life to do more than it 
already has. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr E's frustration, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman