DRN-3066051
The complaint
Miss C complains that a used car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. She also says she was misled as to 
the mileage of the car at the point of supply.
What happened
In August 2020 Miss C says she saw an advert for a used car that said it had one previous 
owner, a full-service history and a new cambelt fitted. She says the advert also said the cars 
mileage was 92,000. Miss C agreed to take the car and a five-year hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo was arranged. The car was around seven years old.
Miss C says when the car was delivered, she was disappointed to find that it was in a dirty 
condition and the paintwork was scratched. She says she also discovered that the cars 
mileage was actually 96,788 and not 92,000 as expected. Miss C says she contacted the 
dealer who offered to cover the cost of the car being valeted.
Miss C says that when she was driving the car, she noticed that the brakes squealed, and 
the wipers didnt work properly. She says she contacted the dealer again, but was told the 
car had a new MOT and that new brakes had been fitted which needed to worn in. She says 
the dealer offered to post new wipers for her to fit herself. 
Miss C says she then noticed that the cars interior light didnt go off, so contacted the 
dealership about this issue. She says she was told by the dealer she needed to tap the light 
and that they had used the car themselves without any problems. Miss C says she raised 
the problem with the brakes for a second time and the dealership told her to get a quote for 
repairs which she did.
When Miss C contacted the dealership with the quote for renewing the brakes, she says they 
told her the cost was too high and they would post her the appropriate parts together with 
the wipers though nothing was then received. 
Due to Miss Cs personal circumstances the car was then parked up and not used for around 
12 weeks. When Miss C next went to start the car, she says it struggled due to the condition 
of the battery but did work and then the service light illuminated. Miss C says she had driven 
around 5,000 miles in the car by this time.
In March 2021 Miss C took the car to a garage for a vehicle health check. She says she was 
told the car hadnt been serviced in a long time and that it required around £3,500 worth of 
repairs. A health check report was prepared that highlighted issues with the cars brakes, 
suspension, drivebelt and cambelt. Miss C says she was asked to send a copy of this report 
to the dealership which she did, but says she was then blocked from further contact with 
them. Miss C complained to MotoNovo about the quality of the car.
MotoNovo arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent engineer. This was 
carried out in April 2021 and the independent engineer prepared a report about their 
findings. They said they had found the brake pads and discs were worn, there was an oil 
leak from the engine sump, the drivebelt was worn, the nearside rear drop link had play, the 
clutch was heavy, the interior light appeared faulty and the aircon needed servicing. They 
said they werent able to inspect the cambelt.
The independent engineer also noted a deep scratch on the nearside front door which they 
said Miss C had informed them she had reported at the inception of the agreement. 
However, the independent engineer said that the condition of the car was commensurate 
with its age, type and mileage and the repairs that were required arose from general in-
service wear and tear. They said the necessary repairs were the natural associated costs of 
running a second-hand car of this age and mileage. They said the faults found with the car 
wouldnt have been present from the point of sale.
MotoNovo didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint about the quality of the car. It said that it relied 
on the findings of the independent engineer that the current faults all arose from wear and 
tear and hadnt been present at the point of supply. It also said that while it accepted the 
mileage shown on the hire purchase agreement for the car was 93,000 miles it was satisfied 
the actual mileage had been 93,651 which was within tolerance. 
MotoNovo also said there wasnt enough evidence to show the car been scratched prior to 
Miss C acquiring it.
Miss C was unhappy at MotoNovos response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend her complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt think 
MotoNovo had acted unfairly and that the car had been of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply.
Our investigator said that looking at the evidence, he thought the mileage of the car had 
been 93,651 at the point of supply and so Miss C had been able to drive it for around 9,500 
miles. He was also satisfied that the issues identified with the car all fell under what would be 
reasonably expected as wear and tear from general use. And as no advert could be 
produced, he said there wasnt enough evidence that the car had been advertised as having 
had a new cambelt fitted. Our investigator also said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
the car had been damaged before it had been delivered to Miss C.
Miss C disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said the cars mileage had been 
96,788 when it had been delivered to her and that she had raised this with the dealership 
which could be seen from the copies of messages shed provided that she had sent to them. 
She said she had only driven the car for around 5,500 miles and not 9.500 miles. Miss C 
also said she had been told the car had a new MOT, new brakes and a new cambelt when 
shed acquired it. She disagreed that the faults found with the car were as a result of general 
wear and tear.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.Miss C has raised issues both about how the car was described before she acquired it 
and its quality. As the finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement in this 
case, is a regulated consumer credit agreement then this service is able to consider 
complaints relating to it. MotoNovo is also the supplier of the goods under this type 
of agreement, and responsible for a complaint  about  their quality.  
The cars mileage:
Miss C says that the car was advertised with a mileage of 92,000 though the hire purchase 
agreement has the mileage recorded as 93,000 . She also says  that when  she acquired  the 
car the mileage  was actually  96,788.  Miss  C says  this is supported  both by the mileage  
that was recorded  when  the car was MOTd  and by the messages  she sent to the 
dealership.
I havent seen a copy of the cars advert and I understand that, due to the amount of time 
that has now passed, this cant now be produced. So, I dont know what was said about the 
mileage, cambelt or brakes when the car was advertised for sale. 
Ive seen that the dealership says the mileage was actually 93,651 at the point of supply and 
looking at the MOT, which was undertaken in July 2020, this has a mileage recorded of 
93,627. So, Im satisfied on the evidence that I have seen the mileage wasnt 93,000 as 
show on the hire purchase agreement.
Looking at the copies of the messages between Miss C and the dealership, Ive noted that 
many dont have dates as to when they were sent but I can work out roughly when most 
were sent due to references in them as to other events. Ive seen that shortly after the car 
was delivered to Miss C, she contacted the dealership about the underside of the cars visor 
being very dirty and the dealership apologises for that. There was then a message about the 
cars wipers but in neither of these early messages have I seen any reference to the mileage 
being higher than expected or any complaint that the cars bodywork has been damaged.
Miss C appears to have raised the issue of the mileage only after the car has had its health 
check which would mean Miss C didnt complain about the excess mileage until around 
March 2021 which was several months after shed acquired the car. And neither Miss C nor 
the dealership have provided any photographic proof as to the odometer reading at the point 
of supply.
Where evidence is missing or contradictory, then I have to decide what I think is the most 
likely to have happened. Here, I am surprised that if the mileage was over 3,000 more than 
expected that Miss C didnt raise that straight away with the dealership. The evidence Ive 
seen suggests that she didnt actually raise it with them for many months. Looking at the 
mileage recorded at the MOT I dont think its very likely, even if the car was used by 
someone at the dealership that over 3000 miles would have been driven in it in one month. 
So, I think its more likely than not that the mileage at the point of supply was 93,627 which 
was around 600 more miles than as stated in the credit agreement. However, although it 
was more, I dont think 600 miles would make a material difference to the value or quality of 
the car, so I dont think I can reasonably say Miss C was misled as to the cars mileage.
As I think the mileage was 93,627 at the point of supply, Im satisfied that when the car was 
inspected by the independent engineer in April 2021 Miss C had driven around a further 
9,500 miles in it.
The cars bodywork at the point of supply:Miss C has complained that the car was dirty and had scratches on the paintwork when it 
was delivered to her. Ive seen that the independent engineer noted a deep scratch to the 
cars door and has recorded that Miss C said she had reported this the day after the 
inception of the hire purchase agreement. However, looking at the copies of the messages 
between Miss C and the dealership that have been provided, I cant see any reference to a 
scratch on the door. Ive also seen that MotoNovo said in its final response letter to Miss C 
that no evidence that the cars bodywork had been scratched when she received it had been 
provided. This appears to still be the case, and I dont think I can reasonably say, based on 
the little evidence that I have seen, that the car had suffered a deep scratch before it was 
supplied to Miss C.
New cambelt and brakes fitted before the point of sale: 
Miss C says that car was advertised as having had a new cambelt fitted and she was told by 
the dealer it had a new MOT and brakes. As, unfortunately, there isnt a copy of the advert to 
refer to I dont know what it said. The dealership disputes it would have fitted a new cambelt 
as it says this would be a serviceable item and the car had a recent MOT with no advisories 
so there was no need for it to carry out any repairs before selling it. Ive seen that Miss C 
raised the issue of the car having these new parts fitted in her message to the dealership 
following the car undergoing the health check though the dealership responds that it cant 
recall if it had said anything about the cambelt and brakes due to the passage of time. 
However, I think its clear from the independent inspection and the health check that no new 
cambelt or brakes had been fitted.
As both the brakes and the cambelt are serviceable items, that is parts that are affected by 
general wear and tear, then I think it would be unlikely for the dealership to have undertaken 
repairs to these parts particularly as the MOT that been carried out in July 2020 showed no 
advisories. The MOT means the dealership wouldnt have had any need to do these repairs 
prior to supplying the car. On the evidence that I have seen, I dont think the car was 
represented to Miss C as having had recent work done to the brakes and cambelt.
Quality of the car:
The relevant law, that is the Consumer Rights Act 2015, says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely 
that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into 
account might include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicle's history.
Here, the car was around seven years old and had a mileage of 93,627 at the point of 
supply. I think that a reasonable person would expect a car of that age and mileage to have 
issues with repair and maintenance arise after a reasonable period of time. This is because 
the cars components would have already had some wear and tear due to use. I dont think 
the car, unlike a brand new one, would be expected to be fault free.
Ive seen that Miss C raised issues with the brakes squealing with the dealership and that 
she obtained a quote for repairs, but I have also seen she was able to drive a further 9,500 
in the car without having them repaired. So, I dont think I can reasonably say that the brakes 
required immediate work when she raised the issue with dealership. Ive also seen that the car wasnt used for a period of 12 weeks and a car thats left standing can have issues 
arising with its battery, tyres and corrosion to the brakes. So not using the car for that period 
of time wont have assisted with the wear and tear suffered by its components.
While I appreciate that the health check and the independent engineer found faults with the 
car that doesnt necessarily mean it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. All 
the faults found with the car were with parts that would reasonably be expected to need 
repair and maintenance over time. The independent engineer has said that the cars 
condition was commensurate with its age and mileage and the wear found to the various 
parts was as expected.
I appreciate Miss C also raised the wipers and the interior light with the dealership shortly 
after the car was delivered to her, but these were minor issues and easily resolved. Both of 
these parts would again be things that would be affected by the amount of use they had and, 
as I have set out above, I dont think there would be an expectation the car would be fault 
free. 
So, looking at the evidence of the condition of the car Im satisfied it was of satisfactory 
quality and reasonably durable at the point of supply. The issues with the car have arisen 
due to the use Miss C has had since she acquired it. And while I appreciate this will be of 
disappointment to Miss C, for the reasons given Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman