DRN-2896803
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax mis-sold her a packaged 
bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). Bank of Scotland 
charged Ms B a monthly fee for the URCA and provided several potential benefits in return. 
Ms B thinks that Bank of Scotland should refund her all the fees she paid, plus interest. 
What happened
Ms B has banked with Bank of Scotland for quite a long time. Bank of Scotland has looked at 
its records for her, which I believe are reliable, and has told us they show that: 
in April 2006, Ms B opened a fee-free account,
in July 2010, Bank of Scotland sold her the URCA, which replaced her fee-free 
account and for which it charged a monthly fee,
Ms B kept the URCA until at least 20210.
.
I have taken this account history to be correct. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Ms Bs complaint and didnt think that Bank 
of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to her. The adjudicator didnt recommend that Bank of 
Scotland should give Ms B any money back. Ms B didnt agree with the adjudicators findings 
and asked for an ombudsman to review her case. So, it has come to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Ms B and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint, and 
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
In 2010, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank 
accounts, such as URCAs, in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an 
information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. 
Whichever approach Bank of Scotland used for Ms B, as well as giving her a choice, I would 
have expected it to tell her about the URCAs costs and benefits fairly and clearly; and in an 
advised sale I would also have expected it to check that the URCA was appropriate for her 
circumstances. 
Bank of Scotland has told us that it sold the URCA to Ms B on an information-only basis. 
This was its usual approach in 2010 and I havent seen anything to make me think it 
changed its normal practice for Ms B. So, I have considered this complaint to be about an 
information-only sale. 
In 2010, the potential benefits of the URCA included insurance for travel and mobile phones 
and use of a car breakdown service. In some circumstances, Bank of Scotland also offered 
lower charges for overdrafts to customers with URCAs than it usually applied to customers 
with fee-free accounts. As Ms B used a car, travelled from time-to-time, had a mobile phone 
and wanted an overdraft, I think that these benefits may have been of interest to her.
Ms B has told us that Bank of Scotland sold her the URCA during a discussion in one of its 
branches and that it  talked  (her)  into the (URCA)  by telling  her that she would  only get 
an overdraft  or mortgage  if she bought  the URCA.  She now thinks  this was misleading  
and that she could  have  had an overdraft  or a mortgage  with a fee-free  account  as well 
as with an URCA.  Shes  added  that Bank  of Scotland  said she wouldn t be eligible  for 
(a) fee-free  account  and didnt  tell her about  alternatives  to the URCA.  
Obviously, I wasnt present during Ms Bs discussion with Bank of Scotland, and I cant tell 
for sure what it said or didnt say to her. However, I think its unlikely that Bank of Scotland 
stopped her from having a fee-free account. By that time, she had held one for around four 
years and Bank of Scotland wasnt withdrawing them from its customers. Such accounts 
were widely available in the UK and have remained so since. I dont think Bank of Scotland 
could credibly have told Ms B she couldnt have one. I think its more likely that it allowed her 
the choice to keep her fee-free account as an alternative to buying the URCA.
Turning to the question of overdrafts and mortgages, I would like to confirm that Ms Bs 
current belief is correct. It is very rare for Bank of Scotland to decide whether a customer can 
have an overdraft or mortgage based on the type of current account she or he holds. If Bank 
of Scotland was willing to grant Ms B an overdraft or mortgage with the URCA, then its 
highly likely that it would also have given her the same options to borrow with a fee-free 
account. But Mrs Ws point is that she thinks Bank of Scotland misled her about this. 
I understand that Ms B had previously held an overdraft with her fee-free account, so I find it 
unlikely that Bank of Scotland told her she could only have one if she bought the URCA.. 
However, as mentioned earlier, one of the benefits of the URCA in 2010 was that depending 
on how a customer used an account, Bank of Scotlands charges for overdrafts could be 
lower with an URCA than with a fee-free account. Bank of Scotland may well have told Ms B 
that she could only get these lower overdraft charges if she bought the URCA. But as this 
was true, it would have been a fair thing for Bank of Scotland to say. The savings only 
applied if customers kept an overdraft within certain limits and I cant determine the extent to 
which Ms B may have gained from them, if at all, but it was certainly reasonable for Bank of 
Scotland to tell her about them. 
Ms B has also said that Bank of Scotland told her she could get better rates on a mortgage 
if she bought an URCA. But Bank of Scotland didnt usually offer its URCA customers any 
mortgage-related benefits in 2010 and Im not sure how, why or if it may have raised this 
with Ms B. I doubt it misled her that such benefits existed when they didnt or told her she 
could only have a mortgage with the URCA. 
There  doesnt  seem  to be any dispute  that Bank  of Scotland  told Ms B about  the 
monthly  fees for the URCA  and I also think  it probably  told her about  the URCAs  
benefits.  After  all, it was trying  to sell the URCA  to her and it was in its own interest  to let 
her know  what  she could  get in return  for the fee. 
Ms B has also pointed out that she had duplicate cover for some of the URCAs benefits, 
such as mobile phone insurance. But in an information-only sale, this was not something that 
Bank of Scotland had to check. She has also told us that she had an underlying medical 
condition and so doesnt think she wasnt entitled to the travel insurance. She has said that 
Bank of Scotland never asked her about her condition. I dont know much about the nature of Ms Bs health condition. Depending on what it was, 
claims arising from it may have been covered by the travel insurance policy, or Ms B may 
have had to pay an extra premium for such cover, or it may not have been available at all. 
Bank of Scotland didnt have to ask Ms B about her condition, but it did have to tell her about 
the exclusion for health conditions and how she could check extent of the cover available to 
her. It seems to have done this, so I think it met its obligations to her.
Ms B has also mentioned that at some point she tried to close  the URCA  but Bank  of 
Scotland  forced  her to keep  it. She hasnt  told us much  about  when  or how this may 
have  happened  and I havent  considered  it in this decision.  She is free to raise  it further  
with Bank  of Scotland  if she so wishes.  But I cant  give her any advice  about  this or 
speculate  on how Bank  of Scotland  may respond.  Nor can I tell if any complaint  she 
may wish to bring  to us about  it will fall inside  or outside  the rules  and time limits  which  
apply  to the type of cases  we can consider.
So, in summary, while I accept that Bank of Scotland may not have got everything right in 
the way it sold the URCA to Ms B, Im satisfied that it gave her a choice and told her about 
the accounts potential benefits and costs. It doesnt seem to have misled her about 
overdrafts, loans or mortgages. I dont think it mis-sold the URCA to her. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Ms Bs complaint that Bank of 
Scotland plc  trading as Halifax mis-sold the URCA to her. I am not going to tell it to give her 
any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman