DRN-1035793
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Topaz Finance Limited didnt increase the monthly overpayment to 
her mortgage account with effect of June 2019, even though shed asked it to. She's also 
unhappy with the service she received.
What happened
Mrs M had been overpaying the monthly repayment on her mortgage account by £600 per 
month. In May 2019, she contacted Topaz to increase the monthly repayment further, from 
just over £828 per month (including the contractual monthly repayment of just over £228) to 
£1,000. Topaz agreed to that request. 
However, in June 2019, Topaz only collected the contractual monthly payment, meaning that 
Mrs M didnt make any overpayment that month. Around that time, Mrs M also paid Topaz a 
lump sum payment of £2,000 to reduce the amount borrowed. Topaz wrote to her confirming 
receipt of the lump sum payment but mistakenly said that shed paid £1,000 instead of 
£2,000.
Mrs M complained to Topaz. It upheld her complaint and apologised to Mrs M. It set up the 
monthly overpayment of £1,000 with effect of July 2019 and calculated that if that amount 
had also been collected from Mrs M in June 2019, rather than just the contractual monthly 
repayment, she wouldve paid around £1.25 less in interest. Taking that into account - and 
the inconvenience caused to Mrs M - it offered her £50 in compensation. 
Mrs M doesnt think thats enough; shed like Topaz to pay her £150 in compensation.  
Unhappy, she complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
As Mrs disagreed her complaint has now been passed to me to look at everything afresh 
and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Topaz to do anything more. Ill explain why.
Topaz accepts that it shouldve collected an overpayment of £1,000 from Mrs M in June 
2019 rather than just the contractual monthly repayment. It also accepts that it quoted the 
wrong amount in the letter it sent her around that time, confirming the lump sum payment 
shed made to reduce the mortgage amount. Ive looked at the impact this had on Mrs M. 
I accept she wouldve been shocked and frustrated upon discovering that her instructions to 
increase the monthly overpayment with effect of June 2019 hadnt been complied with, 
particularly as only the contractual monthly payment had been collected.   I also think its 
likely that she wouldve been confused by the letter sent to her by Topaz setting out the 
incorrect lump sum amount shed paid off her mortgage. But, from what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that the sum of £50 fairly compensates her for interest amount she wouldve saved if shed overpaid the monthly repayment by the amount she wanted to in June 2019 and the 
moderate amount of distress and inconvenience she experienced by what Topaz did wrong 
here. 
My final decision
Topaz Finance Limited doesnt need to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman