DRN-2709078
The complaint
Miss L and Mr O complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) sent a final 
mortgage statement they requested to a previous address.
Miss L and Mr O want compensation for the trouble and upset they say this experience 
caused them.
Miss L has brought this complaint to our service along with Mr O, but in my decision Ill 
mainly refer to Miss L as shes been primarily dealing with the complaint.
What happened
On 5 February 2020 Miss L contacted Nationwide to change the contact address they held 
on file. Nationwide responded to let Miss L know that theyd changed the address held for 
her on file.
On 22 June 2020 Miss L contacted Nationwide to ask for a copy of their final mortgage 
statement as they were applying for a tenancy of a new property. Nationwide told Miss L that 
they were unable to send it by email, but theyd send it via post and it should arrive within 5 
working days.
The statement didnt arrive as Miss L expected so she contacted Nationwide again on 2 July 
2020 via phone. Miss L and Mr O have said that there was now some urgency about 
needing the statement as their existing tenancy was due to end within two weeks. During 
this phone call Nationwide said that theyd updated an address for Miss L - but not Mr O. 
Miss L and Mr O were unhappy and a complaint was logged. Miss L and Mr O described the 
inconvenience this situation had caused them and provided detail about data protection 
concerns. Nationwide said theyd email the statement instead to Miss L and Mr O.
Nationwide looked into Miss L and Mr Os complaint but didnt uphold it. They said that 
theyd actioned the request from Miss L to change her address, but as the mortgage account 
was a joint account and Mr O hadnt requested an address change  it remained as it was. 
They said this resulted in the mortgage statement being sent to their old address. Miss L and 
Mr O remained unhappy and they referred their complaint to our service for an independent 
review.
An investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. She 
ultimately found (after reconsidering the complaint) that Nationwide couldve checked with 
Miss L before sending the mortgage statement, but overall theyd not done anything wrong 
to the extent that they needed to take further action to put things right.
Miss L and Mr O didnt accept the investigators assessment. They raised a number of points 
including that they feel Nationwide didnt make it clear that any correspondence for the joint 
account wouldnt be sent to Miss Ls new address unless the joint account holder also 
changed their address with the business. Theyve also said that as Miss L had stated in her 
request for the mortgage statement that theyd sold the property, Nationwide shouldve 
realised they were no longer living at that address. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Miss L and Mr O that I think the investigator has reached a fair 
outcome here. So I dont uphold their complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
The request to change the address 
Its clear that in February 2020 Miss L contacted Nationwide to notify them of a change of 
address. This was pro-active and positive. The internal system screenshots Ive seen show 
that Nationwide did action the request and updated Miss Ls new address on their system. 
However - and this is where the issue has arisen in this complaint, they didnt change the 
address for the now redeemed mortgage which was jointly held with Mr O.
Miss L has shown us a copy of Nationwides response to her request dated 5 February 
2020. It states:
Thank you for your message.
We have received your online change of address details, and have applied these 
changes to all your accounts held with us.
 
If you have any accounts that are in joint names, please can I ask that the other 
account holder(s) also contact Nationwide if their address needs to be updated 
too. [I (the ombudsman) have added bold for emphasis - see below]
 
This can be done from their personal online banking sign on or visit a local branch.
 
I understand that this may cause a slight delay; however, I am sure you will 
appreciate that the appropriate security measures must be met before changes are 
made.
Although I acknowledge that Nationwides actions may have later caused Miss L and Mr O 
inconvenience and the stress theyve described, I cant say that theyve done anything wrong 
when actioning the change of address. I say this because they made Miss L sufficiently 
aware (Ive added bold to the relevant text) that if a joint account was held then the other 
party needed to also contact Nationwide to update their details. 
My interpretation of the above response to Miss L is that Nationwide have changed the 
account address for any account held solely in her name. For joint accounts (the former 
mortgage) the joint account holder is also required to request a change of address. It seems 
that correspondence will revert to the first recorded address on the account (their old 
address) if both account holders havent requested to update their address. I find it a reasonable policy thats not at all uncommon for joint accounts more widely and I 
note the concerns that Miss L has fairly raised about data protection. This policy is designed 
to help protect customers  not to make things more difficult and I dont think that was 
Nationwides intention here. Circumstances can change  for example, relationships can 
breakdown and having a policy like this helps ensure that the interests of both parties are 
protected in such a scenario. Ultimately, this is Nationwides policy and not something Id 
seek to interfere with or ask them to change.
The request for the mortgage statement 
When Miss L again contacted Nationwide in June 2020 as she needed the final mortgage 
statement for a new tenancy they were taking on, her request was:
.My partner and I had a joint mortgage with you until January this year when we 
sold our house and repaid it in full. We are currently applying for a tenancy over a 
new property and they want to see the last mortgage statement we received to prove 
we were paying the mortgage. 
However, the mortgage and all the statements has now disappeared from my internet 
bank because it's been repaid and all the records were online. Is there any way for 
you to email me a copy of the last mortgage statement?
Many thanks,.
I agree with Miss L that it wouldve been helpful if Nationwide had just emailed her the 
statement at that point. But its my understanding that for the vast majority of these types of 
requests, Nationwide will send them by post rather than email  for security reasons. I cant 
say theyve done anything wrong by sending the statement initially by post and its 
unfortunate that due to Nationwides policy on joint account address changes and Miss Ls 
interpretation, the statement went to the incorrect address.
Ive listened to the call between Nationwide and Miss L and Mr O from 2 July. Its clear that 
the whole situation caused stress, hassle and uncertainty for Miss L and Mr O. However,  Im 
also satisfied that when they made Nationwide aware at this point that their current tenancy 
was due to end shortly  hence the now really urgent need to be sent the statement, that the 
Nationwide adviser acted positively, sympathetically and emailed the statement to Miss L 
and Mr O.
Ive carefully considered Miss Ls comments that Nationwide shouldve realised when she 
made the request for the statement that they no longer lived at that property. Miss L has also 
told us: Clearly somebody printed the statement and put it straight in the post without 
thinking any further. That may be well what has happened here  but as explained above, 
as Mr O hadnt changed his address, the letter was sent to the old address still held on file.
I acknowledge what Miss L has said about not receiving the statement as expected by 29 
June 2020 will have made the situation more urgent. I say this because it naturally follows 
that it meant Miss L and Mr O were closer to the date of their existing tenancy ending. 
So Ive also considered what the impact was on Miss L and Mr O. Whilst undoubtedly 
frustrating and inconvenient, its my understanding that Miss L expected to receive the 
statement in the post within five working days (by 29 June 2020) of her request. When this 
wasnt received, Miss L and Mr O then contacted Nationwide on 2 July 2020 via phone and 
received the statement by email on the same day. Whilst not seeking to downplay the impact 
here, Ive not seen sufficient supporting evidence to persuade me that a delay of around three days in receiving the statement has impacted Miss L and Mr O or their tenancy 
application to the extent that Id award compensation. 
Mr O and Miss L have suggested a data breach occurred. Theyve outlined their concerns 
about third parties getting hold of their data based on a previous experience - which Im very 
sorry to hear about. But theres no evidence a third party has seen the statement sent to 
their previous address and its also important to explain that were an informal dispute 
resolution service and its not my role to determine if there has been a data breach by a 
company. That would be for other bodies  such as the information commissioners office - 
to decide.
Miss L and Mr O may be disappointed with the overall outcome Ive reached. But my 
decision brings to an end what we  in trying to informally resolve their dispute with 
Nationwide  can do for them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss L and Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman