DRN-2779364
The complaint
This complaint is about Ms B and Mr Rs efforts to arrange a mortgage through Finance 
Advice Group Ltd, a broker firm Ill refer to from hereon as FAG. Ms B and Mr R are unhappy 
with the amount of time the mortgage took, and with the degree of support .and service FAG 
provided when things started to go wrong with the lender. Theyre asking to be compensated 
for a penalty charge imposed by the developer for late completion, loss of amenity from 
being unable to occupy the property for several months, as well as their time, trouble and 
upset.  
What happened
 The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them in detail 
here; not least because many of the circumstances surrounding this application were a little 
out of the ordinary and not commonplace. Our decisions are published and its important that 
I dont include any information that might result in Ms B and Mr R being identified. Instead Ill 
give a brief summary in my own words (rounding figures where applicable) and then focus 
on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint, or 
because I considered it a potential identification risk.
In May 2019, Ms B and Mr R applied, through FAG, for a mortgage with a lender Ill call B, to 
buy a new-build property. The purchase completed in December 2019, leaving Ms B and
Mr R liable for a late completion penalty charge; after negotiation with the developer, the 
charge was settled at a little over £1,730. Ms B and Mr R made separate complaints to B 
and FAG. B accepted partial responsibility for the delays but attributed some of them to 
errors or omissions on FAGs part. B settled the complaint against it by paying £1,000 
towards the penalty charge, and a total of £550 in compensation.
FAG similarly accepted partial responsibility whilst attributed some of the delay to errors and 
omissions on Bs part. It offered to waive its broker fee of £799 (Ms B and Mr R had paid
£299 of this). Ms B and Mr R thought this insufficient and referred the complaint against FAG 
to us. Our investigator recommended FAG pay £300 compensation in addition to waiving its 
fee, but Ms B and Mr R have asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They 
dont believe the compensation is enough to cover all of their out of pocket expenses, 
inconvenience and loss of amenity.
The case has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts.
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 When youre as close to a difficult situation as Ms B and Mr R have been, its a natural 
subjective reaction to want to pursue every individual issue with vigour, and chase out an 
answer to every individual detail. But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and 
impartial, and sometimes that means stepping back from the fine detail and taking an 
overview. It also means that Im not required to provide answers to every specific question 
that comes up, if I dont consider doing so will affect the overall outcome.
Its also easy sometimes for those with a stake in a complaint to fall into the trap of thinking 
that complaint resolution is primarily about finding fault and/or attributing blame. But there 
can often be more (or less) to it than that. There are occasions where its less about deciding 
who did or didnt get things wrong and more about what will set things right. To put it another 
way, sometimes the outcome of a complaint is simply about finding a fair resolution, and in 
my view this is one of those instances.
This complaint is about what FAG did or didnt do; Ive no brief to consider the actions of B. 
That being said, the redress B has already offered (and Ms B and Mr R have accepted) is 
relevant when Im assessing what is fair redress in the complaint against FAG, in particular 
the compensation element. Thats because the two complaints arose simultaneously from a 
common set of circumstances, and I have to be mindful to avoid the risk of double 
recovery.
If nothing had gone wrong, and completion had taken place when theyd hoped it would, Ms 
B and Mr R wouldnt have incurred a penalty charge, but they would have paid FAGs broker 
fee of £799 without a thought to the contrary. As things stand, they remain about
£730 out of pocket on the penalty charge, but FAG has offered to waive its broker fee. The 
fee (which is part of the underlying contract between FAG and Ms B and Mr R and therefore 
reasonably and rightfully due) exceeds the residual penalty charge, so in that context, FAGs 
offer to waive/refund it is fair.
Assessing compensation for loss of amenity, time, trouble and upset is a more subjective 
area, not least because not everyone perceives things the same way or to the same degree. 
Also, mortgage broking is neither an exact science nor a mechanical process, not least 
because there is another party in the transaction - ie the lender. There will also be occasions 
where the normal flow of an application will be extended whilst matter arising are dealt with, 
by necessity and through no fault of any party.
Any order I make for FAG to pay Ms B and Mr R compensation can only take into account 
specific acts or omissions on FAGs part that unduly and excessively delayed the 
completion, Looking at the overall progression of the complaint, FAGs shortcomings clearly 
contributed to, but didnt solely cause, the completion delay.
As Ive already alluded to, B has already put its hand up to its own contribution, but in 
addition, a significant part of the time delay was down to factors outsider the control of either 
B or FAG. Im referring here to the questions raised by the surveyor about construction and 
fire safety when the property was valued for mortgage purposes. Thats what I meant when I 
talked a moment back about matters arising; there were other, minor issues, but that was the main one.
When I take that step back that I referred to earlier, and consider in the round everything 
that happened, taking account of the extent to which Ms B and Mr R have already been 
compensated by B, Im persuaded that FAG should fairly pay £300 in compensation for the 
impact on Ms B and Mr R of its contribution to this transaction taking longer than it should.
Ms B and Mr R dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
FAG will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court 
might impose, Ms B and Mr Rs right to take legal action against FAG over the subject matter 
of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct 
Finance Advice Group Ltd to:
refund the £299 Ms B and Mr R paid towards their overall broker fee of £799;
waive the remaining £500 of the broker fee; and
pay Ms B and Mr R £300 compensation
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman