DRN-1999229
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2004. Miss W says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Briefly:
In 2004 Miss W took out PPI at the same time as taking out a credit card. Miss W says she
thinks things happened over the phone. NatWest initially said the sales channel was
unknown, but it has since said it thinks the sale happened by paper application. I will return
to this later on.
The policy provided protection for Miss W's credit card payments in the event she
couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out a
monthly benefit of 10% of the outstanding card balance at the time of the claim and would do
so for up to 12 months per claim. Its basic cost was around 78 pence for every £100 Miss W
owed on the card.
At the time of the sale Miss W was employed, and she said she couldn't remember if she
was entitled to any sick pay. She's not talked about any other means she couldve used to
make her repayments, and she was in good health at the time.
NatWest's records showed the PPI ended in 2007 while the credit card account itself ended 
in 2011.
I issued my provisional decision of June 2020. I said here that I intended not to uphold Miss 
Ws mis-sale complaint and I invited both parties to let me have anything they thought was 
relevant in response.
NatWest said it had nothing further to add.
Miss W hasnt replied to my provisional decision.
Im mindful that Miss W has not replied to my provisional decision. But Im satisfied Miss W 
received it  it was emailed to her. Im also satisfied she was made aware of the deadline for 
responses (weve also sent two reminders). So, I think its reasonable to assume that if Miss 
W wanted to respond she wouldve done so by now. I therefore think it is safe for me to go 
ahead and issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to PPI complaints on our website and I've taken into 
account what's relevant here in deciding Miss W's complaint.
Having done so, while I know Miss W will be disappointed by this, I've decided not to uphold 
her mis-sale complaint. My reasons are set out below.
how did the sale take place?
I said above that Miss W says she thinks the sale happened by phone. But she's not given
any more detail than this. NatWest on the other hand has provided evidence, which I'm
think suggests the sale didn't most likely happen by phone but by paper application.
NatWest has provided screen shots of its internal system, which shows a reference number
against the credit card application record on Miss W's account. And NatWest says this
corresponds to a paper-based application. NatWest no longer holds a copy of Miss W's
actual application - her account closed more than 8 years ago - but it's provided us with an
example. And I can see here that it bares the same reference number referred to
above.
NatWest says that other information on the screen print further supports Miss W's PPI sale
not happening by phone. It says its record shows the credit card and PPI sale dates match.
It says if the PPI sale had been carried out over the phone, it would've taken place after the
credit card had started - for example during what it known as an activation call where a
customer is asked to ring in to activate their new credit card. In which case the credit card
and PPI sale dates wouldn't match as in Miss W's case.
So, taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence that 
something different happened, I think more likely than not this was a sale by paper 
application - whether completed during a branch meeting or as a result of a returned postal 
application.
did Miss W have a choice about PPI?
did she agree to take it out?
I think NatWest more likely than not made it clear that Miss W didnt have to take out the PPI
and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
I said above that NatWest no longer has Miss W's actual credit card application from the
time. But looking at the example application it's provided I can see there is a separate
section for PPI, which required the customer to tick a box to take out the policy next to the
statement: "For cover tick this box." - it could've been left blank if a customer chose not to
take it out.
So, on the basis that I've not seen persuasive evidence that something very different
happened in Miss W's case, I think Miss W ticked the required box on her application and
chose to take out PPI.
Miss W says that she didn't know she had PPI until very recently. But in addition to my 
findings above, I mindful that PPI would've appeared as an entry on Miss Ws credit card
statements for several years. 
So, if it wasnt something she recognised or hadn't agreed to, I might've expected her to 
have queried it with NatWest sooner.
So, on the basis that I've not seen persuasive evidence that something very different
happened in Miss W's case, I think Miss W ticked the required box on her application and
chose to take out PPI.
Miss W says that she didn't know she had PPI until very recently. But in addition to myfindings above, I mindful that PPI would've appeared as an entry on her credit card
statements for several years. So, if it was something she didn't recognise or hadn't agreed 
to, I might've expected her to have queried it with NatWest sooner.
the information
NatWest says this wasn't likely an advised sale where it recommended the cover to Miss W.
And I've not seen enough to persuade me that advice was given. This means NatWest didn't
have to ensure PPI was right or suitable for Miss W. But it did have to give her enough clear
and timely information about the policy so Miss W could make that decision for herself.
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information NatWest gave
Miss W about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. 
But as I found above, I think she likely chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. And based on her circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for her. For example, she was eligible for the cover; she wasn't affected by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those for existing medical conditions 
or unusual employment circumstances; and given her apparent limited existing means, it 
seems she had a need forcover.
So, it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like
it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Miss W 
off taking out the cover.
This means NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss W. 
But NatWest will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss W because:
NatWest got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Miss W about that. Because NatWest didnt tell her,
that was unfair.
To put that right, NatWest has basically offered to pay back the amount of
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think
that offer is fair in this case.
Putting things right
NatWest has to pay back to Miss W any commission and profit share it got that was more
than 50% of the PPI premium. NatWest should also pay back to Miss W any extra interest
she paid because of that.
NatWest should therefore re-work the credit card account and pay back to Miss W the
difference between what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit
share it got hadn't been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NatWest should also pay Miss
W 8%* simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss W can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons above I've decided that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National 
Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss W.But National Westminster Bank Plc does have to pay back to Miss W any commission and
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium - if it's not already done so.
I make no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman