DRN-3477762
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd was irresponsible in approving his application for a credit 
card and in providing subsequent credit limit increases. 
What happened
Mr M has held two store branded credit cards administered by NewDay. In a previous 
decision I have explained why this service cant look into the first credit card (CC1) - it had 
been referred to this service too late. But we can look into the complaint about the second 
credit card account (CC2).    
Mr Ms application for CC2 was approved in May 2018 with a credit limit of £1,000. The 
credit limit was later increased to £2,000 in December 2018 and £3,200 in April 2019. Mr M 
says that NewDay didnt do enough checks to ensure any of the lending was affordable to 
him. So, he complained to NewDay. 
NewDay looked into Mr Ms complaint but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it 
had correctly assessed Mr Ms credit card application and credit limit increases when they 
were approved by considering information from Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) available 
at the time, the information Mr M provided about his financial circumstances and how he 
maintained his account. So, it didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Unhappy with NewDays response Mr M referred his complaint to us. He said that if sufficient 
checks had been done then NewDay wouldve seen that he was struggling financially.   
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but he didnt think NewDay had done 
anything wrong. He thought NewDay had carried out enough checks when it approved       
Mr Ms application for CC2 and when it increased the credit limit. And he didnt think the 
checks indicated that Mr M was in financial difficulties or struggling to pay his credit 
commitments at that time.  
Mr M didnt agree, and he asked for his complaint to be reviewed again. So, his complaint 
was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision
What I said in my provisional decision dated 13 May 2022
NewDay is required to lend responsibly. It needed to conduct checks to make sure that the 
credit facility it was giving to Mr M was affordable and sustainable. Such checks need to be 
proportionate to things like the credit limits it offered Mr M, how much he had to repay 
(including interest and charges) each month, his borrowing history with it and what it knew 
about him. But there is no set list of checks it had to do. 
NewDay says when Mr M initially applied for CC2 it completed an external credit search 
through the credit reference agencies and asked about his employment, income and monthly 
commitments before agreeing to lend to him. And it has provided the data it collected at the 
time.
Ive looked at the data and I can see Mr M told NewDay  on his on-line application, that he 
was employed on an annual income of £22,000, and that his monthly expenditure  including 
living costs and monthly commitments was £1,200 per month. While the credit file data 
shows that Mr M had other credit commitments, the search results didnt reveal any 
information to indicate that Mr M had any defaults, adverse public records, or any accounts 
in arrears with other creditors. 
So, like the investigator, I havent found anything that I think should have prompted NewDay 
to think Mr M was in financial difficulty or that further checks were needed at that time to 
verify what Mr M had told it when he applied for CC2. It follows that I dont agree with Mr M 
that NewDay lent irresponsibly at this stage.
But Ive reached a different view concerning the credit limit increases in December 2018 and 
April 2019. NewDay has provided data showing the account activity on Mr Ms account from 
inception up to when the limit was last increased in early 2019. And I acknowledge this all 
shows that the account he held with it had been managed well leading up to the credit limit 
increases. But I dont think this information alone is sufficient to determine that increasing  
Mr Ms credit limit was appropriate. 
I say this because the limit increases here were quite significant. The first increase was 
double what was originally approved, and the second increase was triple the initial amount. 
And this all happened within 12 months of the initial application being approved. I can see 
that New Day did do further credit searches when it approved the limit increases. So, Ive 
looked at this carefully.   
And the data obtained at these points show that the level of Mr Ms overall unsecured debt 
was increasing and the amount of available credit he was using had increased from 20% to 
47%. This suggests to me that Mr M was becoming more reliant on credit and I think, this 
information should have prompted NewDay to do more checks.
There is a range of options NewDay couldve taken to complete more comprehensive 
checks. It could have asked for bank statements to verify Mr Ms income and outgoings or
evidence of his income for instance. So, Ive looked at what NewDay would have found out 
had further checks been done. And had NewDay carried out more checks, I think it would 
have found Mr M was unemployed, in receipt of benefit payments and was struggling 
financially. In my view, better checks would have led NewDay to decline the credit limit 
increases from December 2018 onwards. So, I agree with Mr M that NewDay lent 
irresponsibly in this case. 
As a result, I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct NewDay to refund all interest, fees 
and charges applied from December 2018 to date. I also intend to tell NewDay to remove 
any adverse information its recorded on Mr Ms credit file from December 2019 onwards. It 
wouldnt be fair for NewDay to record adverse information about a debt that was lent 
irresponsibly. 
Mr M accepted my provisional decision. NewDay indicated it wanted to respond further, but 
despite being given an extension to the response deadline, it didnt respond further.
What has happened since
Since issuing my provisional decision, I reflected on what I thought NewDay should do to put 
things right.While I hadnt changed the outcome Id reached on this complaint, I did think what I was 
asking NewDay to do to put things right needed to be altered. So, I asked the investigator to 
contact both parties on my behalf to explain that the redress had been changed as follows:
If Mr Ms debt has been sold to a third party, NewDay Ltd should take steps to either
retrieve it or work with the new lender to put the agreed settlement in place.
rework Mr Ms current credit card balance so that all the interest, fees and charges
applied to it from the limit increase in December 2018 are removed.
rework the account to ensure that from December 2018 interest is only charged on 
the first £1,000 outstanding - to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases 
should have been provided.
if an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made, 
NewDay Ltd should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this (or 
ensure the above refund is passed onto the new lender).
If no outstanding balance remains, any adverse information should be removed from 
the credit file.
AND
If the refund means theres no remaining balance, any extra should be treated as
overpayments and returned to Mr M.
AND
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlement.
NewDay didnt reply. Mr M said he still wanted the default removed. In response, I said:
I acknowledge what Mr M has said about wanting the default (CCJ) removing. But until 
NewDay calculates the amount of the charges and interest I've said it should refund, its 
unclear what (if any) balance will be outstanding. If Mr M is left with an outstanding balance 
after the refund these will be funds which he has had the use of (or charges/interest incurred 
on the borrowing I think NewDay lent responsibly) and which I consider is fair and 
reasonable for Mr M to repay. 
If this is the case, I think that it is also fair and reasonable for any direction that I make in 
relation to Mr Ms credit file to reflect this. I know that Mr M wants all the adverse information 
recorded in relation to this account removed from his credit file. But if I were to ask NewDay 
to do this where an outstanding balance remains and which Im satisfied should be repaid, 
Id effectively asking NewDay to reflect that this account has been settled in full and on time 
when this isnt the case. I think that requiring NewDay to report such inaccurate information, 
which doesnt reflect what happened or what Mr M will be expected to do in terms of the 
likely outstanding balance going forward would be arguably be counterproductive, 
unreasonable in its logic and not in Mr Ms interests or that of any future lender. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for NewDay to remove any 
adverse information it recorded on Mr Ms credit file about this account, only if no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made.
Mr M disagreed. He said that on one hand I was saying remove all adverse data and on the 
other hand let the default stay. He didnt think this made sense. But he asked for a final 
decision to be issued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr M has accepted my provisional findings in relation to the outcome of the complaint about 
the credit limits which NewDay approved. And as NewDay hasnt provided any new 
information for me to consider on this point. I see no reason to depart from my findings in my 
provisional decision in this respect.
Mr M has questioned why I originally said the adverse data should be removed and then the 
said the adverse data should stay. But as set out above, the redress will only change if an 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made. As I have explained, if a 
balance is still outstanding, I think its fair that Mr Ms credit file reflects the true status of the 
account.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct NewDay Ltd to settle 
as follows:
If Mr Ms debt has been sold to a third party, NewDay Ltd should take steps to either
retrieve it or work with the new lender to put the agreed settlement in place.
rework Mr Ms current credit card balance so that all the interest, fees and charges
applied to it from the limit increase in December 2018 are removed.
rework the account to ensure that from December 2018 interest is only charged on 
the first £1,000 outstanding - to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases 
should have been provided.
if an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made, 
NewDay Ltd should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this (or 
ensure the above refund is passed onto the new lender).
If no outstanding balance remains, any adverse information should be removed from 
the credit file.
AND
If the refund means theres no remaining balance, any extra should be treated as
overpayments and returned to Mr M.
AND
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman