DRN-3496746
The complaint
Mrs A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly restricted and 
closed her accounts, and that it used some of the funds held within them to repay a debt 
owed by a limited company of which she is the director.
What happened
Mrs A is the owner and director of a company, which Ill refer to as F. Both Mrs A and F 
banked with NatWest. Mrs A held a personal current account and savings account with the 
bank, which are the subject of this complaint. The banks actions in relation to Fs accounts 
are the subject of a separate complaint.
F obtained a £50,000 Bounce Back Loan from NatWest on 11 May 2020. A few days later, F 
transferred £25,000 of these funds to Mrs As NatWest savings account.
In light of concerns as to Fs eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan it had obtained, NatWest 
undertook a review of its relationships with both the company and Mrs A in her personal 
capacity. The bank restricted Mrs As access to her personal accounts while it carried out its 
review. 
NatWest decided that F was ineligible for the loan it had obtained, so it terminated the 
agreement and recalled the funds. The findings of the banks review also led it to end its 
relationship with Mrs A. It wrote to her on 29 July 2020 to say that it would be closing her 
accounts in seven days time. 
Mrs As accounts remained open past the specified date, but she was still unable to access 
the funds held within them. 
On 7 August 2020, NatWest removed £25,000 from Mrs As savings account and applied 
this to the amount owed by F in respect of the Bounce Back Loan.
The remaining balances held within Mrs As personal and savings accounts, which totalled 
around £28,000, were subsequently released to her on 5 July 2021. The accounts were 
subsequently closed.
Mrs A doesnt think it was fair for NatWest to restrict and close her accounts, or to use the 
funds she held in her personal accounts to repay debts owed by her company. She is also 
unhappy at how long she was left without access to her money. 
One of our investigators recommended that the complaint be upheld in part. He said, in 
summary, that:
NatWest was entitled to review, restrict and close Mrs As accounts and it did so in 
accordance with the applicable terms and conditions.
It was fair and reasonable for NatWest to reverse the payment from F to Mrs A that 
had utilised the companys Bounce Back Loan funds once the loan had been called 
in.
NatWest ought to have released the remaining balances held in Mrs As personal 
accounts to her much sooner than it did. He accepted there wouldve been some 
delay in doing so while the bank completed its review, but thought this shouldve 
been finalised by 29 September 2020.
So to put things right, he recommended that NatWest compensate Mrs A by paying her 8% 
interest on the account balances from 29 September 2020 until they were belatedly released 
on 5 July 2021, less any interest that had been earned in that time. He also thought Mrs A 
had been put to some avoidable trouble and upset in being without the funds and having to 
chase NatWest on several occasions about the matter, for which he recommended the bank 
pay her £400.
NatWest accepted our investigators view but Mrs A didnt. She didnt think that NatWest had 
been entitled to use her personal funds in the way it had and thought the proposed 
compensation was insufficient. So the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest was entitled to review its relationship with Mrs A, and the terms and conditions of 
her accounts with the bank allowed it to restrict her use of them while it did so. I think it was 
reasonable for the bank to do so in the circumstances here, primarily because:
Under the separate but related complaint from F about NatWests actions in respect 
of the companys accounts, Ive found that the bank had valid concerns as to Fs 
entitlement to the loan.
£25,000 of Fs Bounce Back Loan funds had been moved to Mrs As personal 
savings account. That represented a possible breach of the terms and conditions of 
Fs loan (which required the funds only to be used for Fs business purposes). The 
bank therefore took steps to protect its ability to recover these funds.
Following its review, NatWest decided to end its relationship with Mrs A. That was a decision 
it was entitled to make. The terms and conditions of Mrs As accounts allowed for their 
immediate closure, and I think it was reasonable for NatWest to exercise that power in the 
circumstances here for the reasons Ive explained above (although it opted to give Mrs A 
seven days notice anyway, and in the event only actually closed the accounts sometime 
later).
Prior to the closure of Mrs As accounts and the release of her funds, NatWest decided to 
remove £25,000 from Mrs As savings account and apply this to the balance owed by F on 
the Bounce Back Loan. Mrs A doesnt think NatWest had the right to do this and I can 
understand her point of view  particularly as the debt was owed by a distinct third party, so 
the bank had no contractual right of set off to use the money in this way. But having carefully 
considered the banks actions in light of the individual circumstances that apply here, I think 
it was fair and reasonable for NatWest to remove these funds for this purpose because:In reviewing the complaint from F, Ive concluded that NatWest reasonably decided 
that the company hadnt been eligible for the loan it obtained. The loan only came 
into existence as a result of Mrs As self-declaration as to her companys eligibility, 
which the bank had reasonable grounds to consider inaccurate.
The loan was also to be used only for business purposes and Ive seen no 
justification for the transfer of £25,000 of the loan funds to Mrs As personal account.
It would not be fair for Mrs A to benefit from these funds given that her company was 
not entitled to them in the first place and when the loan couldnt be used for personal 
purposes. Particularly as Mrs A wouldve been  or, at least, ought reasonably to 
have been  aware of both of these issues.
The £25,000 that NatWest deducted from Mrs As account comprised only of funds 
transferred from the Bounce Back Loan, rather than payments received from other 
sources or for other purposes. The bank didnt use the remainder of Mrs As personal 
funds in this way, and subsequently released this to her. So the recall of the £25,000 
put Mrs A in the same financial position she wouldve been in, had she not received 
the payment from Fs Bounce Back Loan funds.
Having decided to end its relationship with Mrs A on 29 July 2020 and removed the £25,000 
on 7 August, it is unclear why it then took NatWest until 5 July 2021 to release the remainder 
of Mrs As funds to her. I understand from what NatWest has said that this was, in part, due 
to its ongoing review of matters relating to F and the Bounce Back Loan. And I can 
appreciate that it may have been assessing whether or not it had any claim to other funds 
held by Mrs A in seeking to recover money owed by her company. But, like our investigator, I 
think that ought reasonably to have been concluded much sooner than it was. There is no 
set timescale for such matters but I also think that two months represents a reasonable 
expectation in the circumstances here.
As a result, I think that Mrs A was unfairly deprived of access to her account funds from 
29 September 2020  being two months after NatWests decision to withdraw its services 
from her  and 5 July 2021. Its right that shes compensated for this, and I think that the 
settlement NatWest has now agreed to pay is fair  being 8% interest on the amount in 
question in line with our standard approach, less any interest that she earned while the 
balances remained with NatWest. 
Ive not seen that these matters caused Mrs A any particular financial loss  her arguments 
in this respect apply only to losses incurred by her company in having its loan withdrawn, 
which are not relevant to my assessment of the banks treatment of her as a personal 
customer. But I can see that shes had to spend more time and trouble chasing things up, 
and worrying about being without her money, for longer than ought to have been necessary 
as a result of the delays on NatWests part. So its also right that she is compensated for this 
distress and inconvenience, and to that end I also think that £400 is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part and require National 
Westminster Bank Plc to:
Calculate 8% simple interest per year on the closing balances of Mrs As accounts 
from 29 September 2020 to 5 July 2021, deduct any interest earned on funds held in 
these accounts over that period and pay the remainder to Mrs A; andPay Mrs A compensation of £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman