DRN-3675099
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK PLC (Santander) is seeking to recover a Bounce Back
Loan (BBL) that he says was granted to his (now dissolved) limited company and not him.
To put things right, Mr R wants Santander to recover the debt from the Government instead
of him.
What happened
Mr R complains about a BBL in the sum of £45,000 Santander granted in May 2020. Mr R
has told our service that the loan was granted to a limited company under his control that Ill
call R Limited. Mr R says the loan was granted after his business was forced to close during 
the Coronavirus restrictions.
Mr R says he received various computer-generated letters from Santander about the loan
when his business re-opened in May 2021, as Coronavirus restrictions started to lift. He
replied to the letters saying the loan was in the name of a limited company, which had since
dissolved. And that Santander should recover the monies from the Government, as per the
BBL scheme.
Mr R complained to Santander, but it didnt uphold his complaint. It issued a final response
on 25 August 2021 saying Mr R had applied for the loan as a sole trader and that the loan
funds had been paid to his sole trader account.
Mr R didnt accept what Santander said, so he brought his complaint to our service. He said
it was self-evident that the loan was for R Limited as that was the only entity running the
business.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She said the BBL funds had been credited to Mr
Rs sole trader account that appeared to be in the name of the business Mr R had told our 
service about. She also said the application had been completed by Mr R and listed the 
business as a sole trader with a turnover of £365,000.
She said there was no reference to R Limited in the application documents and that the
application form included a declaration that the information in the form was correct.
Mr R didnt agree. He said the BBL funds had been transferred to R Limiteds account and
that he had never seen the loan agreement documents before. He asked for an ombudsman
to review the matter afresh.
On 2 August 2022, I issued my provisional decision. In it, I said:
The evidence Santander has provided suggests Mr R stated the BBL was for a sole trader
when he applied, that it was applied for in the name of Mr R, not R Limited, and that the
funds were paid to an account in Mr Rs name. Theres no reference in any of the key
documents Santander has provided to R Limited. And the agreement is signed by Mr R in
his personal capacity, not as a Director.
Mr R says the statements Santander provided show the monies were transferred to R
Limited, but that isnt the case. They show the BBL funds were paid into Mr Rs sole trader
account, which is named after the [business] Mr R says the BBL was for. The statements 
then suggest the funds were transferred out to accounts in Mr Rs name.
While Mr R says the money was transferred to an account in the name of R Limited, he
hasnt provided copies of R Limiteds bank statements to support what he says. Nor has he
provided any other documents that show the BBL was granted to R Limited.
Further, the loan application declared a turnover of £365,000. Having reviewed information
on Companies House, R Limited has only ever filed accounts once. Those accounts were
dated 30 September 2019, showed net assets of just £100, and were dormant accounts.
All of which suggests R Limited has never traded, and Ive seen no evidence from Mr R to
demonstrate that R Limited has traded, had a turnover of £365,000 or applied for a BBL with
Santander.
When our investigator sent Mr R a copy of the loan agreement, he said hed never seen it
before. And that, if he had, he would have pointed out that the application should be in the
name of R Limited. However, Im not persuaded Mr R didnt see the loan agreement. The
loan application was completed and signed online and, for the reasons Ive set out above,
the evidence all suggests the application was completed by Mr R and not R Limited.
For the reasons Ive set out above and on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded the
BBL was taken out by a party other than Mr R. So, Im not minded to uphold Mr Rs
complaint
I asked both parties to provide any further evidence or submissions by 30 August 2022. Mr R 
sent in minutes of a board meeting of the Directors of R Limited that said R Limited had 
resolved to apply to Santander for a BBL and authorised Mr R to sign the necessary 
documents on behalf of the company. He also sent in a letter from Santander dated 7 
January 2022, addressed to Mr R as a sole trader, confirming his request to amend the 
details on his business account had been completed.
Santander didnt reply to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither the letter confirming Mr Rs account details had been amended, nor the board 
resolution Mr R has provided demonstrate the BBL agreement was entered into by R 
Limited. And they dont change the fact that the contract was in the name of Mr R and was 
signed by Mr R in his personal capacity. And Mr R hasnt submitted any further evidence that 
demonstrates the BBL funds were ultimately paid to R Limited, or that demonstrates R 
Limited was trading and even eligible for the BBL. Nor has he provided evidence to support 
his claim that R Limited was running the business.
Because neither party has submitted any evidence to change my mind, I see no reason to 
alter my provisional findings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman