DRN-3490206
The complaint
Mr G complained about the quality of his kitchen reinstatement provided under his home 
insurance policy. The work was carried out by Zurich Insurance plc (Zurich) following an 
escape of water claim.
What happened
What happened
Following an escape of water, Mr Gs kitchen was damaged. Under the claim settlement, 
Zurich agreed to replace the kitchen and Mr G agreed to use one of Zurichs contractors to 
supply and install it.
Zurichs contractor met Mr G to organise the replacement kitchen, including taking 
measurements for the new kitchen. Mr G chose the type of kitchen he wanted installed by 
the contractor. The contractor then designed the kitchen. Mr G said he raised some 
questions about losing space in his kitchen units e.g. where two drawers were being 
replaced by one drawer. Mr G said the contractor reassured him that the size and space of 
the new kitchen would be similar in size and quality to his old kitchen. Zurich said Mr G 
signed off the designs that were produced for his new kitchen.
During the kitchen installation, Mr G raised several issues with the kitchen that was been 
fitted. Many of these issues were linked to a reduced size or functionality of his new kitchen 
e.g. less cupboard space, loss of corner units, appliances not fitting well in open spaces. Mr 
G said he wasnt reimbursed for taps or filler he purchased himself, which cost him £63.99.
Zurich said the installation [of the kitchen] was carried out in line with the design that was 
provided to the contractors. I am sorry you have been unhappy with the final finish, however, 
as this was in line with the agreed design we are unable to consider this element further. 
Zurich did compensate Mr G £600 for some delays to the progress of his claim and for times 
where it felt it should have communicated better with Mr G. Mr G remains unhappy as he felt 
Zurich havent met the terms and conditions of his policy and not replaced his kitchen with 
one on a like for like basis.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought Zurich had been unfair in not 
reimbursing Mr G for the taps and filler, so he asked Zurich to reimburse this. However, he 
thought the process Zurich followed to supply and install the replacement kitchen was 
reasonable. He thought as Mr G had been involved in the design and had signed the design 
off, it wasnt fair to uphold this part of the complaint, as Zurich had delivered a kitchen that 
matched the design. Mr G disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr G felt the terms and conditions of the policy werent met, I have first checked what the 
relevant part of these say. I can see the policy says it will reinstate damage from an insured 
peril  Zurich accepted that damage occurred. The definition of what reinstatement should 
be expected is set out below:
Reinstatement
a) The rebuilding or replacement of property lost or destroyed which may be carried out:
i) in any manner suitable to the requirements of the insured
in either case to a condition equivalent to or substantially the same as but not better or more
extensive than its condition when new.
Therefore, I agree with Mr G that any reinstatement / replacement needs to provide a 
condition equivalent to or substantially the same as than its condition when new. I have 
reviewed the process that Zurich employed to have Mr Gs kitchen reinstated. It appointed 
one of its approved contractors  this is not unusual in the industry. Insurers will have 
relationships with certain suppliers that are trusted  based on a history of receiving reliable 
products and services at a reasonable price. Zurich appointed its contractor who it had a 
long-term relationship with, so I dont think this approach is unusual or unreasonable.
Zurichs contractor presented a range of units to Mr G to select from. Mr G said the range 
was small, but he nonetheless selected a type of unit to progress the reinstatement with. The 
contractor set-up Mr G with one of its design team who designed the new kitchen based on 
Mr Gs requirements which was like his old kitchen. I have noted that Mr G asked the 
designer questions about the new kitchen during this process. 
I can see that once the design process was completed the design was presented to Mr G, 
who subsequently signed it off by sending a confirmation email saying thanks for the plans it 
all looks good to me, so please proceed. If Mr G had any issues with his kitchen design at 
this point, I dont think he should have signed the design off. In doing so, I think Mr G has 
indicated he was happy with both the units selected and the design of those units. I have 
checked the email trail between Zurichs contractor and Mr G during this process  I can see 
Mr G had a dialogue with the contractor on the design and asked for some minor changes. I 
think this demonstrates the design was clear and Mr G inputted into it at all stages.
Given Mr G had signed off on the design of the kitchen, I think it would be fair for Zurich to 
have assumed that Mr G was happy with the proposals for the new kitchen. However, once 
the kitchen was being installed, Mr G raised several issues where he was unhappy with the 
size of his new kitchen space or lack of storage space. Zurich has said it installed the kitchen 
to the design that was signed off by Mr G. I havent seen any evidence presented to suggest 
this isnt the case. The installed kitchen appears to match the kitchen design.
Mr G said I was not asked (and could not reasonably be expected) to scale
off the plans and check the dimensions as if I was a professional surveyor. Zurich had no
reasonable basis to assume that I had, and failed properly to consider my objections
when I raised them. I agree I dont think Mr G should be expected to be a professional 
surveyor. However, I havent seen anything presented that suggests the design process 
Zurichs contractor followed is different to any other kitchen supplier. A comprehensive and 
scaled plan was provided accompanied by dimensions as well as a panoramic virtual picture 
of the kitchen. Mr G then signed this off. I think Mr G did have a responsibility to check he 
was happy with the design before emailing to say he was happy for the install to proceed. I 
think Zurich would assume he had done this when he signed it off. Therefore, I dont think 
Zurich has done anything wrong as it has installed the units consistently with the design Mr 
G signed off and approved. I think Zurich has met its terms and conditions. Therefore, I wont 
be awarding any compensation in relation to the design or install of the kitchen. I appreciate Mr G said Zurich or its contractors didnt investigate the issues related to his 
kitchen. However, I dont think it ignored these points. Zurich told Mr G that as the design 
had been signed off any changes would incur an additional cost. Zurich felt they had acted 
reasonably by following the design when installing the kitchen. I dont think Zurich acted 
unfairly with Mr G - it communicated its perspective with him.
I think Zurich has been reasonable in saying any changes that were not incorporated into the 
design would now incur a cost to implement. If there had been any part of the design that 
didnt meet certain regulations, then I think that would be different, but no evidence has been 
provided to suggest any regulations have been breached.
I can see there was a misunderstanding with the taps and filler. Mr G said that this would be 
reimbursed, but Zurich has since said the taps werent damaged by the incident so werent 
covered by the policy. However, Zurichs contractor did dispose of the taps with the rest of 
the kitchen. Therefore, as these were no longer available for Mr G to use, I think its only fair 
Zurich reimburse Mr G for these costs (£63.99). Therefore, I uphold this aspect of the 
complaint.
Mr G said Zurich hadnt yet paid the £600 compensation it had offered. If it still hasnt it 
should pay this.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require Zurich Insurance plc to:
Reimburse Mr G £63.99  for the taps and filler
Pay Mr G £600 compensation for communication issues (if it hasnt already).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman