DRN-3185553
The complaint
Mr K complains that Zenith Insurance plc declined his claim under his gadget insurance. My 
references to Zenith include its agents.  
What happened
In October 2020 Mr K bought a gadget insurance policy, insured by Zenith, after purchasing 
a laptop in September 2020. The policy covered theft.
In spring 2021 while Mr K was in a country abroad he says all his possessions were stolen 
including his laptop. He reported the incident to the local police and submitted a claim for 
theft of the laptop.
Zenith declined the claim. It said at the time Mr K travelled the Foreign, Commonwealth and 
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) had 
advised against all but essential travel to that country. The policy excluded cover for claims 
in those circumstances.
Mr K complained to us. He said he had to travel to the country, where he had family, to sell 
some land so his trip was essential.
Our investigator thought Mr Ks trip was essential and the exclusion Zenith relied on wasnt 
clear enough in the policy documents. He said Zenith unfairly declined the claim and should 
reassess.
Zenith disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said the issue wasnt whether 
Mr Ks travel to the country was essential or not but that hed travelled to a country where the 
FCDO had advised not to travel apart from essential travel. Zenith also said the exclusion 
was clear in the policy. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Zenith declined the claim fairly and reasonably. 
Page 4 of the policy says:
CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS

2. This insurance only covers gadgets bought in the countries within the territorial 
limits of the policy. Cover applies throughout the territorial limits of the policy and is 
also automatically extended to include use of the gadgets anywhere in the world up 
to a maximum of 180 days in total in any single 12 month period of insurance, subject 
to any repairs being carried out in the UK by repairers approved by us. No cover is 
provided for claims where you are travelling to a country where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) have advised against all but essential travel. You can 
check the FCO travel advice at www.fco.gov.uk.
So the policy does exclude claims for incidents that happened in a country where the FCDO 
had advised against all but essential travel. Ill refer to that exclusion as the FCDO 
exclusion.
Zenith hasnt provided evidence to support that at the time Mr K was travelling the FCDO 
had advised against all but essential travel to the relevant country. But Mr K hasnt disputed 
that was the FCDOs advice so my decision is on the basis that the FCDO advice against all 
but essential travel to the country was in place at the time.
Mr Ks point is that his travel to the country was essential as he needed to be there to 
complete the sale of a family property. However, I dont think it matters whether or not Mr K 
considered the travel to be essential. For the exclusion to apply the FCDO needed to have 
advised against all but essential travel to the country. As that advice was in place under the 
strict policy terms the exclusion applies.
However, Ive also considered whether Zenith fairly applied the exclusion to decline the 
claim, and I dont think it did.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) is a summary of the key information in 
the policy. The start of the document says the IPID should be read in conjunction with your 
Policy Wording and Policy Schedule to ensure you understand the full terms and conditions 
that apply.
The IPID highlights important points about the policy cover under various headings including 
what is and isnt covered, any restrictions on cover and under the section headed Where am 
I covered?, it says:
Cover applies within the geographical limits of:
Great Britain
Northern Ireland
The Channel Islands and the Isle of Man
Worldwide for a maximum of 180 days in total in any single 12-month period 
of insurance.
I accept the IPID says it should be read in conjunction with the policy wording. But the IPID 
lists, as key information, all the information about geographical limits of cover apart from that 
there will be no cover if a claim event happens in a country where the FCDO has advised 
against all but essential travel. 
The FCDO exclusion wasnt clearly highlighted to Mr K in the IPID, and I dont think this was 
easily understandable from the policy documents either. The FCDO exclusion isnt a 
standalone point under the Conditions and Limitations heading. Its in the last two 
sentences of a point that details where there is cover, which is highlighted in the IPID.
Mr K would need to read the terms and conditions of the policy from beginning to end to 
understand the full effect of the policy. I dont think thats fair or reasonable, and I think a 
reasonable consumer would expect an exclusion like this to be brought to their attention in a more prominent and transparent way.
Overall, I think the way the documents were presented means the combined effect of the 
policy wasnt clear to Mr K. He had no cover at all under the policy if he travelled to a country 
where the FCDO had advised against all but essential travel and I think the failure to 
highlight that in the policy documents created a significant imbalance between the rights of 
the consumer and the rights of the insurer. I dont think thats fair and I dont think its 
probable that Mr K would have bought the policy, or alternatively that Mr K would have taken 
the laptop with him, if hed realised there would be no cover under the policy for taking his 
laptop to the country where he travelled.
I dont think its fair and reasonable for Zenith to rely on the policy exclusion to decline Mr Ks 
claim.
Putting things right
I think it would be fair and reasonable for Zenith to reassess the claim under the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy without references to the FCDO exclusion.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require  Zenith Insurance plc to reassess the claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy without references to the FCDO exclusion.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman