DRN-3355585
The complaint
Ms P complains about the handling of her Legal Expenses Insurance (LEI) claim by 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV). 
Although I will also mention the parties individually, where I refer to LV, this includes their 
agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a very brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Ms P had the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses which was underwritten by LV. 
In 2019 she made a claim as shed had building work done at her home which she says is 
well below the required standard. She wanted to pursue various parties that she believes 
had responsibility for the situation. 
Ms P followed the advice in the policy documents and called the legal advice helpline to 
make a claim. This was initially dealt with exclusively by a firm of panel solicitors Ill refer to 
as L. Ultimately after around seven months Ms Ps relationship with L broke down and 
following the involvement of LVs claims handler A another panel firm M were appointed. 
Ms Ps relationship with M later broke down too. Im aware that Ms P has made complaints 
to the Legal Ombudsman about both L and M. Given that two panel solicitors had been 
used, LV agreed that Ms P could choose her own solicitor. From the available information it 
seems Ms P hasnt yet found a solicitor that will agree to LVs terms of appointment. 
Ms P complained to LV. She is unhappy with a wide range of issues. These include that she 
believes they have breached the policy terms and that her claim was initially streamlined to L 
without the involvement of LVs claims handler. Ms P believes that between the two panel 
solicitors there has been very little progress of her legal claim. She thinks this has caused 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience (in part due to her living conditions as a result of 
the incomplete works at her home). She also believes it has wasted some of the limit of 
indemnity available under her policy and that it has prejudiced her legal claim. 
LV responded to the complaint in December 2020. In broad summary they said they werent 
responsible for the service provided by panel solicitors. And they didnt agree theyd done 
anything wrong. They declined to re-instate Ms Ps full limit of indemnity as shed asked. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend that 
the complaint should be upheld. Ms P still disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Ms P, so Ill explain why.
Ms P has made considerable submissions in relation to her complaint. Ive read and 
considered everything that shes sent in. But I wont be responding in similar detail. So if I 
dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Ms P has made much of the fact that her policy documents say This section of your 
insurance is managed independently on our behalf by [A]. As her claim was initially dealt 
with by L (without As direct involvement), Ms P believes that she hasnt got what she paid 
for and that this is a serious breach of the policy terms. 
Ive considered this but I dont agree. Its reasonably common for large insurers to use other 
businesses to handle claims on their behalf. Here it seems that LV have allowed L to accept 
and progress valid claims received via the legal helpline, without always needing to refer to 
A. Policyholders are able to obtain general legal advice through the helpline, but if the issue 
being discussed is covered by the policy, then L are able to pick it up in the first instance. 
How and with whom an insurer contracts to handle a claim is a commercial decision that LV 
are entitled to make. But LV retain ultimate responsibility for claims decisions made by their 
agent(s) on their behalf. Im not persuaded that Ms P has been treated unfairly as a result of 
LVs arrangement with L. And when an issue arose, A became involved, when there was a 
dispute to manage.
The policy provides that (in the event of a valid claim) Ms P will be provided with cover for 
Legal Expenses. That being Legal fees, costs and expenses incurred by a panel solicitor 
(in the first instance) to progress her legal claim. This is what happened. L took on the claim 
and engaged with Ms P to try to progress matters. 
In a LEI claim, LV as an insurer arent able to provide legal advice or to progress the 
underlying legal action. They are expected to fund a claim (in line with the policy terms) so 
legal professionals can move things forward. And where there is a dispute between the 
insured and the solicitors, Id generally expect the insurer to provide reasonable assistance 
and pass any concerns on so the solicitor can respond. Ms P has alleged that the close 
relationship between L and LV was to her detriment. Ive considered this but I dont agree. L 
as solicitors have obligations to work in the best interests of Ms P (their client). Its common 
for insurers to have close working relationships with their panel solicitors. But that wont 
impact on the solicitors obligations to advise their client appropriately. 
After Ms P had raised concerns about L, A became involved. This is what Id expect to see in 
these circumstances. One of Ms Ps concerns was that a paralegal from L that she was 
dealing with wasnt being adequately supervised. Its common for less qualified staff to act 
on a claim under supervision from a more experienced colleague. And in the circumstances 
here, Im satisfied such oversight was in place and that LV had therefore provided access to 
suitably qualified persons. Ive not seen evidence to support that Ms Ps claim was so complex or unusual that it couldnt have been dealt with by either of the panel solicitors 
involved. 
I appreciate Ms P is deeply unhappy with the service provided by both L and M. But the day 
to day running of the underlying legal claim isnt something that LV are responsible for. As 
Ive mentioned above, their role is to fund the legal expenses on Ms Ps behalf within the 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
When Ms P raised concerns about M, I can see that LV acted upon this. Amongst other 
issues this included arranging for some of the costs involved to be assessed to ensure they 
met the terms of the policy. LVs complaint response said that her indemnity would be 
increased by any amount that the costs assessor found to have been overcharged by M. I 
think this is fair. 
Ms Ps policy says: for any claim or claims arising from one insured event, the most well 
pay will be £100,000. But this isnt an amount for Ms P to spend on her claim however she 
sees fit. There are other terms such as her underlying legal claim maintaining reasonable 
prospects of success and continuing to be proportionate to pursue that must also be 
considered. So whilst I can understand why Ms P is keen to minimise costs, this is 
something that will be managed by LV  who are obliged to make the best use of the 
available indemnity. Ms P would be able to challenge the costs paid if she were to appoint 
her own costs draftsman. That being said, I can see that LV have generally kept Ms P 
informed of the costs paid when asked. 
Once Ms Ps relationship with M also broke down, LV said she could choose her own 
solicitor. LV also said that they would be willing to discuss an hourly rate with a solicitor that 
Ms P proposes. I think this is reasonable. Ms P believes that not having a precise 
breakdown of the remaining indemnity has been a barrier to her instructing a solicitor. Part of 
the reason for this being the requirement for proportionality and Ms P being unsure as to the 
value of her claim. The value of Ms Ps claim would need to be assessed by a solicitor and 
isnt something Id expect LV (as an insurer) to provide.
Overall I dont think LV were wrong to make payments to either L or M for the work done on 
Ms Ps case. I understand Ms Ps strength of feeling about the service provided and the 
standard of the work completed (or the lack of progress made) by L and M, but again, this 
isnt something LV are responsible for. I dont think its reasonable for LV to refuse to pay 
just because Ms P was unhappy with this. And if they had, Ms P potentially might have been 
liable for those costs herself. 
Where Ms P raised concerns, LV responded appropriately and have said they will adjust the 
remaining indemnity (if required) with regard to any costs with M that didnt meet the terms of 
the policy  this is fair. 
There isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can tell LV to increase the available indemnity or 
return it to the original £100,000. Solicitors have been appointed and work has been done on 
Ms Ps legal claim. 
I agree with our Investigator that I cant comment on any subsequent developments beyond 
LVs complaint response from December 2020. Ms P has intimated there may be further 
issues (which include hourly rates for solicitors and an allegation the policy was mis-sold). 
But as LV havent yet had a chance to respond to further complaints, that isnt something I 
can comment on here.
I appreciate that any legal dispute is always going to be an incredibly difficult time. 
Particularly one involving a home where I understand Ms P has been living in far from ideal conditions for some time. But I dont think LV have mishandled her claim and so Im not 
going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman