DRN-1716211
The complaint
Mr J complains that Close Brothers Limited has refused to pay for repairs to a faulty car.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr J acquired a second-hand car costing £6,695 funded by a deposit of £2,000 
and the balance by a conditional sale agreement. It was some 10 years old and had covered 
76,000 miles. Shortly afterwards he encountered a number of faults. These were:
Condenser corroded and leaking
AC pump clutch noisy when not in use
Suspension knocking passenger side
Creaking drivers side
He contacted Close Brothers and it arranged for an independent inspection. The inspector 
confirmed the faults would have most likely been present at the point of sale. It agreed that 
the dealer should carry out the repairs. However, this didnt happen. 
Close Brothers says Mr J refused to let the dealer undertake the repairs and he has since 
driven the car for 10,000 miles and so it no longer considers it should bear the cost of any 
work needed. It says he asked to be allowed to reject the car which it didnt consider was 
right as the dealer was entitled to one chance to repair it.
Mr J says that the dealer only offered to deal with repairs covered by the warranty and this 
wouldnt have included all the faults. As the business rejected his complaint he brought the 
matter to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be 
upheld. 
She noted that there appeared to be a misunderstanding about the repairs. She referred to 
Close Brothers notes which record Mr J enquiring about a third-party garage carrying out 
the repairs.  Close Brothers put this to dealer and the notes state: Dealer called in and said 
they are willing for anything covered by warranty to be repaired under warranty, but 
otherwise they would like the car back instead.
She said that this suggested Mr J misunderstood the offer Close Brothers and the dealership 
had made. He understood it to mean that only repairs which fell within warranty would be 
done. She noted Mr Js testimony had remained consistent and his actions backed up his 
version of events. 
She accepted Close Brothers believed Mr J had been given the opportunity of having repairs 
carried out. She also thought this would have been a fair outcome. She suggested that 
Close Brothers pay for the repairs as recommended in the independent report.
The business didnt agree and said the proposed resolution wouldnt be as straightforward 
as had been suggested by our investigator. It thought the report wasnt sufficiently detailed 
and conclusive as to the exact nature of the faults. It didnt wish to reject its original offer, but 
Mr Js refusal and his continued use of the car had made it impractical. It said Mr J had 
denied the dealer the right to repair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Close Brothers is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
After reviewing the ACE inspection I'm satisfied there were faults with the car, and these 
would've been present or developing at the point of supply, as confirmed by the inspector. 
However, the key issue is whether Mr J rejected the offer of a repair? Having reviewed the 
matter I think there has been some misunderstanding about what repairs would be covered 
and who was able to undertake the work. 
The records show that on 9 August 2019 the dealer called in and said they are 'willing for 
anything covered by warranty to be repaired under warranty but otherwise they would like 
the car back instead.' Subsequent to this it notes that: 'customer not willing to return vehicle 
and will seek legal advice. Accepted for complaint to be closed.' 
It would seem that Mr J had decided not to accept the proposed repair, but on 13 August 
2019 Mr J called the business as its records show: 'Customer called for complaints team as 
has not received the email from them and wanted to let them know the dealer is refusing to 
repair the vehicle.' A further note from the same day states, '[Mr J] called, asking for us to 
review the case again - as he is losing out and he is really trying to be polite about it all  
dealer have just washed their hands when they know they can get away with it.' 
The notes show that this would be passed on to the case handler, but it seems no further 
action was taken at that point.  So, it seems that Mr J was looking to have the repairs carried 
out, but the matter came to a halt. I believe it was his intention at that time to have the repairs done as the remedy to his 
problem and it would seem the best resolution would be for that to happen now. I have taken 
on board the point made by Close Brothers that the matter is more complicated due to the 
passage of time and the faults may have worsened. However, I consider the repair would 
have been done had the business acted on Mr Js calls on 13 August 2019 and I dont 
believe he should suffer because of that.
I think we can use the independent report as the guide for the work that needs to be carried 
out to ensure the car is properly repaired. I note Mr J has indicated that he would accept 
repairs to the air-conditioning condenser unit and air-conditioning clutch as a resolution to 
the complaint, as detailed in the report. I dont think Mr J will derive any additional benefit as 
a result of this work being done much later than anticipated. He has had to deal with a car 
which hasnt been functioning properly for some time and it is only reasonable that it be 
repaired even if that requires additional work which would have been required had the work 
been done at the outset.  Mr J has taken a reasonable position throughout this matter and I 
trust him to do so in working with Close Brothers to ensure the repairs are completed.
Putting things right
Close Brothers should cover the cost of the repairs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Close Brothers Limited to cover 
the cost of the repairs as identified in the independent report. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman