DRN-3518177
The complaint
Miss B and Miss R complain they were victims of an investment scam and that HSBC UK 
Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent their loss or recover their money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Miss B and Miss R were contacted via social media by someone who said they could make 
money from investing in cryptocurrency. The broker asked them to first purchase 
cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company and then load the crypto onto 
an online wallet.  
They were initially asked to pay £200, followed by a fee of £300, which Miss B paid from an 
account she held with a different bank. On 6 July 2021, Miss B and Miss R made a further 
payment of £539.55 (and a fee of £14.83) from their HSBC account using a Visa debit card.
Miss B and Miss R complained to HSBC when they realised theyd been victims of a scam, 
but it said it wasnt responsible for their loss as theyd provided their payment information 
knowingly and willingly. It also said the Contingency Reimbursement Model (CRM) didnt 
apply. 
Miss B and Miss R werent satisfied and so they complained to this service. But our 
investigator didnt think their complaint should be upheld. She explained Miss B and Miss R 
had authorised the payment, which meant theyd given an instruction for HSBC to make a 
payment from their account. So, the starting position was that they were liable for the 
transactions. Our investigator went on to explain that while banks are under an obligation to 
follow their customers instructions, HSBC had a duty to exercise reasonable skill and care, 
to follow good industry practice and take steps to keep Miss B and Miss Rs account safe.
Our investigator noted HSBC didnt treat the transaction as unusual and didnt send a 
message to Miss B and Miss R to question the payment. But she didnt think the payment 
was particularly usual or suspicious considering Miss B and Miss Rs normal account and 
payments activity. And as they didnt speak to or interact with HSBC staff at the time of the 
payment, she didnt think HSBC had missed an opportunity to identify that the payment was 
being made in relation to a scam. So, she didnt think HSBC should be held liable for the 
transaction.
Our investigator also considered HSBCs actions once it became aware of the scam. She 
explained that while there are certain circumstances where banks can ask for payments to 
be refunded, theres no obligation for the bank to raise a chargeback request when a 
customer asks for one. And in this case, she thought a chargeback was unlikely to have 
been successful because the cryptocurrency was loaded onto an online wallet at Miss B and 
Miss Rs request, so the merchant had fulfilled its obligations. Consequently, our investigator 
didnt think it was unreasonable for HSBC to not raise a chargeback claim. 
Miss B and Miss R have asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They 
maintain HSBC should refund the money because, while they did authorise the payment, 
they only did so because they were victims of a scam. Miss B explained she was in a 
vulnerable situation and has been left with depression and without enough money to pay 
bills.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its right that the CRM code wouldnt apply as the funds were not paid into an account held 
by another person.
Im satisfied that although Miss B and Miss R didnt intend their money to go to scammers, 
they did authorise the disputed payments. HSBC is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make. But, where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the 
them even though they authorised the payment.
Miss B and Miss R have lost the payments they made to an account held at a genuine 
cryptocurrency exchange company. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and 
therefore the extent of what we would expect HSBC to have done to protect Miss B and Miss 
R is restricted to triggers, meaning I need to consider whether the transactions were so 
unusual that HSBC ought to have intervened to warn Miss B and Miss R when they tried to 
make the payments.
Ive considered the nature of the payment in the context of whether it was unusual or 
uncharacteristic of how Miss B and Miss R normally ran their account and I dont think it was. 
It wasnt for a particularly large amount and it was made to a legitimate company in respect 
of which there were no FCA warnings. So, I dont think it needed to have been flagged by 
HSBC.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by VISA whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card 
issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) 
a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Miss B and Miss R).
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme and HSBC is bound by the card scheme operators (Visa 
in this case) rules. But being the victim of a scam doesnt automatically entitle the payer to a 
refund through the chargeback scheme. HSBC didnt raise a chargeback claim because, for 
the claim to be successful, Miss B and Miss R wouldve needed to show the cryptocurrency 
exchange company didnt provide the intended service, which it did. Im satisfied therefore 
that HSBCs conclusion that the chargeback claim would be unsuccessful was fair.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as well 
as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Miss B and 
Miss R have lost money and the effect this has had on them. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think HSBC is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman