DRN-3636450
The complaint
Mr P complains that he wasnt advised he would be liable for the cost of completing an MOT 
on a car he was financing through an agreement brokered by Xlcr Vehicle Management Ltd 
(Xlcr). He says the agreement was therefore mis-sold. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P, but I agree with the investigators opinion.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the hire agreement said that Mr P should keep the Vehicle in good order, 
repair, and condition.
The MOT that was completed in March 2022 before the finance agreement ended showed 
that the brakes were not in a good order as they were deemed of unroadworthy standard.
It was therefore Mr Ps responsibility to ensure the brakes were returned to a good condition 
before he returned the car to the finance company.
As hed chosen not to take out a maintenance package those costs were not covered for him 
and a warranty would not have covered serviceable items subject to wear and tear such as 
the brakes. 
Mr P says he wasnt told that as the car was pre-registered an MOT would still be necessary. 
But I dont think hes been disadvantaged by that as I can see that the business did accept 
that they could have made the need for an MOT clearer to Mr P and that they have therefore 
agreed to refund the cost of the MOT. 
And, regardless, of whether an MOT was required or not, it was always Mr Ps contractual 
responsibility to return the car in good condition and I dont think Xlcr were wrong not to 
refund Mr P for the cost of the brake repairs.
Mr P also says that had the MOT not identified the brakes were wearing thin he wouldnt 
have needed to replace them, as no warning light had illuminated on the car. I cant be sure 
whether a warning light was present or not, but the MOT demonstrates with certainty that 
before the car was to be returned the brakes were overly worn. In those circumstances 
theyd need to be replaced if the car was to be returned in a good condition. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman