DRN-4411550
The complaint
Mr S complains about AWP P&C SAs handling of a claim he made under his missed event 
insurance policy. 
AWP is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As AWP has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to AWP includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
Mr S took out missed event insurance when he booked tickets for himself and three others to 
go to a festival. Shortly before the event, Mr S made a claim under his missed event 
insurance policy with AWP, because two members of his party were unwell.
Mr S says it took AWP around three months to send him a payment which was only the 
amount hed paid as a deposit. He sent AWP documents to support his claim several times 
because it said they didnt have what they needed. Mr S says that in May 2023, AWP told 
him hed receive a payment for the full amount of the tickets within five working days. 
However, when he chased AWP, it told him the claim wasnt going through and it was being 
investigated by AWPs complaints team. 
Mr S then received a final response letter saying the claim wasnt covered because it was 
due to a pre-existing medical condition, which he says isnt true. So, Mr S asked our service 
to consider the matter.
Our investigator thought Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He didnt think AWP had shown 
that an exclusion applied. He recommended AWP settle the claim and pay Mr S £150 for 
distress and inconvenience.
AWP disagreed with our investigators outcome. It said it had received medical information 
showing the customer was suffering from anxiety and stress, however the document does 
not suggest when they started suffering from this, which clearly indicated it was a pre-
existing condition. It said it was relying on policy exclusions to decline the claim.
Mr S told us AWP had asked him for bank details to settle his claim, but it didnt make the 
payment. He said after he called it a few more times to chase the payment, AWP told him 
the claim had been settled in November 2022 and no other money was outstanding.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
AWP has relied on the following policy exclusions to decline Mr Ss claim:
Something that you knew about at the time of booking this insurance;
Something that happened before your policy or event tickets were purchased 
(whichever is later) and which could reasonably have been expected to be the 
reason for a claim, unless we agreed in writing to cover it
AWP says the claim was declined due to a pre-existing medical condition. It says that the 
customer was suffering from anxiety and stress, however the document does not suggest 
when they started suffering from this, which clearly indicated it was a pre-existing condition.
Mr S has provided fit notes for his partner and his mother. The fit note for his mother says 
she was not fit for work for 13 days due to an acute stress reaction. The fit note for Mr Ss 
partner says she was not fit for work for a period of two weeks due to anxiety. There is 
nothing on these documents that suggest either of these conditions were pre-existing. 
I can see from the booking confirmation that the tickets were purchased around eleven 
months prior to the event. Im not persuaded that Mr S, his mother or his partner would 
reasonably have known that they would be sick around the time of the event. So, even if 
there was evidence to show that the ticket holders conditions were pre-existing, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair for AWP to rely on the exclusions it has to decline the claim.
I think the customer service Mr S has received from AWP throughout his claim has been 
poor. There have been significant delays in dealing with his claim. AWPs communication 
with Mr S has been unclear. He was asked to send documentation hed already sent in 
several times, and hes been given conflicting information about the outcome of his claim. 
This was frustrating for Mr S and took up his time. So, I think it would be fair for AWP to pay 
Mr S £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Putting things right
AWP should:
Settle the claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and 
Add interest to the above at 8% simple per year* from the date Mr S made the claim 
until the date the settlement is paid and
Pay Mr S £150 for distress and inconvenience.
*If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to put 
things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman