DRN-3722789
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M are complaining as trustees of a trust about Wesleyan Assurance Society 
(Wesleyan). Theyre unhappy with the advice given by Wesleyan in relation to Mr Ms 
pension and his Capital Investment Bond (CIB) which is held in that trust.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Wesleyan have provided limited evidence, so Ive had to base my decision on what 
we have received. My decision is based on whats most likely to have happened 
given what Ive seen.
My role is to consider whether the advice given by Wesleyan was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs M  thinking about whether the recommendation took into account their 
objectives and financial situation. 
Mr M says he had a number of meetings and phone calls with Wesleyans financial 
consultant. 
In the June 2020 annual financial review, he says, he spoke with the financial 
consultant about consolidating his pensions and taking a lump sum of cash out of the 
pensions  to pay for his daughters wedding. 
In March 2021, the financial advisor sent Mr M a text message apologising that 
thered been a bit of a delay in sorting the pensions out and asking Mr M when he 
needed the money by. Ive asked Mr M but havent seen that Mr M replied to that 
message.
In May 2021, Mr and Mrs M met again with the financial consultant for their 2021 
annual financial review. The letter summarising the meeting sets out a 
recommendation to take the cash needed from the CIB instead of from the pension. It 
states: The initial advice charge for placing the pensions into drawdown to enable 
the maximum tax free cash available of £26,118 would have cost £3,231. The letter 
goes on to say that there would be no tax consequences or other costs of a partial 
encashment of the bond and therefore that this was the option that Wesleyan 
advised.
Mr M then sent both a text message and an email to the financial consultant 
confirming that he wanted to take the money out of the CIB. But he says he did this 
under pressure because he needed the money and had been told there was no 
longer time to take it from his pensions.
Its clear from the May 2021 letter that the financial consultant considered Mr and 
Mrs Ms desire to access cash from Mr Ms investments and the associated costs. I 
cant say that advice was unsuitable  its clear that the charges would have been 
significantly higher to take the money from the pensions.
Mr Ms said hes unhappy that the money came from his CIB because it reduced the 
capital in the bond which means that his monthly withdrawals are now reducing the 
value of the bond each month and the capital will eventually run out. Hes not 
explained why he wanted it to come from the pensions and its not clear that hes 
considered the impact a withdrawal from the pensions would have had on his future 
income.
I appreciate that urgency may have been a factor in Mr Ms decision to take the 
money from the CIB. But I dont think that was Wesleyans fault  it seems Mr M 
didnt reply to the financial consultants question as to when he needed the money 
and then got in touch again when the deadline was less than a month away.
To summarise, I cant say Wesleyans advice was unsuitable in the circumstances and so 
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M as 
trustees of the P Trust to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman