DRN-1023483
complaint
Mr B says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr B bought the policy in March 2004 during a telephone call with Capital One. The policy 
cost 79p per £100 Mr B owed on his credit card and it would have paid 10% of the 
outstanding balance on the card each month for up to 12 months if Mr B was too unwell to 
work or had lost his job. The PPI would have also paid a benefit in the event of death.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The PPI was sold during a telephone call. Capital Ones not been able to give us a recording 
of the call. I dont think thats unusual given how long its been since the PPI was sold. But 
that means I dont know exactly what was said about the PPI at the time it was sold to Mr B.
So Ive looked at everything I do have to decide what I think is more likely to have happened. 
Ive also taken into account what I know about how Capital One sold policies during 
telephone calls around the time this policy was sold. And based on what Ive seen I think its 
likely that during the call Mr B would have been made aware that the PPI was optional. I also 
think he would have been asked to agree to it being added to his credit card account.
Capital One says it didnt recommend that Mr B take out the PPI. Mr B on the other hand 
says the PPI was recommended to him. So Ive thought about what both parties have said, 
taking into account the available information from the time of sale. Having considered this, I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Capital One assessed Mr Bs circumstances at the 
time and recommended that Mr B take out the PPI. This means Capital One didnt have to 
check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed 
to decide if it was right for him.
 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mr B chose to take out 
the PPI, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mr B has told us he would have been entitled to at least three months sick pay from his 
employer if he was too unwell to work. Hes also told us that he had some savings which he 
could have used to help cover his credit card repayments.
Having thought about what Mr B has said about his sick pay and savings, I dont think this 
means he wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay Mr B would have received from his employer and potentially 
for longer than he would have received full pay. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mr 
B was ever made redundant and would have enabled him to use his savings for any other 
financial responsibilities he may have had. In addition to this, the PPI would have paid a 
benefit in the event of death.
So overall, I think Mr B could have found the policy useful if he ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think that any better information would have put him off from taking out the policy.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Capital One didnt tell 
Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what hes said about not being told 
about the cancellation period. But these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman