DRN-3916154
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a subsidence 
claim they made under their home insurance policy.
Mr S has primarily dealt with the claim and complaint. So for simplicity, Ill refer to him only.
Reference to AXA includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr S got in touch with AXA in 2011 about damage to his extension.
AXA accepted the damage had been caused by subsidence and was covered by the 
policy. It removed trees it thought were causing the subsidence problem and carried 
out repairs to the extension. The claim concluded in 2014.
Mr S noticed further damage in the same area in 2018. By that time, his home 
insurance was provided by another insurer, F. He got in touch with F and they 
accepted the damage had been caused by subsidence. F thought trees were again 
the cause of the problem. Concerned about the risk of heave if too many trees were 
removed, F carried out ground improvement work to stabilise the extension.
Both AXA and F charged a subsidence excess. And both recorded a subsidence 
claim on Mr S claim history.
Mr S complained to AXA. He said the damage in 2018 was a continuation of the 
damage from 2011 and should be considered as one claim. And that meant he 
should only have had to pay one excess and only have one claim recorded. Because 
two claims had been recorded, he thought he was paying unnecessarily high 
premiums, it was harder to find insurance with other companies, and it would be 
harder to sell his home in the future.
AXA said it had fulfilled its liability in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. It 
said it hadnt received any reports about the recent damage and would investigate 
further if anything was shared with it.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She noted the recent 
damage was in the same place as a result of the same cause, four years after AXA 
had carried out repairs. She wasnt satisfied this amounted to a lasting and effective 
repair. She said the recent damage should be considered a continuation of the earlier 
claim. Because of that, AXA should reimburse the second excess and the difference 
between the premium Mr S would have paid had only one claim been recorded and 
what he actually paid.
Mr S accepted our investigators view. AXA didnt. It insisted that as it hadnt received 
a report outlining what it had done wrong when handling the claim, it wouldnt take 
any further action.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made a separate complaint to F  and S, the broker. In this decision, Ill 
only be able to consider how AXA has acted. So thats what Ill focus on.
AXAs main objection to treating the latter damage as a continuation of the earlier 
damage  and taking the steps our investigator suggested  is because it hasnt 
received a report to say what it had done wrong and/or hasnt been asked by F to 
contribute to the cost of the latter damage.
But Im not persuaded AXA needs these things to take action as the facts presented 
by Mr S speak for themselves.
AXA accepted the damage was caused by subsidence and thought it was the result 
of nearby trees. After removing those it thought were causing the problem, it carried 
out a period of monitoring and said it showed stability had been achieved. Building 
repairs were completed in late 2014.
In 2018, the problem reappeared in the extension. Photos provided by Mr S show the 
damage in 2011 was very similar to that in 2018  almost exactly the same in some 
cases. The 2018 damage was referred to F, who identified other trees as the cause 
of subsidence but chose a ground improvement method of stabilising the extension 
due to concerns about the risk of heave.
I would expect an insurer to ensure that any repairs it carries out are effective and 
lasting. In a subsidence claim, that includes ensuring the structure has been 
stabilised and is likely to remain stable for a reasonable period of time.
In this case, the property became unstable and damage returned to the extension 
within four years. Im not satisfied this amounts to an effective and lasting repair. I 
think most people would reasonably expect a structure to remain stable and damage 
free for much longer than four years after a subsidence claim.
Had the cause of the 2018 damage been something completely unrelated to the first 
claim, I may not find it fair to hold AXA responsible for it. But here, the same damage 
returned in the same place due to the same cause  nearby trees. As a result, Im not 
satisfied AXA provided a lasting and effective repair.
I know AXA doesnt think it acted unreasonably based on what it knew at the time. In 
particular it points to the monitoring, which it says showed stability after two years of 
readings. I can understand how that would have given the impression that tree 
removal had stabilised the extension at that time. But given how soon the same 
problem re-occurred, Im not persuaded it would treat Mr S fairly to treat this as two 
separate claims.Overall, Im satisfied it would be fair to treat the latter damage as a continuation of 
the initial damage  so effectively there is one claim only. If there had been one claim 
only, Mr S would have been liable for the first excess only  and there would only 
have been one subsidence claim recorded.
To put things right, AXA should reimburse the cost of the second excess. I 
understand this was £1,000.
Had AXA dealt with and recorded a second subsidence claim, I would have asked it 
to remove that claim and recalculate the premiums without it  and refund any 
difference.
But as F dealt with the latter damage and recorded a second claim, I cant ask AXA 
to remove it. I found in the separate complaint against F that it would be fair for F to 
record a claim for the damage it dealt with. I also found it should disregard the 
second claim when calculating future premiums and other policy terms from the 2023 
renewal onwards. That will ensure Mr S is treated fairly from that point.
That leaves the intervening years to consider  2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022. At each 
of those renewals, the premium was calculated on the basis of two claims, when 
effectively there was one. If the second claim led to any additional premium, I think it 
would be fair for AXA to refund that additional premium.
One option is for AXA to get in touch with F and find out what F would have charged 
without the second subsidence claim recorded. However, that may take some time 
and wont be fully within AXAs control. An alternative is to estimate how much the 
premium has increased by as a result of the second claim over those four years and 
for AXA to pay that amount. It wont be precise, but it will be simple, pragmatic, and 
provide a prompt resolution.
Ive taken into account the premium in 2018, prior to the second claim, and the 
premium at the subsequent renewals. Ive also considered how much it would likely 
have increased by, even without the second claim. There are a wide variety of 
estimates for how much buildings insurance premiums increased by on average 
during those years, which Ive factored into my thinking. Generally, they estimate 
annual increases rising over time, as the rising cost of building materials impacted 
premiums more significantly more recently.
Overall, Im satisfied £1,000 is a reasonable estimate of the likely additional premium 
paid during that time as a result of the second claim. So thats what I think AXA 
should pay.
I know Mr S is concerned that a second claim may make it harder to find insurance 
with other companies. And it may make it harder for him to sell the property in the 
future.
Once a home has suffered subsidence, it can be harder to insure and/or sell. Thats 
not something I can hold against AXA, thats a consequence of the original 
subsidence problem itself. I could hold it responsible for any consequences if the 
second claim made things more difficult than they would otherwise have been.
Whilst I cant rule out the possibility that a second claim could make things more 
difficult, I havent seen any evidence to show thats likely to be the case. So I dont 
think theres anything further for AXA to do to put things right.Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S said he accepted my provisional decision.
AXA responded to make a number of points. Ill summarise the key ones:
2018 was an extraordinary year for subsidence claims as a result of the hot and dry 
weather during that year.
Monitoring had confirmed the property was stable and it remained so for four years. 
Its not unusual for cracks to return in the same place as theyre the weak points.
The two claims had different causes  the first was due to root induced clay 
shrinkage subsidence and the second was due to the weather event, possibly 
exacerbated by the remaining trees.
The weather event was unforeseeable.
If F had thought the issues were linked, they would have approached AXA to recover 
costs  and they didnt do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main points of AXAs response to my provisional decision are the same ones it had 
argued throughout the complaint and which I took into account when reaching my provisional 
findings. So, whilst I note the points its made, Id already thought about these arguments 
previously. Looking at them again, my opinion hasnt changed. I wont repeat the findings.
The fundamental point remains that AXA should provide a lasting and effective solution to a 
subsidence problem. But the problem returned within four years, which Im not satisfied can 
be described as lasting in the context of structural stability.
AXA has argued the two sets of damage had different causes  so it wouldnt be fair to 
consider the latter a continuation of the former.
In 2011, AXA said the cause was subsidence due to tree roots. Following the return of 
damage in 2018, F also thought the damage had been caused by subsidence due to tree 
roots. It chose not to remove any trees due to heave concerns, but it was nonetheless 
satisfied that clay shrinkage was once again the problem, as a result of nearby tree roots 
drying the subsoil. I havent seen F label the cause as a weather event unrelated to the 
trees or clay shrinkage subsidence. So Im not satisfied the cause of the latter damage was 
unrelated to the cause of the former damage, as AXA suggests.
I agree that 2018 was generally considered to be a surge event for subsidence claims. That 
means there were significantly more claims than an average year. But 2018 isnt the first 
year this has happened  it often happens as conditions fluctuate from year to year. So Im 
not persuaded it was unforeseeable that a surge year may occur again in the near future. 
Overall, I remain satisfied it would be fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons outlined 
and make the award I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Reimburse the cost of the second excess.Pay £1,000 to reflect the likely additional premium paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman