DRN-4465208
The complaint
A partnership which Ill call S complains that First Data Europe Limited (trading as Clover
Merchant Services) didnt set up their account correctly which has led to incorrect charges
being applied to certain transactions.
The complaint is brought on Ss behalf by one of the partners, Mr F.
What happened
S told us:
In June 2021, they took out an agreement with Clover for it to provide them with
merchant banking services for different types of transactions, including those where
the Card [was] Not Present (CNP). Different transactions incurred different rates
depending on whether the card was present or not, and if they were qualifying
transactions which incurred a lower rate.
They were told by Clover that for CNP transactions, if they verified a customers
address and post code, these would be treated as qualifying transactions and subject
to the lower rate. However, this wasnt happening and all their CNP transactions
were being treated as non-qualifying.
They believed there was an issue with the terminal supplied by Clover because it
always said there had been no cardholder verification even if theyd input the correct
address details to verify their customers.
Clover told them that if they made an error inputting an address or wanted to check
the details were correct before processing a payment, that the terminal would allow
them to reinput this correctly. However, that wasnt the case, and they were unable to
correct any mistakes or check the details. Their only option was to void the
transaction which caused them and their customers inconvenience as the funds
were then blocked.
Initially they were only being overcharged on Mastercard scheme transactions, 
however, since the complaint had been brought to this service, they were now 
experiencing the issue with VISA transactions too.
Clover hadnt understood their complaint or acknowledged the email from the sales
manager telling them how their CNP transactions would be charged, provided they
obtained the verification information. It also hadnt replied or updated them about
their complaint when promised.
Clover told us:
It was applying the correct non-qualifying rates to S transactions, which the
Partners had accepted when theyd signed the merchant services agreement.
Non-qualifying rates were applied when transactions werent in line with the merchant
agreement or card scheme rules, and it had no control over this.
It identified there was an error on Ss account which meant that CNP transactions
hadnt been charged correctly and it was refunding the company £1,076.22. The
error had now been corrected, but some card transactions would still be non-
qualifying, and this would show on Ss statements. It then refunded a further £226.22
but said the system issue had been resolved and any charges S was incurring were
now correct.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought that Clover had agreed
with S that certain transactions would be free but had then proceeded to charge the
partnership unfairly. He said that based on the evidence provided by both parties, S was
validating the addresses for CNP transactions as instructed by Clover, so these should have
been treated as qualifying transactions. So he recommended that Clover refund the charges
that had continued to be taken unfairly and hadnt already been refunded  along with £200
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Both parties accepted the investigators view. However, Clover didnt proceed with the
recommendations it agreed to and then said it had accepted the view in error. So the
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 November 2023. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to 
uphold it.
Theres not much more that I can add to what our investigator has already said, and 
as neither party disputes that an error has taken place, Ill focus on how I think Clover 
should put things right.
S says that Clover treated them unfairly as it has charged them the wrong rate for 
CNP transactions. Clover has now accepted that it made a mistake, apologised, and 
refunded S the charges the incurred from June 2021 until September 2022. However, 
S says that although it now appears that Clover has resolved its issues for VISA 
payments, they are being charged incorrectly for Mastercard payments and therefore 
Clover still owes them a refund of these charges from October 2022 onwards.
Clover said that its system issue had been resolved, and any transactions going 
forward were incurring the correct fee. It also said that some card transactions would 
always incur the non-qualifying rate and that this was in line with the terms S had 
agreed to. But Im not persuaded thats the case. I say that because Ive seen the 
email from Clover to S in mid-June 2021 when they took out their agreement, which 
confirmed that CNP transactions would incur the same rate as their other 
transactions, provided the full postcode and door number or name is entered and 
that both entries are confirmed as correct by the card issuer.
Ive also seen that Clover only provided a breakdown of personal credit and debit
transactions, business credit and debit, diners card transactions and American 
Express transactions. So based on the evidence from both parties, I think its 
reasonable that S believed that all transactions which were verified in the manner 
advised by Clover, would be captured by this, and treated as qualifying  regardless 
of the card issuer.S has told us that Clover has now corrected the issues they were experiencing with 
VISA transactions. However, they are still being overcharged on their Mastercard 
transactions each month. Clover initially told us that the non-qualified transactions 
were being applied correctly because S wasnt verifying the address information on 
the terminal as theyd been advised. However, based on the evidence provided from 
both parties, Im not persuaded thats the case.
Ive looked at the sample statements provided and seen that Clover has applied the 
non-qualifying rate for transactions which Clovers own records say were verified 
correctly. So I dont think Clover has treated S fairly here and I think it should refund 
any transactions that were incorrectly charged at the non-qualifying rate if the 
address verification was correct.
S also says they were told the terminal would give them the option to check the 
address before making a payment and change it if needed. So they dont believe 
they should be charged the higher rate even if the address verification fails and they 
choose to continue with the payment. But I dont agree. Ive seen the email from 
Clover, and I can see that it does say that if the address is incorrect, they can either 
continue  effectively without verifying their customer  or void the transaction 
without cost. So, Im not persuaded S was told they could change an address mid-
way through a transaction without processing it in one of these two ways.
Ive seen that S clarified this with Clover at the time and accepted this, and S has 
already told us they do have the option to void transactions if they are made aware 
the address is incorrect and have used this  albeit this causes inconvenience. So I 
wont be asking Clover to refund any transactions which were treated as non-
qualifying when they correctly failed the address verification.
Its clear that Clovers actions have caused S inconvenience, and I can see that the 
partners have had to spend time manually reconciling their accounts to show which 
transactions have been applied incorrectly and trying to resolve the issue with Clover 
directly by phone and email, without success. Ive also seen that despite accepting 
the investigators view in June 2023, Clover didnt proceed with the refund or ensure 
the right charges were applied to Ss account when they obtained the correct address 
verification.
Therefore I think Clover should pay S £500 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused by its actions, refund S the charges from October 2022 onwards that were 
applied incorrectly plus interest at 8% per year simple and amend Ss account held 
with it so that S is charged a qualifying rate when they have verified the address 
correctly in line with the information they were given when signing the agreement 
with Clover. 
I invited S and Clover to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Clover accepted the decision and had nothing 
further to add. 
S didnt say whether or not they accepted the decision, but they said:
The provisional decision failed to mention that S was being overcharged for both 
VISA and Mastercard transactions initially. 
Clover had refunded them the VISA transactions up to May 2023 when they started 
experiencing issues with this card type again.
All Mastercard overcharges from October 2022 hadnt been refunded. They were concerned that Clover wouldnt be able to resolve the issue between 
qualifying and non-qualifying transactions, and as most of their transactions were 
qualifying, Clover should just refund the overcharges for all their payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Ss comments about the timing of the issues experienced with both VISA and 
Mastercard transactions. However, I dont think that has a material impact on the decision as 
Ive recommended that Clover refund S for any transactions that were incorrectly treated as 
non-qualifying. So this encompasses transactions from both card schemes from the time 
that S took out the agreement until the date of the decision. 
I also recognise Ss concerns about Clover being able to identify non-qualifying transactions 
and that it would be simpler for it just to refund all the overcharges. But this isnt fair to 
Clover, nor is it in line with the agreement that S signed. It also wouldnt be reasonable for 
me to make a recommendation for something that S isnt entitled to receive. I think that 
Clover needs to resolve the issue that S is experiencing so that it is also fulfilling its part of 
the agreement, which is the reason I have included this as part of the decision. However, its 
a commercial decision for Clover to make on how it does so.
On the basis that neither party has provided any additional evidence or information, I see no 
reason to reach a different conclusion to my provisional decision. So this final decision 
confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct First Data Europe Limited to do the 
following:
Refund any fees from transactions that were incorrectly treated as non-qualifying
and havent yet been refunded plus interest at 8% per year simple.
Correct Ss account so that it is charged a qualifying rate for transactions which
have received confirmation that an address has been verified.
Pay S £500 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman