DRN-4084835
The complaint
The estate of Mr H complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly refused to meet a 
claim made following Mr Hs death, and that a subsequent offer to meet the claim in part isnt 
fair.
What happened
Im not going to go over all of the information for this complaint as what happened is well 
known to both parties. In summary, in late 2020 Mr H fell at the residential home where he 
lived and damaged his hip. He had treatment in hospital. Some months later he had further 
surgery on the same hip. About a fortnight later he fell from his bed and was again 
hospitalised. Sadly Mr H died a little while later. 
When Mr Hs representatives claimed on a policy Mr H held for his accidental death, Covea 
initially said it wouldnt consider the claim because the policy had lapsed some months 
earlier. It later acknowledged this was a mistake and agreed to consider the claim. It also 
paid Mr Hs representatives £500 to make up for this. 
When it considered the claim Covea said it need not pay anything because Mr Hs initial 
accident wasnt the sole cause of death.
Mr Hs representatives complained but Covea didnt change its stance, so we were asked to 
review the complaint. Whilst we were doing this Covea reconsidered its position and offered 
to pay 20% of the claim. It based the amount of the offer on medical information it had had 
since April 2022.
Mr Hs representatives refused this offer when it was put to them by our investigator.
Overall, our investigator thought Covea had acted fairly and that it need do no more than pay 
the amount it had offered. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I was asked to 
decide this complaint.
I sent my provisional findings to both Mr Hs representatives and to Covea last month. In that 
I said I thought Covea had had enough information to make a partial payment on Mr Hs 
insurance policy in April 2022 but didnt make an offer to Mr Hs representatives until 
October. I thought the amount Covea offered (20% of the amount listed on Mr Hs policy) 
was fair, as it had been based on the medical advice Covea obtained in April. I did think 
though that Covea could have made the offer in April, so I thought it fair for Covea to add 
interest at the statutory rate of 8% to the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have responded to my provisional findings.
Mr Hs representatives say they dont think the amount offered is enough  they think 50% of 
the policy limit is more appropriate. They say theyre disappointed that Mr Hs other 
underlying conditions were factored in so heavily as a contribution to Mr Hs death.
I cant say how much Mr Hs underlying conditions contributed to his untimely death. But I 
still think its reasonable that Covea rely upon the medical opinion that it commissioned when 
considering the claim. That suggested Mr Hs fall had contributed between 10 and 20% to 
the cause of death. As Covea offered 20%, the upper amount, I remain persuaded that this 
is a fair offer in the absence of any other compelling information.
Covea objects to adding interest to the payment. It says it correctly declined the claim as the 
medical opinion it had clearly said the fall wasnt the sole cause of death. So the 
circumstances of Mr Hs death didnt meet the terms and conditions of the policy. It says it 
only reconsidered its position and made the partial offer after it received the coroners report 
issued after an inquest into Mr Hs death had taken place many months later.
That doesnt persuade me to change my provisional findings. I appreciate that the coroner 
clearly stated that the fall was a contributory factor to Mr Hs death. But Covea already knew 
that in April 2022: its own medical report said this. So the coroners report effectively 
confirmed this. I cant accept the premise that an insurer need only meet such a claim  
even if part  without a coroners report. That simply isnt a burden those who have lost 
loved ones should have to suffer when making a claim, when an insurer already has 
sufficient evidence to meet the claim in part. I remain of the opinion that Covea could and 
should have offered the settlement many months before it did. 
Putting things right
To put things right Covea must pay to Mr Hs estate 20% of the amount due under the policy 
plus interest at 8% simple per annum from 30 April 2022 to the date of payment. If Covea 
has to deduct tax from the interest paid as HMRC may require, it must provide a statement 
of the amount deducted to Mr Hs representatives.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to make 
payment to the estate of Mr H as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2023. 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman