DRN-3751109
The complaint
Mr C and Ms L have complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited 
(Red Sands) has declined their claim for the cost of treatment for their pet dog on the 
ground that his condition was pre-existing and therefore excluded by their policy.
References to Red Sands include their agents and administrators.
What happened
Mr C and Ms L acquired a rescue dog from their local council, and Ill refer to him as M. He 
was seven years old when they adopted him and he appeared fit and healthy but the rescue 
centre wasnt able to provide any previous medical history for him but had no concerns 
based on their care of him. 
Mr C and Ms L insured M with Red Sands on 18 October 2021. Their policy provides that it 
doesnt cover pre-existing conditions, defined as:
 Any claim or costs for existing conditions, which means any injury or illness that relates 
to or results from an accident, injury, illness or where [M] showed observable changes to 
his normal healthy state, condition, appearance, bodily functions or behaviour that could 
be observed visually, diagnostically or otherwise before or within 14 days of your policys 
original start date.
On 22 October 2021, so within the policys 14-day exclusion period, Mr C and Ms L took M 
to the vet as he seemed a bit stiff on his back legs after long walks. The vet noted:
 
L stifle thickened slight crepitus does have scar laterally on thigh and O reports surgery 
in the past but not known what  suspect cruciate.  
No specific comment was made about his right hind leg. Anti- inflammatory medication as 
needed was advised.
On 12 November 2021 M was taken back to the vet. His right hind leg was noted to be fine 
but there was a concern about how comfortable he was on his back legs especially the left. 
Referring to Ms left hind leg, the vet noted:
 Line on lateral aspect of leg not likely to be cruciate surgery as would normally approach 
medially, but does look like possible scar - could just be normal feature of coat.
On 10 January 2022 M was taken to the vet again as he was displaying lameness in his right 
hind leg. He was advised rest and to continue with anti- inflammatory medication. On 8 
February 2022, after no improvement on his current medication, the vet advised that M be x-
rayed. 
Mr C and Ms L contacted Red Sands to check whether M would be covered for further 
investigation. They were told that this was something that would be covered as long as his 
condition wasnt pre-existing when they took out the policy. Red Sands explained about 
claim limits. As Mr C and Ms L werent aware of M having any pre-existing conditions, they 
therefore went ahead and approved M having x-rays assuming M would be covered for 
these. They say they werent made aware by Red Sands that if M had in fact got a pre-
existing condition, he wouldnt be covered for it even if they didnt know about it. 
The x-rays showed right side lameness. Ms right stifle showed changes consistent with 
chronic cruciate disease. M was Fine otherwise. 
Mr C and Ms L submitted a claim to Red Sands for the costs of Ms treatment. Red Sands 
declined their claim on the ground that it had been noted on 22 October 2021, within the 14-
day policy exclusion period, that M was suffering from cruciate ligament damage and 
osteoarthritis and had been stiff on his back legs. It stated:
As per the medical notes there is strong evidence to suggest that [M] had a previous 
femur fracture which has caused osteoarthritis changes in that limb. It is also evident from 
these radiographs / medical notes that [M] has suffered with chronic cruciate disease to 
the left hind limb.
 It explained that the policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions, not did it cover bilateral 
conditions, quoting the following from the policy:
Should your pet suffer from a bilateral condition, which refers to any condition affecting 
both sides of the body, such as ears, eyes, elbows, shoulders, knees, hips and cruciate 
ligaments, these disorders are considered as one condition.
In response, Mr C and Ms L provided a letter from Ms treating vet who disagreed with Red 
Sands assessment of Ms clinical history and who expressed the opinion that both the 
clinical and radiographic evidence was more supportive of an acute cruciate injury in Ms 
right hind limb, with the onset of clinical signs occurring after the inception and 'warm-up' 
period of the policy. 
Red Sands reassessed Mr Cs and Ms Ls claim, but concluded that:
As [M] is noted to have suffered from osteoarthritis, cruciate ligament damage (as stated 
previously this is a condition when bilateral is treated as one condition) and been seen to 
be stiff on his hind limbs before the end of his policy warm up period, we do consider 
osteoarthritis and cruciate ligament damage to be pre-existing conditions and as such we 
are unable to cover this claim.
Mr C and Ms L werent happy with the rejection of their claim by Red Sands and brought 
their complaint to this service. Our investigators view was that their complaint should be 
upheld as they had no knowledge of Ms previous medical history, and Ms vet had 
confirmed that on 22 October 2021 Ms right hind limb appeared normal and overt lameness 
on the right hind limb wasnt reported until 9 January 2022. She also didnt consider that Red 
Sands could fairly apply the definition of a Bilateral Condition to treat both legs as one 
condition.
In response to our investigators view, Red Sands made reference to Ms previous veterinary 
history before he was acquired by Mr C and Ms L. It said that this indicated that M suffered 
from cruciate damage and osteoarthritis before the policy start date. It argues that 
osteoarthritis is a progressive, degenerative disease that worsens over time, hence why 
under the terms of Mr C and Ms Ls policy wording, although the left leg was the previous 
concern, the right limb would be excluded also. Cruciate ligament damage affecting one side 
of the body prior to the policy will automatically place an exclusion on the bilateral limb also. As Red Sands doesnt agree with our investigators view, its asked that the matter be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Cs and Ms Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive considered what was recorded by Ms previous vets. The vets notes from 12 August 
and 28 August 2019 refer to Ms left leg limping. A near cruciate rupture was suspected, and 
osteoarthritis was noted. No comment was made about Ms right hind leg.
On 22 October 2021, after Mr C and Ms L acquired M, and within 14 days of taking out their 
policy with Red Sands, Ms new vet noted that Ms left stifle was thickened, and he had a 
scar on the thigh. Subsequent x-rays indicated that this was not cruciate related but was 
connected to a previous fracture. The only comment at that time that included Ms right hind 
leg was that Ms back legs seemed a bit stiff after long walks. This was Mr Cs and Ms Ls 
observation, but they explained that this was a casual comment to the vet as to how anyone 
might feel after a long walk.
It wasnt until 10 January 2022 that any comment was made about Ms right hind leg. This 
led to x-rays being taken which showed that M had chronic cruciate disease in his right stifle.
Red Sands argues that due to the policy term relating to bilateral conditions, a condition 
evident in one leg is treated as also evident in the other.
Ive taken into account what Ms vet has said in response to Red Sands rejection of Mr Cs 
and Ms Ls claim (with my emphasis underlined):
You will note doubts recorded in the clinical record on 12,11.2021 regarding whether 
the previous surgery was for cruciate disease, or for another reason. These suspicions 
were confirmed by the subsequent radiographs, which demonstrated that the surgery 
that [M] has had on that limb was most likely, as you accept, to treat a fracture and not 
to treat cruciate disease. The osteoarthritic changes noted in the stifle joint in that limb 
could just as well be secondary to that surgery, original trauma or some other 
conformational abnormality or degenerative process, as they could be caused by 
cruciate disease.
The radiographs taken on 17.02.2022, which were reviewed at the time by an Advanced 
Practitioner in Small Animal orthopaedics, also support the initial clinical assessment 
that osteoarthritis was the most clinically significant feature of the left stifle, as there was 
NO clear radiographic evidence for cruciate disease in that limb. 
On the other hand, there is clear radiographic evidence supporting a diagnosis of 
cruciate disease in the right hindlimb. There is no evidence, however, to support your 
assertion that this either a chronic condition, or one that pre-dated the inception of the 
policy.
Indeed, when [M] was examined on both the 22.10.2021 and the 12.11.2021, the right 
hindlimb appeared normal (notwithstanding the soft tissue injury noted on 12.11.2021); 
overt lameness on the right hindlimb was not reported until 09.01.2022, well after the 
inception of the policy. On this date, lameness was moderate but there were still no 
clear clinical signs (stifle effusion, cranial draw etc) that suggested a cruciate injury at 
that point; that diagnosis was only established following radiographs on the 17.02.2022.In summary, both the clinical and radiographic evidence is more supportive of an acute 
cruciate injury in right hindlimb, with the onset of clinical signs occurring after the 
inception and 'warm-up' period of the policy.
In summary, in Ms vets professional opinion, the surgery on Ms left hind leg was most 
likely to have been to treat a fracture which led to osteoarthritis. The x-rays taken on 18 
February 2022 did not disclose clear evidence of cruciate disease in Ms left hind leg. There 
were no issues with Ms right hind leg until 9 January 2022. The cruciate disease in this leg 
was only diagnosed on 17 February 2022 and was considered to be acute. There was no 
evidence that it was chronic, or that it pre-dated policy inception.
In the absence of evidence to the contrary, Im drawn to conclude that there is insufficient 
evidence of a connection between the issue with Ms right hind leg for which Mr C and Ms L 
are claiming, and the pre-existing issue with Ms left hind leg.  As the conditions are different, 
I dont consider that it is fair for Red Sands to treat them as bilateral. And as there is no 
evidence of any cruciate issues with Ms right hind leg until January 2022, I dont consider 
that this condition can fairly be determined by Red Sands to be pre-existing.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Cs and Ms Ls complaint. I require Red 
Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited:
(1) to settle Mr Cs and Ms Ls claim subject to the other terms and conditions of their policy. 
If they have already paid to the vet any part of the sum claimed, this should be reimbursed to 
them.
(2) to pay Mr C and Ms L interest on any sum so paid to them by way of reimbursement at 
the simple rate of 8% from the date they made payment to the date that payment is made to 
them. 
If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C and Ms L 
how much its taken off. It should also give them a tax deduction certificate if either of them 
asks for one so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman