DRN-3829117
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB) didnt inform them 
about the early repayment charges (ERC) applicable to their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R contacted an appointed representative of MAB for mortgage advice in 2021. 
MAB initially recommended a two-year fixed interest rate product, but upon further 
discussion this was increased to a five-year fixed interest rate product. 
An updated suitability report and mortgage illustration was provided to Mr and Mrs R in 
September 2021. The mortgage product Mr and Mrs R proceeded with had an applicable 
ERC if more than 10% of the outstanding balance was repaid in any year during the five-
year fixed interest rate period. The applicable ERC rate began at 5% of the amount repaid in 
the first two years, decreasing year on year for the next three years.
Mr and Mrs R decided to sell their property and in July 2022 they contacted MAB concerned 
about the applicable ERC on their mortgage. Mr and Mrs R say that when they asked for a 
five-year fixed interest rate period on their mortgage they werent told this would increase the 
applicable ERC (when compared to the applicable ERC on the two-year fixed interest rate 
product they didnt pursue). Mr and Mrs R say they never wouldve agreed to the mortgage if 
they had been told about this and believe MAB has breached the Mortgage and Home 
Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
MAB didnt uphold the complaint  in summary it said:
It provided Mr and Mrs R with a suitability report, key facts document and mortgage 
illustration document setting out the relevant information  including applicable ERCs 
and what overpayments can be made without incurring a fee. Mr and Mrs R had 
enough time to review the documents before the mortgage completed.
Mr and Mrs R requested the change from a two-year fixed interest rate product to a 
five-year fixed interest rate product. And during this conversation its mortgage 
adviser discussed overpayments and ERCs. 
It thinks the product recommended was suitable as Mr and Mrs R were concerned 
about upcoming potential interest rate rises and wanted the certainty of a longer fixed 
interest rate period. The adviser says Mr and Mrs R told him they intended to stay in 
the property for at least five years.
When Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. They concluded that the ERCs were set out clearly on the mortgage 
documentation sent to Mr and Mrs R which they were directed to read, and that at the time 
of the recommendation the advice was suitable.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree, they said MAB should have explained the ERC would increase 
from 2% in the first year on the two-year fixed rate product to 5% on the five-year fixed 
interest rate product. They say this information wasnt discussed and shouldnt have been 
hidden in documents. Mr R also referenced MCOB 5.4.10  that a firm must explain the 
importance of reading the illustration to the customer.
So, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
Unfortunately, the calls between Mr R, Mrs R, and MAB arent available. Ive 
considered the recollections of Mr R, Mrs R, and the mortgage adviser at MAB, and 
where these are contradictory, Ive placed weight on the documentation from the 
time. 
The suitability report MAB sent to Mr and Mrs R on 30 September 2021 says that Mr 
and Mrs R wanted to extend the fixed interest rate period to five years because they 
anticipated interest rates would increase and they wanted certainty around their 
repayments.
The mortgage adviser at MAB recalled Mr and Mrs R confirming their intention to 
stay in the property for five years. If Mr and Mrs R had repaid the mortgage after the 
initial five-year period, they would not have incurred an ERC. And theres no 
evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs R informed MAB that they may want to sell their 
property sooner than this. So, I dont think this product was unsuitable in the 
circumstances.
The suitability report and the mortgage offer letter ask Mr and Mrs R to review the 
mortgage illustration document, so Im satisfied Mr and Mrs R were made aware that 
it was important to read this. 
Mr and Mrs R appear to have been aware that an ERC applied to their mortgage and 
that it had a five-year fixed interest rate period. But they say they werent told the 
ERC would be higher on the five-year fixed interest rate product than on the two-year 
fixed interest rate product theyd previously reviewed. Theres some dispute about 
whether this was covered in the conversation with MABs mortgage adviser. But as 
the mortgage illustration document sets out clearly the applicable ERC including the 
percentage basis of the rate and example amounts for each year, I think MAB has 
done enough to make Mr and Mrs R aware of the relevant ERC and how it operates.
For these reasons I dont think MAB needs to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman