DRN-3095547
The complaint
Mr U complains about problems he had transferring money from his Nationwide Building 
Society account.
What happened
Mr U was abroad when various Coronavirus restrictions were introduced restricting travel 
which he says meant he wasnt able to return to the UK. He wanted to set up an account to 
buy cryptocurrency whilst still abroad. 
On 4 September 2020, Mr U tried to transfer £6,000 to a cryptocurrency trading firm. He said 
he wanted to invest in a particular cryptocurrency. Because of a number of factors related to 
the transaction, Nationwides fraud detection systems flagged this payment as suspicious 
and blocked it.  Nationwide sent Mr U an email asking him to get in touch. Mr U said he 
didnt as this email didnt contain his postcode and he found this suspicious.  
On 8 September, Mr U called Nationwide as he couldnt access his online banking services. 
Mr U had to call a number of times as the calls kept cutting out. Nationwide told Mr U that 
the payment to the trading firm had left his account. The online block wasnt removed at this 
point as the call ended before this could be done. 
Mr U next got in touch on 19 September to complain about this. He said hed been 
prevented from buying the cryptocurrency he wanted to, and this had significantly increased 
in value meaning hed suffered a loss of investment growth. 
Nationwide said it is UK based and its account is typically for customers who are UK based. 
This meant that operating the account when aboard may be more difficult. It said its terms 
and conditions allowed it to prevent payments being made from accounts, which it considers 
suspicious. It said Mr U had incorrectly been told that the payment had left his account when 
it hadnt. However, Nationwide said had this been as important as Mr U said it was, he would 
likely have got in touch sooner. Nationwide didnt agree it was responsible for the loss in 
growth of the cryptocurrency. But it offered Mr U £100 compensation for the incorrect 
information it had provided. 
Mr U was unhappy with this and referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators reviewed the complaint, but he agreed that Nationwide wasnt responsible for 
the loss Mr U thought he had incurred. Mr U didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to consider and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwides terms and conditions allow it to temporarily block transactions and conduct 
additional security checks if it considers transactions suspicious. Its security processes are, 
of course, confidential. But given that Mr U was abroad, and trying to transfer money to buy 
cryptocurrency, something which is popular with scammers, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Nationwide to want to carry out additional security checks. 
Nationwide sent an email to Mr U on the same day as he attempted to send the payment to 
the cryptocurrency trading firm.  Mr U says he didnt get in touch immediately as there was 
no postcode within that email and he was suspicious of it. However, given that it was sent 
soon after he had tried to make a payment, and his address was registered in a country 
which didnt use postcodes, I think there shouldve been good enough reason for him to 
consider it might be genuine. And even if it was a scam, he couldve called Nationwide on a 
genuine number to confirm that he had tried to make a payment that day. 
It was four days later that Mr U got in touch with Nationwide again. Its clear Mr U was 
having difficulty with the calls as they kept dropping out and he had to keep calling back. But, 
as Nationwide has also explained, this is a UK based account designed for UK based 
customers. So, its always a possibility that there may be problems and it may be harder to 
operate when being abroad for extended periods. I dont think this problem was the fault of 
Nationwide.
Nationwide has confirmed it gave incorrect information about the fact that the funds had left 
Mr Us account. Mr U, in response to our investigator, says this wasnt incorrect information 
and the funds had in fact left his account. And hes provided a screenshot of a statement 
showing the funds leaving his account and then being returned ten days later. However, the 
returned funds are actually labelled as a correction. This suggests to me that the funds didnt 
technically leave the account. They were more likely held in suspense whilst the 
transaction was confirmed  which it wasnt. 
Mr U has said these various delays prevented him from investing and the cryptocurrency he 
wanted to buy significantly increased in price. There is no way to tell whether Mr U wouldve 
bought the currency or not. And in a situation like this, I need to make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. That is what I think is most likely given the information I do have. 
I can see, with hindsight, this particular cryptocurrency would seem very attractive given how 
much it has increased in value. However, like our investigator, Im also not persuaded by Mr 
Us opinion that he definitely wouldve bought the particular cryptocurrency hes mentioned. I 
say this because it was a number of days before Mr U got in touch when the funds were not 
transferred to his trading account. And then a number of days passed again before he called 
back as the funds still hadnt reached his account.  If this had been an urgent matter, given 
the increase in price of the cryptocurrency, I wouldve expected him to act sooner. 
Furthermore, Ive looked into the company he had set his account up with. And I can see it 
doesnt trade the particular currency Mr U says he wanted to buy. Mr U didnt make contact 
for a further five days after being told the funds were showing as back in his account. So, 
based on this, even if I did think Nationwide was responsible for some delays in Mr Us funds 
being released, I wouldnt be asking it to cover lost investment potential for these reasons. 
In summary, Im satisfied that Nationwide was entitled to block the transaction until it was 
satisfied it was genuine. I agree Nationwide mayve caused Mr U some confusion, but I dont 
think it was responsible for all the delays. And Im not persuaded that this confusion caused 
Mr U a loss. I do agree Nationwide gave Mr U incorrect information. But Im satisfied the 
£100 compensation its offered is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I recognise that Mr U feels very strongly about this matter, but my final decision is I dont 
uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman