DRN-3664226
The complaint
Ms C complains Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund her for a payment she didnt make.
What happened
Ms C noticed a transaction on her statement she didnt recognise. The transaction was to a 
retail store on 9 March 2022 for less than £30. Miss C contacted Monzo and queried the 
payment.
Monzo investigated the transaction and said it had been carried out the day before, but was 
showing on the statement as the next day. Monzo also said the payment had been made 
with Ms Cs genuine card and personal identification number (PIN).
Ms C complained to Monzo and told it she couldnt have carried out the transaction as she 
was working that day. Ms C also said she hadnt lost her card or told anyone else her PIN. 
Monzo responded to the complaint and still didnt agree to refund the payment. Monzo 
explained the delayed payment and said because the genuine card and PIN had been used 
it couldnt see how someone else had carried out the transaction.
Monzo also sent Ms C the details of the transaction, which store and what time the genuine 
payment was made as opposed to when it debited Ms Cs account.
Unhappy with this response, Ms C brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt think Ms Cs complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
couldnt see how someone else had been able to make the transaction.
The investigator thought it was fair Monzo had held Ms C liable for the transaction.
Ms C didnt agree and said she knows she didnt carry out the transaction. Ms C also said 
shed used the store a month earlier and contactless wasnt working. Ms C used chip and 
PIN then and thought there could be an error by the store.
Ms C also felt her complaint was dismissed because of the low amount, and thought this 
was unfair as it was her money shed lost. Ms C also wanted to know the date and time of 
the actual payment, to check this was within store opening hours.
Ms C asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general rule its fair for Monzo to hold Ms C liable for a transaction if the evidence 
suggests she authorised it.
Ive looked at the technical evidence Monzo has provided and Im satisfied the transaction in 
dispute was carried out using Ms Cs genuine card and PIN. Im also satisfied it was carried 
out on 8 March 2022, but not processed until 9 March 2022.
The transaction was carried out on a weekday and within the stores opening hours. Monzo 
gave Ms C the details of the transaction in its final response.
Ms C says she still had the card and didnt share her PIN with anyone else. Like the 
investigator, I cant see how someone else could have carried out this transaction.
The transaction is for less than £30, but Ms C had significantly more than this in her account 
at the time. It seems unlikely a random third party would obtain Ms Cs card and PIN, carry 
out a small transaction, then return the card to her.
On balance, I think the most likely explanation is Ms C authorised this payment.
Ive considered what Ms C has said about her not visiting that particular store often and 
being at work at the time. But I cant see any other explanation than she authorised the 
payment or allowed someone else to. In either event, its fair for Monzo to hold Ms C liable.
Ms C says the store could have made a mistake following her earlier visit. Whilst possible, I 
dont think this is likely as Ms Cs genuine card was used. Had the payment been keyed in 
by the retailer, Monzos technical evidence would show this.
Ms C says the fact the payment was for a low amount means Monzo didnt investigate 
properly. I dont think this is the case, Monzo has provided evidence to show how the 
payment was made, and this evidence would be the same for any amount of payment.
If the payment had been for a larger amount, and Monzo provided the same evidence, Id 
still come to the same conclusions. I dont believe the amount of the transaction is relevant 
to the outcome of Ms Cs complaint or Monzos investigation into it.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman