DRN-3757944
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs L complain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has unfairly 
declined a claim under their legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
Any reference to Mr K, Mrs L, or RSA includes respective agents and representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In January 2021, following a neighbour dispute, Mr K and Mrs L made an LEI claim.
Around a week after RSA received the submission, Mr K and Mrs L spoke to RSA 
and said they had appointed their own solicitor (Company A). RSA says it explained 
that prior to court proceedings becoming necessary RSA would only cover costs of 
its own panel solicitors. 
RSA said it followed up in an email to say if Mr K and Mrs L proceeded with 
Company A, they should let RSA know if proceedings were necessary, allowing 
plenty of time for it to assess the legal assessment on the prospects of success and 
proportionality with an outline of its likely timescales.
Mr K and Mrs L confirmed they would be proceeding with Company A the next day, 
whod said proceedings would need to be issued.
RSA said it requested an off-panel assessment the same day which was received a 
week later. This firm (Company B) said the claim did not have reasonable prospects 
of success based on the available evidence. But it said any further submitted 
evidence would be considered, or if Mr K and Mrs L could obtain a solicitors legal 
assessment (at their own cost) which stated the case did have reasonable prospects 
RSA would obtain a barristers opinion to determine if cover is provided. 
Mr K and Mrs L reached out to Company B directly, but it wouldnt deal with them. 
Following some back and forth, Mr K and Mrs L explained they felt the assessment 
was inaccurate. They raised concerns about RSAs agent and provided further 
information. 
RSA reviewed this, and said it could proceed with the claim, sending terms to 
Company A, outlining it would offer a maximum hourly rate of £150. Mr K and Mrs L, 
and Company A responded, saying its hourly rate was £255.
RSA reviewed this and offered £217 per hour, saying this was in line with county 
court guidelines for the area. Company A then asked for £230 which RSA declined.
Mr K and Mrs L complained, and RSA said it would meet Company A in the middle, 
offering £223.50 to try to resolve the matter. Company A agreed to this.
In May 2021, Company A wrote to RSA to say the matter had been settled out of 
court, and that Mr K and Mrs L had incurred costs prior to RSA agreeing cover. RSA 
declined to cover costs incurred prior to 4 March 2021  the date it had authorised 
Company As costs. It submitted its costs from April 2021 and RSA paid these.
Mr K and Mrs L say Company A were owed for work completed between December 
2020 and February 2021 that RSA should pay, particularly as it had initially declined 
the claim.
So, they brought their complaint to this Service, also raising concerns about the 
handling of the claim and RSAs application of terms. 
RSA said Company B had initially assessed the claim fairly in light of the available 
evidence, and its advice for Mr K and Mrs L to obtain a specialists report was the 
factor that had made the difference to the cases prospects of success. And it said 
that its policy terms were fair.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said RSA had acted in a timely 
manner, and its decision to offer above county court rates was reasonable. And that 
Mr K and Mrs Ls decision to use Company As services prior to acceptance or 
agreement from RSA was their own, meaning they were liable for costs incurred.
Mr K and Mrs L disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
RSA has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly.
In this case, Mr K and Mrs Ls claim was assessed within a short period of time after 
the claim was submitted. It was also reassessed after being provided with new 
information within a reasonable period.
Following a back and forth between Company A and RSA, RSA agreed to cover 
costs at an hourly rate of £223.50. This was above the county court rates that wed 
expect it to consider. And Im satisfied this was a fair and reasonable decision for 
RSA to make.
Policies of this nature require claims to have reasonable prospects of success  
typically defined as at least 51% and which would recover losses or damages. This 
means if Mr K and Mrs Ls claim was shown to have at least 51% or greater 
prospects of success and would recover their losses or damages then the claim 
should be covered (subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy).
Mr K and Mrs L have said Company Bs initial assessment that said the case did not 
have reasonable prospects was inaccurate. As our Investigator has highlighted, this 
Service is not able to assess Company Bs advice.
In determining whether the claim has reasonable prospects, RSA relied on the 
opinion of Company Bs solicitor which was shared with Mr K and Mrs L. RSA is 
entitled to rely on the legal advice it is provided with  unless that advice is obviously 
wrong. The claim was reviewed by a qualified individual with suitable experience in 
the relevant area of law. And Company Bs advice was properly written and reasoned 
 so Im satisfied it was fair for RSA to rely on this advice.
RSA was clear in outlining Mr K and Mrs Ls next steps if they disagreed with this 
opinion, telling them they could either provide additional information or a conflicting 
legal assessment from a solicitor. Which they did, and which subsequently led to 
Company B agreeing the case did have reasonable prospects. So, Im satisfied this was reasonable for RSA to rely on.
Mr K and Mrs Ls policy is clear that it will only cover the costs of its own panel 
solicitors prior to court proceedings becoming necessary. And Im satisfied RSA 
communicated this to Mr K and Mrs L. They chose to use Company A in the 
knowledge of this, and Im satisfied RSAs declination of the costs between 
December 2020 and February 2021 was fair as a result.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman