DRN-4080521
The complaint
Mr M complains Aviva Insurance Limited avoided his motor insurance policy (treated it like it 
never existed) and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr M took out a motor insurance policy with Aviva in June 2022. When his motorbike was 
stolen in September 2022, he tried to make a claim.
After investigating the claim, Aviva said Mr M had deliberately misrepresented the Kept 
Overnight address for where the motorbike was to be stored when taking out the policy on 
the phone. Aviva considered this a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation which 
entitled it to avoid his policy and decline his claim. This also allowed it to keep his premium. 
Mr M said, in error, the incorrect postcode was submitted by him when he took out a policy 
over 3 years ago and since then it has auto renewed. He said this error appeared on page 5 
of the insurance document and the main details on page 1 were correct. However, last year 
he changed his motorbike and updated the insurance with the new details. And, at no point, 
has he been notified of the potential error by Aviva.
As Aviva didnt change its view, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. He doesnt think 
the way Aviva has acted is fair. To put things right, he says the insurer should clear the 
outstanding finance/pay the value of his motorbike, reinstate his no claims, and clear his 
record of the cancellation. 
The Investigator looked into matters but didnt think it should be upheld. They agreed there 
had been a qualifying misrepresentation, so, Aviva was entitled to take the steps it had.
Mr M doesnt agree with this. He feels the call recording shows he took reasonable care to 
be explicitly clear the motorbike would be kept in London so its a careless error. He feels 
Aviva accepted the premium knowing he wouldnt keep it at the stated overnight address 
and that itd never pay any claims made by him. He says other insurers wouldve spotted the 
distance between the two addresses and wouldnt have processed the policy and taken 
payment.
The matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I must tell Mr M I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. 
So, I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If the consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aviva says Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered questions about where his motorbike would be kept overnight and took out an 
insurance policy based on an address he didnt intend to use to store his motorbike. Im 
satisfied Avivas position here is both fair and reasonable. I say this because Ive listened to 
what Mr M said when the policy was taken out and include the below extract discussing the 
bikes location.
Call handler:Where will the bike be kept overnight?
Mr M: [sounds like] on the street
 
Call handler:On the street?
Mr M:Off the street
Call handler:Sorry is that in a garage, a road, a driveway?
Mr M: Driveway, front garden basically
Call handler:At your postcode [Mr Ms home address in London]?
Mr M:Yes
Other details of the motorbike and Mr M are discussed. Aviva then explained it wouldnt 
provide cover, likely due to the value of the motorbike and fact it wont be garaged. Mr M 
says he had a quote previously for a higher value motorbike through Aviva. The call handler 
confirms this is because it was kept in a garage. Mr M then says he can keep it in a secure 
garage at work (a second address). So, Aviva quoted for the second address  just under 
£3,400  but Mr M was unhappy to pay this. He asked why the insurance was much cheaper 
for his motorbike previously and the call handler said this could be because he kept it at a 
different address (a third address). The conversation continues as extracted below.
Mr M:How can I get it [the motorbike] up to that area then? Can I keep it in 
that area, the same area, is that possible?
Call handler:I can have a look. Its just the postcode you gave me, I dont know 
where that is so... whats the postcode please, wheres the 
Mr M: [Gives a third postcode and the one used previously] - that might be 
better. 
They continue to discuss the structure the motorbike will be kept in. The call handler 
confirms for the bike to be kept at that address, Aviva is quoting you £721.84 and for a slightly lower annual mileage but the same garaging address at [the third postcode], this 
was reduced further. This is the quote Mr M accepted. However, Mr M didnt keep his 
motorbike in the location he said he would when taking out the insurance policy. 
Having listened to this call, Im satisfied Mr M asked Aviva to use a previous address as his 
kept overnight address with the intention of obtaining a quote and reducing the cost of it. As 
far as he stated on the phone  this was based on him keeping the motorbike in a garage at 
the third address. However, I havent seen any evidence Mr M intended to do this. Im 
satisfied its more likely he intended to store the motorbike at his home address in London - 
a location Aviva wasnt willing to insure due to the risk it presented. This is also the address 
it was later stolen from. 
Aviva made it clear in the call how important it is to answer the questions correctly. Ive also 
seen this was repeated on the Statement of Insurance. 
Given Aviva had already told Mr M it wouldnt give him a quote for his home address in 
London, Im satisfied it would never have offered cover if itd been given the correct 
information about where Mr Ms motorbike would be kept. So, Im satisfied Mr Ms 
representation was a qualifying one.
Aviva considers Mr Ms representation was deliberate or reckless. In light of the information 
set out above, I see no reason to interfere with this. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ms representation should be treated as a deliberate or reckless 
qualifying misrepresentation, Ive looked at the actions Aviva can take in accordance with 
CIDRA. And I agree Aviva was entitled to avoid Mr Ms policy in accordance with CIDRA 
from the inception of the policy. As this means - in effect - his policy never existed, Aviva 
doesnt have to deal with Mr Ms claim following the theft of his motorbike. And it can keep 
the premiums paid.
I note Mr M refers to what he thinks other insurers wouldve done in this situation. But my 
role is to look at the individual circumstances of what happened in this case. Having done 
so, Im satisfied the above is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. 
Im aware Mr M says Aviva is to blame as this was clearly a mistake on his part which Aviva 
knew. I dont see things the same way. Mr M was obliged to provide accurate information in 
his answers, taking care not to make a misrepresentation. Ive already found Mr M failed to 
do this and so Aviva isnt responsible for the position Mr M now finds himself.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman