DRN-3923820
The complaint
Mr C complains that IG Markets Limited (IG) took too long to set up his ISA and too long to 
transfer his ISA out.
What happened
On 9 January 2021 an ISA application for Mr C was posted to IG. Included with it was a 
request to transfer an existing cash ISA into the new ISA. Mr C says his existing cash ISA 
was available for transfer from 24 January. IG says it sent the forms to Mr Cs existing ISA 
provider on 19 January and they arrived there on 22 January according to Mr C.
On 28 January 2021 Mr Cs existing ISA provider wrote to IG asking for bank details so it 
could send the ISA cash. The letter said the request was being made because IG was not 
accepting cheques and because IG had not published its payment details on a commonly 
used industry transfer database. The letter said the provider had spoken to IG on the phone 
and that IG had not been able to put the provider through to the relevant department.
On 4 February 2021 IG responded to Mr C, telling him it hadnt heard from his ISA provider. 
He replied on 4 February giving IG email and phone details for the provider and expressing 
dissatisfaction at IG not having given the ISA provider details of where to send the funds  
and also at IG handling transfer contacts by post only. On 5 February the ISA provider sent 
IG a second letter asking for the bank details.
On 5 February 2021 Mr C made a formal complaint covering the progress of the transfer. On 
9 February IG replied. It ignored the formal complaint but said it had sent its transfer request 
by post as it hadnt had an email address. It also said its letter had contained details of how 
to pay funds to it electronically. On 10 February IG sent Mr C a second email saying it had 
contacted his ISA provider by post because it didnt have an email address and saying the 
letter had contained instructions for electronic payments. I dont know whether this email was 
referring back to the original instruction IG has said it sent on 19 January 2021 or whether it 
was saying it had posted a second instruction (in which case Ive not seen a copy).
Mr Cs funds arrived at IG from the ISA provider on 17 February 2021. IG says it got these 
having provided no payment details beyond those in its original request. Mr C has said the 
transfer took 39 days from his instruction and 24 days from the ISA maturity.
On 8 April 2021 IG replied to Mr Cs complaint. It didnt think it had done anything wrong as 
far as its handling of the ISA transfer was concerned  and it gave him the option to refer the 
dispute to us. 
IG did at that time offer Mr C £200 for failings relating to a separate joint application (also 
sent in on 9 January) and for issues Mr C experienced trying to contact IG by phone and its 
online chat service in relation to all his applications. IG accepted that contacting it was 
difficult due it says to very high demand for its service at the time.
On 22 April 2021 Mr C replied to IG, continuing to ask for redress for delay in his ISA 
transfer. He said IG hadnt explained why it hadnt given transfer details on the industry 
transfer database, hadnt used the providers available contact details, hadnt accepted a 
cheque for him as it had for his wife, hadnt been contactable by phone, hadnt replied 
expediently by email and had taken 39 days overall.
IG has said it was coping with very high demand for its service during the period.
Mr C contacted us with a report on all this on 24 June 2021.
On 8 August 2021 Mr C told IG he had contacted another provider and initiated a transfer 
out of his ISA account  after IG told Mr C it was closing his accounts. Mr C has told us this 
transfer process started on 6 August. On 31 August Mr C told IG he was still waiting for the 
cash to appear on his new accounts.
IG replied on 19 October 2021. It offered £50 because Mr Cs account cash of about £50 
hadnt been sent properly so it needed to be resent. It also said transfers can take three to 
five weeks as a minimum.
Our investigator considered Mr Cs complaint and thought, in brief summary:
The ISA transfer in was requested on 9 January 2021 but couldnt start until after a 
maturity date of 24 January had passed on the existing account. IG didnt respond to the 
existing providers request for bank details, but this didnt hold things up as the provider 
was able to carry out the transfer without IG having provided these details. For the later 
transfer out, an error by IG meant £47 was returned to IG two weeks after the shares 
had settled, with the transfer not completing as a result until two weeks after that. IG had 
offered redress for this which was fair. Weighing IGs shortcomings against what it had 
offered overall, IG didnt need to offer more.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators view and made a number of further points. These 
included, in brief summary:
Stockbrokers have a duty to act swiftly on instructions. This is the very least he was 
entitled to expect from IG given its duty of care and the charges it makes. The very 
nature of stock market trading is that it is of utmost importance that time is of the 
essence in every transaction.
Weight should be given to how a business should work rather than how businesses 
currently work and the shabby standards currently adopted by profits driven companies.
A similar transfer - of a cash ISA - was dealt with much more quickly by another firm, 
taking just 9 days (and Mr C gave us details of this).
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally it was passed to me for a decision. I wrote 
to the parties on 10 February 2023 explaining my provisional conclusions were broadly 
similar to those of our investigator. I thought IG did fall short in certain respects  and it had 
accepted this at least in part. But I thought the modest offers IG had made meant it had done 
enough already in respect of the transactions on Mr Cs ISA. I said £100 of what IG had 
offered Mr C appeared to be attributable to the issues raised in this ISA complaint.
IG didnt have anything more to add. Mr C rejected my provisional outcome. His points 
included, in brief summary: 
My provisional outcome failed to enforce any measures to make IG raise its standards to 
what one would reasonably expect from a global financial institution. It allows IG to get 
away with only paying a small fine for carrying out work to an inappropriate standard, rather than upholding correct business standards. I was influenced in this by our service 
not meeting its own standards, meaning I cant criticise IG. He was justified in expecting 
IG to provide a standard of service expressly required from a professional regulated 
company entrusted with pensioners hard-earned savings.
Id considered the complaint in isolation without regard to the other errors and poor 
service he and his wife had experienced. The redress wasnt adequate for the hours of 
work and distress required to make IG acknowledge its many shortcomings. I was lenient 
towards IG, lacked regard for his reasonable expectations and didnt provide adequate 
protection for a customer paying for a financial service and entrusting IG with joint assets 
of around £126,000. 
Before trading apps, clients contacted brokers in person or by phone and trades took 
place almost immediately. Stock market prices change in milliseconds, so accuracy and 
speed are absolutely necessary to protect clients finances and fulfil a stockbrokers duty 
of care to its clients. Unnecessary delays in expediting client instructions are tantamount 
to negligence. My provisional outcome appears to completely ignore the duty of care IG 
owed him while it was entrusted with large sums of his money and appears to say it is 
acceptable for IG to choose to give a sub-standard service despite its high charges. Id 
fully supported IG in its total lack of regard for his financial or mental well-being. He on 
the other hand had to respond to and make payment to IG promptly with no leeway.
IG was under a moral obligation to prioritise the transfer out, having instructed him to 
move his accounts out. Where evidence exists that IG gave wrong information or failed 
promises, it is unfair to ignore or excuse the inadequacies of IGs poor staff performance.  
It appears clients have to wait an undefined and protracted period for payments, despite 
payments having become faster in banking, but must pay immediately to protect the 
position of the broker. This totally unequitable situation allows large firms to abuse their 
position and profit from the extended retention of client monies, understaffing, poorly 
trained and under supervised staff and the failure of governing bodies to adequately 
police and penalise them.  
It seems in the 21st century it is unreasonable for members of the public to expect 
businesses to perform well and provide good and efficient service, even when the 
service is paid for. Sadly, financial institutions have very much lower standards of 
governance and enforcement than that of yesteryears. 
Many institutions are currently performing disgracefully but that isnt the standard by 
which IG should be judged. A few businesses still perform well and he brought to my 
attention one that performed far better when handling the transfer of ISA monies. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint for broadly the same reasons as I 
have already outlined to the parties. Ive summarised these below. 
Id mention that the purpose of the redress I award is to compensate for detriment suffered 
by Mr C in this particular case. It is not designed to act as a deterrent or punishment for IG.
Also in reaching my outcome here I dont overlook that Mr C and his wife raised other issues 
or complaints with IG and that some of these were justified or accepted by IG to be justified. My decision here and this complaint relates to Mr Cs concerns insofar as they relate to his 
ISA transfers and the detriment suffered by him in connection with those specifically. But I 
am mindful of the overall position, which provides context. 
Government guidelines suggest transfers like that of Mr Cs cash ISA to IGs stocks and 
shares ISA should take no longer than 30 days. Mr Cs transfer was completed within that 
time if counted from either when the existing provider received IGs request for the transfer 
or from when the existing ISA matured.
That said, I bear in mind that unreasonable delays should be avoided in any event  and so 
finishing things within 30 days does not in itself mean the transfer was timely or without 
undue delay.
I also bear in mind that it was only cash being transferred, so the transfer was simpler than 
others that one would also expect to be completed within 30 days. Also it does appear that 
the transfer might have been completed a little sooner had IG been easier to contact or had 
replied sooner or using a quicker method.
I say this bearing in mind the existing ISA provider tried to speak to IG in late January 2021 
but couldnt be put through to the right area of IG. So confusion about how or where to make 
the payment could have been resolved then if IG had been more accessible. I presume the 
providers query about payment methods was sent in light of what it was told by IG when it 
spoke to IG on the phone. It seems IG responded two weeks later - assuming it did send a 
second transfer request at that time.
In my view it would be reasonable to have expected IG to chase up its transfer request at 
some point after 2 February, given that by then two weeks had passed since its request. 
Mr Cs contact on 4 February is another reason why it is reasonable to have expected IG to 
look to chase things up at that point, but this didnt happen until the following week.
So in my view IG was partly responsible for a short delay at that point. I say partly because 
from what IG has told us it had already sent all that the provider needed and so the provider 
could have sent funds without initiating this further exchange.
The short delay appears to have delayed the transfer by something like a week, compared to 
if IG had got in touch with the provider straightaway on 2 or 4 February  for example using 
the phone details Mr C had provided. Id understand if IG was unwilling to send details by 
email until it had carried out its own checks to ensure it was an appropriate email address.
So IG contributed to a short delay of something like a week. IG has also accepted failings in 
how responsive or easy to contact it was during this period  and offered Mr C redress for 
this reason.
Turning to the transfer out I see that there was an administrative error that led to a small 
cash sum being returned to IG, and it apologised and offered redress for this. This seems to 
me to have been a reasonable response by IG. 
In light of all Ive said above, Ive decided IG should compensate Mr C for the inconvenience 
or frustration he suffered due to the short delay and the administrative error Ive identified 
above. 
Also, in determining redress I take into account that during the period IG was not as easy for 
Mr C to make contact with as it ought to have been. 
So I uphold Mr Cs complaint on this basis and to this extent.Putting things right
IG Markets Limited should pay Mr C £100 for the inconvenience caused by the failings Ive 
identified in the transactions Ive considered above. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint for the reasons Ive set out above. IG Markets Limited should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman