DRN-3883534
The complaint
Mr B complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, trading as Chase, is unable or unwilling to 
confirm whether ten hypothetical transactions he has listed would be identified by it as being 
business transactions, rather than personal ones. He would like clarity on his questions, and 
for Chases staff to be better trained.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr B initiated a transaction involving his Chase personal account. Chases 
system raised a flag about the transaction, and Mr B had to speak to a member of staff. 
That member of staff allowed the transaction to go through, but described it as a business 
transaction, and reminded Mr B that his account wasnt meant to be used for business 
purposes.
Chase accepts that its staff member wasnt right in describing the transaction in question 
as a business one. But Mr B was then concerned about future transactions and sent 
Chase a list of ten hypothetical ones to ask it whether it would categorise each of them as 
a business transaction or not, and therefore potentially prohibit how he uses his money.
Chase wrote to Mr B on 11 April 2022 to explain that it wasnt able to give a detailed 
breakdown of what might be classed as a business transaction, and that it would depend 
on the circumstances of each one.
Mr B was unhappy with this uncertainty, and brought his complaint to this service. One of 
our adjudicators looked at everything and thought that Chases response wasnt 
unreasonable. So she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr B doesnt accept that and has asked an Ombudsman to look at his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that Chase has acted unfairly or unreasonably, so am not 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I need to explain my role. Statutorily, my role is to identify whether a business has 
made a mistake, and if so, what loss that mistake has caused a consumer. I then have the 
power to direct a business to put things right for that consumer. I cannot consider 
hypothetical situations, and I cannot direct businesses in respect of staff training needs.
The initial transaction, queried but allowed by Chase, went through and Mr B suffered no 
loss. So there is nothing for me to consider in respect of that.
I can understand why Mr B would like to have more certainty about the situations in which a 
transaction might be flagged as potentially business related. He has concerns that Chase 
may try to prohibit any given transaction, on that basis. However, I can also understand why 
Chase may be unwilling or unable to give him that certainty. Firstly, the explanation as to 
how and why any transaction might be flagged for review by any banks systems is a 
sensitive one, intrinsically linked with security measures. So I dont think its unreasonable 
of Chase not to discuss this aspect any further.
Secondly, I can see why Chase says its difficult for it to say whether the ten hypothetical 
transactions listed by Mr B would ultimately be categorised by it as business related, and 
therefore potentially of concern to it in the context of this personal account. Mr B says it is 
unreasonable for Chase to say that the acceptability of these transactions would be 
determined on their full facts, but I disagree. On the contrary, I would expect a business to 
consider the full and individual facts of any situation when applying its terms and conditions 
to that situation.
Turning to the terms and conditions, I can see that on the first page the following is set out:
Whats this account for?
It's for your personal use only. For example, you must not use these accounts for a 
business or to hold money for someone else.
This is a fairly standard clause to find within the terms and conditions of a personal bank 
account, designed to stop personal accounts being used as de facto business accounts. It 
does not prohibit specific types of transaction. Isolated transactions such as those listed by 
Mr B may or may not amount (solely or in aggregate) to an account being used for a 
business and therefore raising concerns on Chases part about account conduct. That 
could depend on many variables.
Therefore, I find no evidence of mistakes or unreasonable or unfair actions by Chase in its 
response to Mr B, and so dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Chase doesnt need to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman