DRN-1917375
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited has 
unreasonably failed to pay his claim under his pet policy.
What happened
Mr Gs dog needed a cruciate ligament repair operation on her right leg in August 2019. He 
made a claim to Red Sands who said because his dog had her left cruciate ligament 
repaired in 2018, this meant his claim wasnt payable.
It said that because his policy is time limited and plus his policy has a bilateral condition 
term, this meant the costs for operating on his dogs right cruciate ligament wasnt covered 
by his policy. It also said the issues with his dogs left cruciate ligament started before Mr G 
bought his policy which also meant it was a pre-existing condition, which was anyway 
excluded.
Mr G didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint. Ultimately the investigator didnt 
think Red Sands has done anything wrong. Mr G disagreed so his complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Mr G bought a time limited pet policy from Red Sands. He chose the Basic Plus cover. This 
means his policy provides cover for 365 days from when the first clinical signs are noted of 
any condition. Once those 365 days expire (assuming the policy was renewed) cover for that 
condition ceases. And when the policy is renewed an exclusion for that condition claimed is 
imposed once the 365 days has expired. 
It also contains a bilateral condition limitation which means if Mr Gs dog had treatment for 
one cruciate ligament rupture, and if the other cruciate ligament ruptures, its treated as the 
same condition. Therefore, the policy limits of cover apply to both instances which in turn 
then limits the cover available for the second instance of the same issue but in a different 
leg. The bilateral condition applies to anything the insured pet has two of.
 
Mr Gs chosen level of cover Basic Plus permits an annual condition limit of £1,000 which 
means he only has cover for vet fees up to £1,000 for any condition per policy year. And 
further should Mr Gs dog suffer more than one illness or injury in a year, the maximum 
cover is only £4,000 in any one policy year.
Pet policies are sold on an unadvised basis which means Red Sands have no duty to 
advise a consumer whether this policy would suit their needs. Red Sands sole duty is to 
explain its terms and conditions clearly and then it is up to the consumer to make their own 
choice. I consider Red Sands explanation of its terms and limitations in the policy summary 
policy documents and renewal information to be adequate. 
 
Mr G bought his policy through an aggregator website for his policy to start on 18 July 2017. 
So effectively he chose this policy from any of the others also listed. There appears to be 
some confusion in the vet history for his dog as to whether she was having issues with her 
left cruciate ligament for a year or for a month before her surgery. She had her left cruciate 
ligament repaired in early 2018 and Mr G didnt make a claim for it under this policy. If the 
problem with her left leg had been ongoing for a year (which I dont consider is correct given 
Mr Gs explanation) then those problems with her cruciate ligaments would have been 
excluded as they began well before the policy started.  I consider based on what Mr G said 
its more likely his dogs problem with her left leg began a month or so before she had 
surgery and the vet notes simply contained an error, given all the other vet notes at this time 
bar one talk of the issue being recent and not ongoing for a year.  This would mean her left 
cruciate ligament rupture occurred when the policy was properly in force. 
 
However unfortunately for Mr G, this actually doesnt really matter.  That is because theres 
no dispute that his dog had an operation repairing her left cruciate ligament in early 2018. 
And theres no dispute Mr G didnt make a claim for these vet costs. From the vet history his 
dogs left cruciate ligament investigation started on 23 January 2018 culminating in a repair 
operation on 7 February 2018. Therefore, given the bilateral condition limitation, cover for 
cruciate ligaments ceased 365 days after it first was noticed in her left leg. Mr Gs dog didnt 
have her right leg issues until April 2019, so that was well outside the 365-day cover limit in 
any event. 
Mr G is of the view this is very unfair. Neither he or vet his is of the view either cruciate 
ligament injury was related. But again, this doesnt matter because of the bi-lateral condition 
limitation. In any event the vet notes do say at the time of the surgery to the left cruciate 
ligament to watch and control weight and possible CCLR Right, which does point to a 
possible linkage between both legs. Red Sands also said the following to us: 
Unlike acute Cruciate Rupture in humans, trauma accounts for the minority of Cranial 
Cruciate Ligament ruptures in dogs. Chronic Cruciate disease accounts for the majority of 
Cruciate Ligament ruptures and it's recognised as a multifactorial, inflammatory condition. 
The weakened Cruciate Ligaments slowly fray, eventually becoming weak enough to rupture 
during routine exercise and activity. Usually no specific traumatic event is noted as the 
cause of the Cruciate Ligament rupture. Cruciate disease typically progresses slowly over a 
long period of time and the symptoms leading up to the rupture can be subtle or absent. 
Although dogs are acutely lame, and in pain, after rupture has occurred the degenerative 
phase of this disease is more typically associated with intermittent mild Lameness and
asymptomatic periods. Whilst a period of time may pass between the initial onset of any 
Lameness and the diagnosis of a Cruciate Ligament rupture, this is typical for the 
degenerative period before the Cruciate Ligament ultimately ruptures.
Mr G also said all this isnt treating customers fairly as the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority requires Red Sands to do. However once Red Sands treat all its customers with 
the same level of cover and the same sort of circumstances the same, that is treating its 
customers fairly. Red Sands has shown is its underwriting guide which clearly details as 
follows: Excludes cover on all claims with respect to Both Stifles with effect from 'Date'. So 
that means another policyholder in these circumstances would have the same exclusion 
applied. That is treating its customers fairly, according to the appropriate regulations.
So, there is nothing to show me what Red Sands has done wrong. Its followed its own policy 
conditions and underwriting guide in considering Mr Gs claim and sadly that means his 
claim isnt covered under his policy.My final decision
So, whilst I do appreciate Mr G will be disappointed, its my final decision that I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman