DRN-3410469
The complaint
Mr K complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services terminated his agreement unfairly.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr K was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS. The agreement was for 48 months with monthly payments of £703.91, followed 
by a final payment of £25,578.75.
Mr K has said that his agreement was terminated unfairly, which has negatively impacted his 
credit file. He said he changed his direct debit details and kept getting letters from VWFS 
sating that hed missed payments.
In October 2021 VWFS issued a default notice and in January 2022 it terminated the 
agreement. 
Mr K complained to VWFS. In response, VWFS said that the agreement had been correctly 
terminated and that the default on his credit file reflected the factual position.
Mr K wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. Hes since settled the 
agreement but wants the adverse information removed from his credit file and compensation 
for the time hes spent trying to resolve things.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that whilst he agreed that VWFS had 
contributed to the difficulties Mr K had in making payment, the thought VWFS had addressed 
the error and paid compensation for this. The investigator said that VWFS had advised Mr K 
that he needed to arrange a repayment plan for the arrears and had warned Mr K that his 
agreement would be terminated if he didnt do so. The investigator concluded that VWFS 
hadnt treated Mr K unfairly.
Mr K didnt agree. He felt that VWFS was at fault for not collecting his payments. He said he 
was told that the collections team would call him to arrange a repayment plan but he didnt 
hear from them until the end of December 2021, at which time he was experiencing some 
personal issues. Mr K said he was unhappy that VWFS had caused issues with his 
payments for months but went on to terminate his agreement within a few weeks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Ks payment history on the account. This shows that he missed a payment 
in June 2021. Following this, Mr K changed his direct debit details.
The new direct debit details werent correctly set up, which meant that payments didnt reach 
VWFS. Mr K made two manual payments between June 2021 and September 2021, but two 
payments remained outstanding and the account remained in arrears.
VWFS wrote to Mr K in September 2021 advising him that the account was in arrears. A 
notice of default was sent in October 2021.
I can see that Mr K contacted VWFS to dispute the arrears. VWFS upheld Mr Ks complaint 
and said the arrears position had been caused by an administration error. Mr K received 
compensation for the error. I can see that VWFS advised Mr K at the time his complaint was 
resolved that his arrears were £1,537.14 and that he would need to discuss these with the 
collections team to arrange a repayment team.
I can see that the collections team called Mr K on 29 December 2021, but Mr K wasnt able 
to talk so he was asked to call back by 4 January 2022. I cant see that Mr K called back. 
VWFS emailed Mr K on 6 January 2022 asking him to make payment by 10 January 2022 
otherwise the agreement would be terminated. I cant see that Mr K responded or made a 
payment. VWFS terminated the agreement on 11 January 2022.
Based on what Ive seen, it seems likely that VWFS was responsible for an administrative 
error which meant that Mr Ks direct debit payments between June and September 2021 
werent taken. I think Mr K would have been aware that there was an issue with his 
payments, because he made some manual payments during this period. I appreciate that Mr 
K was frustrated about the difficulties he was experiencing with making direct debit 
payments. However, Im satisfied that VWFS addressed the issue in December 2021 and at 
the same time advised Mr KL that he was responsible for making payments under the 
agreement, as well as repaying the arrears which had accrued.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that VWFS took reasonable steps to advise Mr K that 
the agreement was in arrears. Im also satisfied that VWFS treated Mr K fairly by giving him 
the opportunity to arrange a repayment plan.
Mr K has said that VWFS terminated the agreement unfairly. I dont think that VWFS acted 
unfairly, because it had advised Mr K of the arrears and had given him a reasonable 
timescale to agree a repayment plan. 
Mr K has said that there were circumstances which impacted on his ability to contact VWFS 
in December 2021 and January 2022. Ive taken what Mr K has said into account, but I still 
think he could have contacted VWFS to agree a repayment plan during this time. 
For the reasons Ive given, Im not persuaded that VWFS unfairly terminated the agreement. 
I wont be asking VWFS to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman