DRN-3293916
The complaint
Miss B and Mr W complain U K Insurance Limited (trading as Privilege) declined their 
Buildings Insurance claim. 
All references to Privilege also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Insurance policies will not always cover every eventuality and when making a claim a 
customer would need to show an insured event has occurred.
Privilege have declined the claim as it didnt feel an insured event had occurred. It 
said it didnt believe the damage to the roof shown in photos provided by Miss B and 
Mr W was consistent with damage caused by a storm.
Miss B and Mr W have disputed the claim they made was specifically for storm 
damage. 
But Ive listened to the initial call made by Mr W when the claim was logged, Privilege 
asked a series of questions and it was agreed in the call a storm claim would be 
logged. So, I dont think Privilege acted unreasonably in logging the claim for storm 
damage.
Miss B and Mr W say their copy of the policy document doesnt provide a definition of 
storm. This isnt uncommon. But having checked weather records I can see the 
maximum wind speed in the week up to date of the claim being logged isnt in the 
region of what I would reasonably consider to be storm conditions. 
But I can see the week before this, there were maximum wind speeds of up to 52 
mph in the region of Miss B and Mr Ws postcode. Which could reasonably be 
considered as a storm.
However, Privilege have provided Google Earth images from around 2018, and 
photos of the roof taken around the time of the claim. And I can see the tile slippage 
is visible in both photos. 
So Im not persuaded the tile slippage was caused by a storm event around the time 
the claim was made, and I think its been present for some time.
Miss B and Mr W said the slipped tile should be covered under accidental damage as 
it was an external and unforeseen event.
I would reasonably expect Privilege to have seen if cover could be provided for 
another reason but having considered the information available, Im not persuaded 
this would have made a difference. Ive considered if the claim could be covered 
under accidental damage, and I dont think it would have been.
I appreciate Miss B and Mr W becoming aware of it was sudden. But as the tile 
slippage has been present for some time, Im not persuaded its occurred because of 
a sudden and unexpected event. So it would not meet the general definition of 
Accidental Damage.
Miss B and Mr W said they are unhappy with the time taken to assess the claim, but I 
can see the claim was logged in March 2021 and they were made aware Privilege 
wouldnt cover the claim around four days later. I dont consider this to be an 
unreasonable amount of time. 
I understand Miss B and Mr Ws concern any rainfall could cause ingress into their 
property. But during the initial call to set up the claim Privilege told Mr W he could 
arrange temporary repairs which Privilege would consider covering, if the claim was 
accepted. So, I think Privilege have acted reasonably.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss B and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman