DRN-4322552
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain that AWP P&C SA (AWP) declined their claim and provided poor 
service, under their home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ys external drain became damaged and blocked. This resulted in water coming 
back up into the bath, sink and toilet. As they held a policy with AWP, they made a claim. 
They said that AWP provided incorrect information to them regarding cover. So, they 
instructed an independent engineer who attended, repaired the drain issue and charged Mr 
and Mrs Y £269.74.
Mr and Mrs Y believed that they were covered and raised a complaint to AWP. They wanted 
AWP to reimburse them the costs incurred. 
In its final response AWP maintained its decision to decline. But it recognised the poor 
service it had provided and offered Mr and Mrs Y £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. Although Mr and Mrs Y accepted the £100 compensation, they said that AWP 
ought to reimburse the £269.74. Also, they said that AWP hadnt even paid them the £100 
compensation it promised. So, as they had been given their referral rights, they referred a 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and ultimately didnt uphold it. She said 
that the policy terms and conditions, excluded cover for the incident. In that the drain that 
was blocked was external. And that Mr and Mrs Y provided no evidence to support that there 
had been water damage caused to the inside of their home. What they had said was that 
water was coming up through the bath, sink and toilet, which wouldnt amount to an 
emergency. So, she concluded that AWP had been fair to decline the claim. And had been 
fair to offer £100 compensation for the poor service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs Y, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered all the evidence and comments provided to me by both parties. In particular 
the extensive comments made by Mr and Mrs Y. As an informal, impartial, dispute resolution 
service, we are tasked with coming to a decision with the minimum of formality. As such, it 
isnt necessary for me to address each, and every point raised. But I have considered each 
point raised by both parties, when deciding what are the main issues of the complaint. And I 
think, the main issue of this complaint is whether AWP fairly declined Mr and Mrs Ys claim. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions as this outlines the obligations on both 
parties and the contract that both parties agreed to. The term that AWP relied upon when it 
declined Mr and Mrs Ys claim was as follows:
Failure of, or damage to, the plumbing or drainage which will result in water damage inside 
your home. This includes: burst pipes, overflowing water tanks, blocked waste outlets 
(including toilets); and blocked drains.
Ive had a thought about what this means. And I think it means if there is a failure or damage 
to the plumbing or drains then this is covered. But I also think the important words here are: 
will result in water damage inside your home. I think this makes it clear that there will only 
be cover for plumbing or drain issues, where water damage has resulted inside the insured 
property. 
Although, I accept that Mr and Mrs Y explained that water was coming up through their sink, 
bath and toilet, and they wanted to prevent damage, they have provided no evidence to 
support that any water damage was caused to anywhere inside their home. And as this is a 
specific term in their policy, Im satisfied that AWP fairly declined their claim. 
Ive next turned to the compensation offered. I understand that there was some poor 
communication, delay and misinformation given to Mr and Mrs Y from AWP. AWP, accept 
that the level of service provided wasnt its usual standard and for the shortcomings, it 
offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr and Mrs Y said that they accepted the £100 but have yet to receive it. I think in the 
circumstances, AWP ought to ensure that Mr and Mrs Y are paid as they were promised, if it 
hasnt done so already. 
I do find for the service failings that the amount of compensation offered is fair and in  line 
with our services guidance on compensation awards. So, I wont be asking AWP to increase 
this further. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ys strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why 
they referred it to our service. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent 
seen enough evidence to show that AWP acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do 
anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman