DRN-3031674
Complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 2001 and 
another in 2003. Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank Plc, trading as C&G, mis-sold them the PPI.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Lloyds throughout this decision.
Background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into this complaint and said they didnt think we
should uphold it. Mr and Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
They didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and
arguments theyd previously made. The complaint has therefore been passed to me for a
final decision.
My findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset,
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice;
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and
Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B dont specifically allege that they didnt know about the policy or that they were
told they were compelled to have it, so I think they bought the cover because it was a form of 
protection they wanted to have with their mortgage. This is supported on their mortgage 
application for the 2001 sale where they ticked a box asking for PPI to be included. And for 
the 2003 sale, they filled out and signed a specific PPI application form. So we know they 
asked for the cover on two different occasions. 
There is also reliable information pointing to them positively engaging in both sales by giving 
thought to the type of cover they actually wanted. For the first policy for example, they set it 
up on a 60/40 basis, that is, they insured Mr B for a greater amount than Mrs B. In 2003 
however, they reverted to a more common 50/50 split, with both parties being equally 
insured. So I think the evidence is very clear here that they agreed to the PPI on both 
occasions and I think Lloyds properly obtained their consent. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B as part of an advised sale each time, so it 
had a duty to make sure it was suitable for them. I think it was. 
This is because both Mr and Mrs B were eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the 
main exclusions we tend to see in these policies. I think its likely they knew what the policy 
was for, who was covered and the price. And I think they probably opted for the split in the 
cover, as I mentioned above, to fit with their financial circumstances and requirements.
I note Mr and Mrs Bs representative has sent in some information about Mr B suffering back
pain from 1975, and from another illness around 1987. I have thought carefully about these. 
No evidence was provided in support of the illnesses and whilst Im sure these could have 
been issues of concern at the time, I note they were around 26 and 14 years prior to the first 
PPI sale. Also, very few details were provided and in the absence of any such details I dont 
think Mr and Mrs B would have been put off buying the cover because of these previous 
illnesses. We were also told Mr B was self-employed at the point of the first sale, but his 
signed mortgage application says otherwise Im afraid  he was an employee, as was Mrs B. 
It also looks like the cover was affordable for them and, as their mortgage was insured 
against Mr and Mrs Bs home, it could have been useful if something went wrong.
I think the cover was suitable for them and recommending it to them wasnt wrong.
Its certainly possible the information Lloyds gave to Mr and Mrs B about the PPI, particularly 
around some of the other exclusions and limitations, wasnt as clear as it might have been. 
However, overall in my view, the PPI wasnt too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought 
they were buying from the information they were most likely given at the point of sale. There 
was nothing about Mr or Mrs Bs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for them to claim. In short, I think they would have been able to claim for most 
eventualities and because of all this, I dont think they would have declined the cover even if 
Lloyds could have done a better job at explaining certain things.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI
complaints. I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Bs 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
For the reasons above, I dont uphold the complaint. This means Lloyds Bank Plc doesnt 
have to pay back any of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
my decision
I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint or make any award in favour of them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2021. 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman