DRN-4273364
The complaint
Ms V complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) irresponsibly gave her a revolving 
credit account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 10 February 2018, Ms Vs revolving credit account was opened by Studio Retail with an 
initial credit limit of £125. The credit limit was increased to £300 later in 2018 and was 
increased to £400 on 11 April 2019. The credit limit was reduced to £370 on 11 October 
2019. On 11 April 2020 the credit limit was increased to £500 and was increased to £1,600 
on 11 November 2020. The credit limit was reduced to £1570 on 11 January 2023. 
On 8 February 2023, Ms V complained to Studio Retail to say that the account and the credit 
limit increases shouldnt have been given because they werent affordable and that Studio 
Retail ought to have made a better effort to understand her financial circumstances before it 
provided her with credit. Studio Retail did not agree. Ms V brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator thought the lending on the account was reasonable initially but thought that 
Studio Retail ought not to have increased the credit limits in April 2020 when the limit 
increased from £375 to £500. Studio Retail didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I am upholding 
Ms Vs complaint in part. I explain why below. 
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms V 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Studio Retail should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include: 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged indebtedness 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Our investigator set out in some detail why he thought Studio Retail shouldnt have provided 
Ms V with any additional credit in April 2020 and thereafter. Studio Retail didnt agree with 
what our investigator said. It said the credit limits it set were affordable for Ms V. 
Studio Retail told us it obtained credit reference data about Ms V at the time of the account 
opening and prior to each credit limit increase and that it took into consideration how the 
account was being managed. Ms Vs complaint is that Studio Retail made credit available 
that was unaffordable. 
Its possible that Studio Retail failed to make adequate checks before providing Ms V with 
both the initial credit limit and the credit limit increases. But even if thats true, I dont think 
better enquiries would have caused Studio Retail to think the initial credit limit was 
unaffordable. I say that because the initial credit limit was hugely modest and the maximum 
monthly payments for that credit would have been very modest. So, I have seen insufficient 
evidence that Ms V was in financial difficulty, such that the very modest initial credit made 
the lending unreasonable. 
Nonetheless Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Studio Retails lending history with 
Ms V, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Studio Retail should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that 
would mean Studio Retail should have realised that it shouldnt have further increased 
Ms Vs credit limits. 
Having done so, I think there was such a point in April 2020. At that time, despite the most 
modest of credit limits, I think there was a pattern of lending that ought to have put Studio 
Retail on notice that putting up the credit limit any further was unsustainable as Ms V would 
not have been able to afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner, most 
likely. I explain why I say that. 
Studio Retails records show that in the 5 months before the credit limit was increased in 
April 2020, Ms Vs account had Cs account had been in arrears for 3 of those months. 
Given that Ms V was struggling to manage her account with such a very modest limit of 
£375, I dont think that it was appropriate for Studio Retail to increase the credit limit at this 
time. Therefore, I think Studio Retail ought to have known that Ms V was unlikely to be able 
to sustain a higher limit given how her account was managed. And so, I dont think this credit 
limit increase, April 2020, or any subsequent increase shouldve been granted. 
So, I am persuaded that Studio Retail should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, and it shouldnt have further increased Ms Vs 
credit limit on 11 April 2020. It follows that I think that Ms V lost out because Studio Retail 
provided her with further credit from 11 April 2020 onwards. 
In my view, Studio Retails actions unfairly prolonged Ms Vs indebtedness by allowing her to 
use credit she couldnt afford over an extended period of time and the interest being added 
would only have the effect of putting her into further debt. It follows that Studio Retail should 
put things right. Putting things right
Rework Ms Vs accounts to ensure that from 11 April 2020 onwards interest is only 
charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £375, including any buy now pay 
later interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no 
further credit limit increases should have been provided. All late payment and over 
limit fees should also be removed; 
and 
If an outstanding balance remains on the accounts once these adjustments have 
been made Studio Retail should contact Ms V to arrange an affordable repayment 
plan for these accounts. Once Ms V has repaid the outstanding balance, it should 
remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Vs credit file from 11 April 2020 
onwards for each account. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Ms V, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. Studio Retail 
should also remove any adverse information from Ms Vs credit file from 11 April 
2020 onwards. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail to take off tax from this interest. Studio 
Retail must give Ms V a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Ms Vs complaint. Studio Retail should put 
things right in the way set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman