DRN-3955787
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy about the delays and poor service she experienced after claiming under 
the home insurance policy she had with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBG). She 
seeks compensation.
What happened
In February 2022, Mrs B had a leak which damaged her kitchen and basement. LBG 
completed the repairs in July 2022. Mrs B is unhappy with the service she experienced and 
says that LBG:
didnt return her calls;
didnt progress the claim until she chased an update;
removed her washing machine for longer than expected;
didnt provide portable bathroom facilities for its contractors;
left the flooring in an uneven state, causing her to have three near-falls, and
didnt offer an appropriate sum in compensation.
LBG agreed that it didnt provide the standard of service Mrs B mightve expected, so it 
offered £100 compensation. She didnt think that was enough and asked for £1,250, pointing 
out that a hotel wouldve cost much more than that. LBG didnt increase its offer, so Mrs B 
brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought LBGs offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so she 
didnt think it needed to do any more to resolve the complaint.
LBG told us that, on reflection, its compensation offer was too low given the service failings. 
It increased the total offer to £250 plus an assessment of Mrs Bs additional laundry 
expenses by a Personal Claims Consultant (PCC).
Mrs B didnt respond to our investigators view, but she did confirm that LBGs updated offer 
was still too low given the figures shed quoted for accommodation costs and laundry. She 
asked for £500 to settle her complaint, but LBG thought its offer of £250 was reasonable.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mrs 
Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
The shortfalls in service are not in dispute. LBG accepted that it shouldve handled Mrs Bs 
claim better, which it acknowledged when it offered £100 compensation.
But when we asked LBG for its response to Mrs Bs complaint, it reconsidered the service it 
provided and told us that its first offer wasnt enough. LBG made a new offer of £250 
compensation and for a PCC to assess under the claim the additional laundry expenses Mrs 
B incurred. So, Ive taken this into consideration when looking at the details of Mrs Bs 
complaint.
LBG agreed the following service failings:
Delays completing the scope of work and stripping out to dry.
Its contractors used Mrs Bs bathroom facilities despite her making LBG aware she 
was vulnerable and didnt want them to.
Poor communication  failing to return calls or keep Mrs B up to date with progress.
Avoidable, delayed period without her washing machine.
In light of these shortfalls, Ive thought carefully about LBGs offer to decide whether its fair 
and reasonable. I think it is for the following reasons:
Bathroom facilities
Although Mrs B asked LBG not to use her bathroom facilities, I note it did so on one day. 
LBGs contractors were only at her home for that one day and when they returned the 
following month to complete the work, they brought portable bathroom facilities. While I 
accept that even one day of using her facilities wouldve distressed Mrs B, I dont think it 
warrants compensation in the sum shes asked for. 
Delays
The overall claim took five months. There will always be some delay while scoping the work, 
waiting for areas to dry out, and actually completing the repairs. So, Ive only considered the 
avoidable delays. I can see that there was a period of around six weeks leading up to the 
stripping out work when nothing seemed to happen, which I agree wouldve been an 
avoidable delay. The rest of the delays seem reasonable and included time for preparing the 
work report, for Mrs B to choose decorations and around a month for drying out. 
Communication
LBG didnt always return Mrs Bs calls, and this isnt disputed. While LBG provided an 
understandable reason why calls to a particular staff member werent returned, it remained 
LBGs responsibility to ensure it responded appropriately to Mrs B during the course of her 
claim.
Washing machine
Mrs B was made aware that her washing machine would be removed and put into storage, 
but she said LBG didnt tell her how long that would be for. After a month, she asked about it 
and LBG returned it to her. Ive noted Mrs Bs comments about the inconvenience and 
additional expense this caused her. LBG accepted that this was a failing, which was one of 
the reasons for its original compensation offer. However, it has since offered to assess the 
additional expense as part of her claim. I think thats fair in the circumstances. Mrs B will need to provide LBG with details of the additional expenses she incurred when doing her 
laundry during the month she was without use of her washing machine.
Uneven floor
Mrs B said she nearly fell three times because the floor was left in an uneven state. She was 
particularly vulnerable to falls at that time. Ive thought carefully about this, but I cant 
reasonably hold LBG responsible. Thats because it was necessary to uncover the 
floorboards to allow for drying; it wasn't responsible for the condition of the floorboards 
underneath the flooring, and it offered Mrs B alternative accommodation. I also note that Mrs 
B said she nearly fell, which tells me that she didnt fall on the uneven flooring. I see no 
reason to ask LBG to increase its offer in respect of this issue.
Compensation
Mrs B asked for £1,250 compensation, and she pointed out that, if shed accepted LBGs 
offer, alternative accommodation wouldve cost around twice that amount. My role here is to 
look at whether LBG made mistakes in the way it handled Mrs Bs claim and to award 
compensation where I think its appropriate. While I accept that the overall cost to LBG may 
well be lower because it didnt have to find alternative accommodation for Mrs B, that doesnt 
mean it should pay her the difference. To do so would mean shes benefiting financially from 
the policy rather than being placed back into the position she shouldve been in had the 
mistakes not happened. The compensation is intended to address the avoidable distress 
and inconvenience Mrs B experienced due to LBGs mistakes.
Overall, I think LBGs first compensation offer was on the low side, especially given that it 
was aware of Mrs Bs vulnerability and the avoidable distress and inconvenience she 
experienced. While Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint, I dont plan to ask 
LBG to pay the amount she asked for. Thats because I think LBGs updated offer of £250, 
which is an additional £150 to that already paid, along with consideration of the laundry costs 
is fair and reasonable.
I said I was intending to require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to:
pay £250 compensation for the service failings, and for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, and
assess Mrs Bs additional laundry costs under the claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
LBG accepted my provisional decision. 
Mrs B didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs B didnt make any further submissions or provide further evidence for me to consider, 
I looked again at the evidence already available. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the 
provisional outcome is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Bs 
complaint and Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must:
pay £250 compensation for the service failings, and for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, and
assess Mrs Bs additional laundry costs under the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman