DRN-3042987
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice he received from Future Wealth Management (FWM) 
when he transferred three existing personal pensions to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). 
His funds were subsequently invested through two different discretionary fund managers 
(DFM), one of which was recommended by Pi. The funds managed by the other DFM were 
invested in high risk products. Mr M said he wasnt an experienced investor and didnt have 
the capacity for high risk investments.
At the time FWM was an appointed representative of Pi Financial Ltd (Pi), so they are 
responsible for FWMs actions and for this complaint. For ease of reading Ill refer to Pi 
throughout this decision. 
  
What happened
Several firms will be mentioned in this decision. These are:
Alexander Money (AM) -unregulated introducer
Pi Financial Ltd (trading as FWM) - regulated financial adviser
Horizon Stockbroking Ltd (HS)  regulated discretionary investment manager-in liquidation
TAM Asset Management (TAM)  regulated discretionary investment manager
James Hay (JH)-SIPP provider
Mr M said he contacted AM online for advice as he wanted to simplify his pensions. AM 
subsequently introduced Mr M to Pi. 
Mr M signed a letter dated 23 July 2014 to Pi saying: 
I would like to transfer my existing pension plans into a new Self Invested Personal 
Pension Plan, in order to allow me access a wider range of investment [sic]. 
Could you please recommend a suitable SIPP provider and a Discretionary Fund Manager 
to manage 50% of the investment held within the SIPP, and arrange the transfer accordingly. 
Please note I would like to manage the remaining 50% of my funds so do not require any 
advice on this as I have a separate investment advisor.
I hope that you will be able to assist me and look forward to hearing from you regarding this 
request.
On 25 July 2014 the adviser from Pi replied saying:
Thank you for the letter of 23rd July 2014 in which you instructed me to transfer your current 
. Plans into a new Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  I confirm I am happy to carry 
out your request and, as discussed, I will research the whole of the market to find the most 
appropriate SIPP for your requirements. 
I have made you aware that, under normal circumstances, I would carry out a full review of 
your personal and financial circumstances and assess them in relation to the suitability of the 
SIPP. However you have specifically requested this particular vehicle and did not want me to 
look into alternative options for you.
I will have no input in the investment strategy for your SIPP funds, as you are using a 
separate investment adviser for this, and therefore I will only be responsible for arranging, 
and transferring your funds into, the SIPP.
An undated fact find was completed. This included a handwritten note from the adviser, 
stating: I will not at his request be having anything to do with the investments within the 
new plan, other than 50% with TAM Asset Management.
The fact find noted that Mr M had no savings or investments, other than £50 in premium 
bonds, he owned his own home with an outstanding mortgage of £11,000 and had £2,500 of 
other debt. He was 47 years old, on a salary of £20,000, with an intended retirement age of 
60. He had three personal pension plans, all of which were eventually switched to the SIPP. 
Information from the ceding schemes shows two of the three pensions were invested in with 
profits funds, which accounted for approximately 80% of the value of his pension. 
Mr M signed a service agreement and fee schedule with Pi on 28 July 2014. This agreement 
indicated the service level was for limited advice.
Three Pension Replacement Contract Forms were completed on the same day. They 
included information about Mr M s existing pensions and the new SIPP, including charges 
and whether the existing plans held any guarantees. The risk category for the SIPP was 
recorded as balanced/medium, with an asset allocation being described as managed. This 
matched what was recorded for the existing plans.
The Reasons for Switching section had ticks next to the headings:
No longer suitable for clients investment objectives
Lack of features/flexibility
Other
A section on the form headed Alternatives Considered asked whether moving funds within 
the existing contracts was an option. This was ticked as no. And a note recorded this option 
was discounted because: 
Client setting up SIPP to invest with DFM & also self invest a part of the portfolio himself.
Pi received another letter from Mr M which was undated but Pi have confirmed it was 
received on 28 July 2014. This stated:
I am writing to ask that you please set up a dealing account with [HS].
Please accept this letter as authority for you to transfer funds to the sum of £30,000 (Thirty
Thousand pounds) into said account, as soon as possible. This is quite simply a 
transactional instruction and no further investment advice is being sought at this time.
Pi sent a suitability report dated 5 September 2014 and headed Personal Pension To SIPP 
Transfer. This said, amongst other things: 
My advice is based on the details you provided at our meeting.
 You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning and setting up a Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and I have acted accordingly. I have, therefore, only 
obtained the necessary information from you to advise on the above area. You should be 
aware that my recommendations may have differed if I had undertaken a full review of your 
financial circumstances.

Objectives
We have not discussed providing you with a target income in retirement or compared your 
existing providers projections. You have simply asked that I find a suitable Investment fund 
for 50% of your existing pension plan and via your SIPP you will self-Invest the rest in line 
with your agreed risk profile..

Your Risk Profile
We established that your risk profile would lead you to be a balanced medium risk investor.
And there was a section titled Replacement Business which said:
In reviewing your objectives, I have recommended that you surrender/discontinue the
contracts outlined in the Replacement Policy Form.
The rationale for this is also outlined in the Replacement Policy Form, which we completed
during our last meeting and a copy of which is attached to this letter.
The adviser outlined the points to consider for a transfer including charges, exit penalties 
(none); guaranteed annuity rates (none) and investment selection. 
It also said the effect of the charges would depend on the investment chosen within the 
SIPP.
The SIPP recommendation section said:
We discussed the various ways you could achieve your present objective as outlined above. 
I recommend that you consider a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) Plan offered by 
James Hay Partnership. James Hay Partnership was chosen over the other providers on the 
original research due to their low annual management charge, low set up fee and quality of 
service. 
It is worthwhile outlining the product features of the contract recommended to demonstrate 
why it is suitable to your current circumstances and stated objectives, which I outlined 
earlier.
It was noted in the Provider section that a copy of the research undertaken with Defaqto 
Engage had been provided with the report, which outlined in greater detail the reasons the 
recommended provider had been chosen. This report was dated 13 August 2014.
.
Discretionary Fund Manager Recommendation
The provider I am recommending is TAM Asset Management
It went on to set out the benefits of a SIPP and the reason TAM had been recommended as 
the DFM. The report was signed to confirm that Mr M had received and understood it on 12 September 
2014.
An application for the SIPP was completed and signed by Mr M on 15 September 2014. It 
showed Pi as the financial adviser and the initial adviser charges for transfers was 3% of 
each pension transfer received.
The SIPP was opened on 16 September 2014. Funds totalling £50,107.79 were transferred 
from the ceding schemes.
Mr M signed an Account Opening Form with HS. The form is undated, but names Pi as the 
independent financial adviser. This confirmed he wished to invest £30,000 with HS and 
appointed them to provide a discretionary service. His attitude to risk was recorded as 
Medium. He confirmed he was willing to invest through a managed CFD (contract for 
differences) account and understood it was a high risk, speculative product.
The Understanding & Experience section of the form shows that he hadnt made any trades 
in high risk investments, such as equities and CFDs in the previous three years.
£15,000 was invested with TAM in the Focus Balanced portfolio on 29 October 2014. The 
investment was returned to cash with a value of £15,944.32 on 27 June 2016.
£32,500 was invested with HS on 14 March 2015. The investment was returned to cash in 
two payments with a total value of £13,646 in June 2016.
The plan was transferred from JH to Novia on 18 November 2016 with a total value of 
£29,459.88. The transfer instruction shows this happened on recommendation of the same 
adviser, however whilst he was acting for a different firm (Tidal Wealth Management) who 
wasnt an appointed representative of Pi.
Mr M complained to Pi in July 2017, who didnt uphold his complaint and so it was referred to 
this service. 
One of our adjudicators investigated it. He recommended Mr Ms complaint should be 
upheld. He didnt believe that Mr Ms modest pension fund, or his attitude to risk justified 
switching his pensions to a SIPP and DFM. He said that Pi owed Mr M a duty of care to 
ensure the investments which he intended to make within his SIPP were suitable for him 
before recommending the switch. When the adjudicator left the organisation another 
colleague reviewed the complaint and agreed that Pi should compensate Mr M.
Pi still disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pi has submitted detailed submissions which I considered in full. Ive also taken into account 
their more recent submissions on a similar case which is relevant to this complaint. 
However, Ill focus in this decision on what I consider to be the key material issues in 
deciding the fair outcome of this complaint. 
Pis position in summary is that:Mr M instructed Pi to recommend an appropriate SIPP provider and Discretionary 
Fund Manager (DFM) for 50% of his pension. It only provided Mr M with a limited 
advice service on these specific instructions. Given the limited nature of the retainer 
the firm took reasonable steps to ensure that its recommendation was suitable in full 
compliance with COBS 2.4.4. 
Pi didnt provide Mr M with advice on the switch from his personal pension plans to a 
SIPP or on the investment through HS. Mr M had already decided what he wanted to 
do before he approached Pi. And the HS forms made it clear the intended 
investments were high risk. The client was fully aware they were following a high risk 
strategy, but hadnt disclosed this to Pi.
Mr M had confirmed that he would be using a separate investment manager. Pi didnt 
know who this was, but it is known that HS was an authorised and regulated firm and 
appropriately qualified. There was nothing to suggest the pension was to be invested 
in non-mainstream propositions
The investment strategy for the SIPP was the responsibility of HS who was also a 
regulated party. HS is responsible for Mr Ms losses and not Pi who only played a 
very limited role here. The fact that HS is now in liquidation doesnt change this.
relevant considerations
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Pi. Of 
particular relevance to this complaint is: 
PRIN 2: A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly 
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment. 
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint are:
COBS 9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to 
designated investment.
COBS 9.2.1(1): A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
COBS 9.2.1 (2) says that when making a personal recommendation, a firm must obtain the 
necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.
COBS 9.2.2 provides:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid 
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
I am also mindful of the general legal position including: the law relating to causation, 
foreseeability and remoteness of losses.
My considerations here are:
Did Pi give Mr M investment advice including a personal recommendation?
If so, was the advice suitable? 
If the advice was unsuitable, I need to consider whether:
Mr M would have relied on the advice or whether he would have acted the 
same way he did irrespective of Pis advice and 
If Mr M did follow Pis advice, how fair compensation should be calculated in 
the specific circumstances of this case.
advising on investments
I have firstly considered whether, based on the facts of the complaint, Pi provided Mr M with 
regulated investment advice. 
Regulated activities specified for the purposes of section 22 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) were set out in the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and 
included:
Advising on investments
53.  Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his capacity 
as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a security 
or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
Part III of the RAO listed the kinds of investment which are specified for the purposes of 
section 22 of FSMA. This included:
Article 82, Rights under a pension scheme which at the time read.
(1) Rights under a stakeholder pension scheme. 
(2) Rights under a personal pension scheme.
As far as I can see Pi agrees that they recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
SIPP provider to Mr M. This is also clearly evidenced in the following documents:
The research report which was issued on 13 August 2014 and prepared by Pis 
adviser and which -after comparing several SIPPs and providers- recommended the 
James Hay Modular iSIPP for Mr M. 
The suitability report dated 5 September 2014 headed Personal Pension To SIPP 
Transfer which said amongst other things:
My advice is based on the details you provided at our meeting.
You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning and setting up a Self 
Invested Personal Pension. (SIPP and I have acted accordingly.
The report then went onto outline the points to consider. It said In undertaking this transfer I 
would like to draw your attention to the following. It went on to list, amongst other things, the 
charges for the SIPP Pi was recommending, and confirmed there were no exit penalties from 
the original arrangements and that they didnt provide guaranteed annuity rates. 
Pi went onto make a specific recommendation We discussed the various ways you could 
achieve your present objective as outlined above. I recommend that you consider 
establishing a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) Plan offered by James Hay 
Partnership. James Hay Partnership was chosen over the other providers on the original 
research due to their low annual management charge, low set up fee and quality of service. 
It is worthwhile outlining the product features of the contract recommended to demonstrate 
why it is suitable to your current circumstances and stated objectives [my emphasis], 
which I outlined earlier.
Having undertaken appropriate research on your behalf I believe that James Hay 
Partnership will offer the most suitable contract given your stated objectives.
A copy of the research undertaken . accompanies this letter for your
consideration which outlines in greater detail the reasons for the recommendation of the 
chosen provider. [my emphasis]When considering a DFM to recommend for Mr Ms pension, Pi stated In order to determine 
the most appropriate offering available I have undertaken research via an independent 
agency
The provider I am recommending is TAM Asset Management
The basis on which I have provided this advice is set out in the Client Agreement,
which I gave you at our initial meeting. The advice provided is also based upon the
information you have disclosed and therefore, if this letter does not match your view of
the situation please let me know.
I think its clear from the documents that Pi recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
provider which they said was suitable for Mr M as well as a DFM. Im satisfied that their 
recommendations can be considered to be advising under Article 53 RAO. 
I am satisfied that Pi were giving regulated advice on investments and provided a personal 
recommendation to Mr M when they advised on the SIPP. Therefore the obligations in 
COBS 9 were engaged.
was PI entitled to rely on their limited retainer? 
Pi has said it provided a limited advice service in accordance with Mr Ms instructions. Mr M 
had specifically asked for them to recommend a SIPP product and he told them he didnt 
require investment advice for 50% of his pension. Pi says they didnt provide advice on the 
switch from Mr Ms personal pension to the SIPP or where 50% of it would be invested.
The issue to determine is whether Pi was entitled to restrict their advice to the 
recommendation of the SIPP product and a DFM for half of Mr Ms investments only. Having 
considered this carefully I dont think it was fair and reasonable for them to do so.
The purpose of Pis regulatory duties under FSMA (and COBS) is to provide consumer 
protection taking into account the differing risks involved in different kinds of investments, the 
differing degrees of experience and expertise consumers have and the needs consumers 
may have for the timely provision of information and advice that is accurate and fit for 
purpose (Section 1B FSMA). 
When recommending the SIPP, Pi needed to have a reasonable basis for believing that their 
recommendation would meet Mr Ms objectives and that he was able to bear any related 
investment risks. Mr Ms recorded objective for transferring to the SIPP was the access to a 
wider range of investments through a SIPP and DFMs. 
I consider the risks of Mr M transferring his existing pensions and the risks of his intended 
investments through the SIPP with these monies were related to the establishment of the 
SIPP itself. Applying COBS 9.2.2, Im satisfied Pi couldnt simply ignore the context of why 
Mr M wanted a recommendation for a SIPP and what Mr M was intending to do once the 
SIPP was established. I consider that in order to advise on the merits of setting up a specific 
SIPP product, Pi needed to have regard to Mr Ms wider circumstances including how his 
funds were currently invested and what the intended investment strategy would be. 
Assessing the suitability of a SIPP in isolation without considering the whole transaction is 
not reasonably possible.
The FSA published an alert in 2013 when they became concerned that regulated financial 
advisers were misinterpreting the rules. The alert focussed on unregulated investments 
which were introduced by unregulated introducers as these held particular risks for customers, however I consider the principles here still apply where regulated investments 
are concerned. The alert said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches [my emphasis] without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension..
 The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying
investments in unregulated schemes.
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in
the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If,
taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is
not suitable
It specifically referred to cases where advisers were under the false impression they could 
advise on the suitability of a SIPP in the abstract. In 2014 the FSA issued a further alert in 
which they reiterated [emphasis added]:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the 
overall advice is not suitable. 
The initial alert outlined our view that where advice is given on a product (such as a SIPP) 
which is intended as a wrapper or vehicle for investment in other products, provision of 
suitable advice generally requires consideration of the overall transaction, that is, the vehicle 
or wrapper and the expected underlying investments (whether or not such investments 
are regulated products).
Despite the initial alert, some firms continue to operate a model where they purportedly 
restrict their advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. 
I appreciate that the alert focussed on particular situations and it didnt mention explicitly 
situations where a second regulated party was involved to give investment advice. Pi says 
the alert was to provide guidance where there was an advice gap and the adviser was the 
only regulated party in the transaction. And this wasnt the case here. 
However, I think applying a narrow reading of the alert to only specific circumstances is 
misguided. The essence of the alert, in my view, was to remind advisers that they couldnt 
just advise on a SIPP in isolation, but that to comply with their regulatory obligations they 
needed to consider the consumers wider circumstances and whether what they were intending to do was suitable and in their best interest.  I strongly disagree with Pi that the 
alerts are not relevant in Mr Ms case. I want to be clear, however, that I consider Pis 
obligations in this regard stem from COBS 9 and the Principles. The alert just provides 
clarification and sets out expectations from the regulator and good industry practice. The 
requirements of COBS 9.2.2 dont fall away when another regulated party is involved.
It follows that in order to give suitable advice on the SIPP Pi needed to consider Mr Ms 
wider circumstances and the suitability of the whole transaction, i.e. the switch from a 
personal pension to a SIPP, the suitability of a particular SIPP product and provider and the 
underlying investment strategy. 
I also point to COBS 2.1.2R which sets out clearly that a firm must not seek to exclude or 
restrict; or rely on any exclusion or restriction of any duty or liability it may have to the client 
under the regulatory system. So Pi couldnt limit their obligation in COBS 9 by taking 
instructions from Mr M to only consider the SIPP wrapper in isolation. 
Pi and Mr M were in an advisory relationship where Pi was the expert and they had a duty to 
meet their regulatory obligations. As explained above COBS 9 required Pi do consider the 
wider suitability of Mr Ms intended transactions when recommending a SIPP-whether he 
requested this or not. They failed to do this and therefore I consider they did not act fairly or 
reasonably when providing their advice to Mr M.
Pi Financial referred to the court case Denning v Greenhalgh Financial Services which it said 
considered the scope of duty of advisers. And the High Court decision - Adams v Carey 
Pension UK LLP, where it noted the court had considered the duty of a party performing a 
limited service and said the decision was relevant to Mr Ms case. 
 
With respect to the Adams v Carey Pension UK LLP High Court decision, that case was 
about an execution-only contract. The parties were a SIPP administrator and an investor. It 
was clear on the facts of the case that the SIPP administrator didnt act in an advisory role 
and it told the investor to seek independent advice elsewhere. The judge held that COBS 
2.1.1 would have to therefore be construed in light of the nature of the contractual 
relationship which was not advisory. I think the circumstances in this complaint are 
significantly different. Pi didnt act on an execution-only basis. They were giving advice on 
the SIPP, so the regulatory obligations of COBS 9 did apply. And as explained above part of 
the suitability assessment of the SIPP would have included the suitability of the pension 
switch and the underlying investment strategy.
I have also considered Denning v Greenlagh, but it doesnt change my findings either. 
For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied that Pi gave regulated advice on the suitability 
of the particular SIPP. They had to comply with their regulatory obligations under COBS 9 
and, in that sense, I dont think Denning is of value to that determination.   
In summary, I consider that when advising Mr M on the suitability of the Multi Platform 
James Hay SIPP, Pi had to consider the suitability of the whole intended transaction 
including the pension switch and where Mr M intended to invest after the transfer
did Pi provide suitable advice?
COBS 9 required Pi to take reasonable steps to provide Mr M with a suitable 
recommendation, so I considered whether they met this requirement.
Mr M was 47, married, and had an annual income of £20,000. He had £50 in premium 
bonds, but no other savings or investments. Two of his three personal pensions were held in with profits funds. He didnt have any significant investment experience. His retirement age 
was recorded as 60.
As part of the advice process in recommending a suitable DFM for 50% of Mr Ms pension, 
Pi established the client had a medium attitude to risk. Given his limited experience and term 
to retirement of 13 years, I think this is reasonable.
The application forms for HS show Mr M intended to in CFDs, which are high risk 
investments and unsuitable for a medium risk investor. Pi has previously confirmed to this 
service that they agree CFDs are unsuitable for retails investors, so this isnt really in 
dispute. Given that Mr M was investing half of his entire pension provisions, in my view he 
also didnt have the required capacity for loss for this investment. 
Although it seems the investment through HS was only made in March 2015, Pi have 
confirmed that they received instruction from Mr M to invest £30,000 in HS on 28 July 2014, 
the same day many other documents, including their service and client agreement and the 
Pension Replacement Forms etc were completed. And Ive seen an email from Pi to the FCA 
in which they said:
The Advisers [referring to Pis appointed representatives] further inquired of the client where 
they intended to invest their monies and were informed that they wished to use the services 
of Horizon Stockbroking Ltd
So Im satisfied Pi knew before they made their recommendation that the other DFM Mr M 
was intending to use was HS. 
Its unclear whether Pi knew at the time they gave advice that Mr Ms HS portfolio would 
contain CFDs. However, Ive seen email correspondence between Pi and HS in 2015 where 
Pi was requesting statements for their clients which included Mr M. Pi said : [The 
statements] are all off by quite a bit and [Pis adviser] wants to speak to them. The email 
chain indicates that Pi and HS were in frequent contact about their mutual clients.
This indicates that Pi was still actively involved after the investments were made which 
somewhat conflicts with Pis statement that they only recommended the SIPP and played a 
very limited role in the process. Pi confirmed that, during their due diligence enquiries, HS 
confirmed to them that at present all our SIPP clients' have a portfolio containing ETFs and 
CFDs. So if they knew Mr M was intending to invest through Horizon, they ought to have 
known HSs investment strategy for their SIPP clients was too high risk for Mr M.
Even if I assume Pi originally didnt know what Mr M wanted to invest in, they should have 
found out before they gave their advice. As stated before, Pi needed to consider the 
transaction as a whole and without knowing what Mr M was planning to do and achieve, they 
couldnt reasonably conclude whether the transfer to a SIPP was suitable. Pi ought to have 
found out how HS intended to manage the portfolio and couldnt make a suitable 
recommendation without this information. 
In summary, I think Pi should not have recommended a SIPP to Mr M. They should have 
explained that his intended investments were too high risk and that given his limited assets, 
he couldnt financially bear these risks with his retirement funds. 
Given Mr M had no real investment experience, Pi should have also considered whether a 
switch to a SIPP and DFM in general was suitable. The existing pensions he had were 
invested in line with his attitude to risk and I cant see that there was any pressing need to 
change his provisions, particularly as the DFM would have also added to the charges Mr M 
was paying. I cant see that any proper comparison was done to see whether a SIPP or DFM could in fact provide a better outcome for Mr M than his existing pensions. Pi knew that an 
unregulated introducer was involved and should have realised based on the information they 
had that Mr M wasnt an experienced investor, so the fact Mr M wanted to suddenly actively 
manage his investments should have been queried.
In my view Pi were in breach of the Principles and COBS when they recommended the SIPP 
without knowing the ultimate destination of the funds. They didnt pay due regard to Mr Ms 
interests and did not take reasonable steps to ensure that their personal recommendation 
was suitable for Mr M as per their regulatory obligations. Therefore I do not consider that Pis 
actions in their dealings with Mr M were fair or reasonable in the circumstances. 
would Mr M have transferred his pension to a SIPP and invested through HS anyway?
Pi say that the paperwork Mr M received from HS would have clearly set out that the product 
was high risk. So Mr M would have known the risks and agreed, Pi presumes, because he 
had a strong desire to invest in CFDs. Pi said it was highly likely that even if they had 
provided Mr M with risk warnings or refused to recommend the SIPP, Mr M would have gone 
ahead with the transfer and found another adviser.
I carefully considered Pis argument, however on balance I think Mr M would have listened to 
Pi if they had clearly told him they wouldnt recommend a SIPP and that they considered the 
intended investments through HS to be unsuitable for him. 
Mr M has said he had contacted AM online as at the time he wanted to simplify his pension 
arrangements. They referred him to Pi as AM told him they couldnt give pension advice. 
Although Mr M may have signed the initial instruction letter, I think it should be considered in 
the context that the transaction was initiated by AM. There was no longstanding relationship 
between Mr M and AM and it seems unlikely to me that Mr M would have had plans to move 
his pension onto a SIPP platform, or invest in high risk propositions, such as CFDs, when he 
had no investment experience.
I think explicit advice from Pi acting as a professional firm would have carried significantly 
more weight than the wording in the application forms warning the investment was high risk. 
The consequences of the loss of the pension were of great significance to Mr Ms overall 
financial position. Mr M didnt have the capacity to bear significant losses to his pension, 
which was a real possibility with the investment in the CFD account.
So I think on balance if Pi, as a regulated adviser and independent third party, had told Mr M 
they couldnt recommend the SIPP as the intended investments were not suitable for his 
circumstances, the transaction wasnt in his best interest and he couldnt afford to risk his 
pension in this way, I think he would have decided not to proceed. 
If AM had continued to influence him, he would have faced a choice between taking the 
advice of the unregulated introducer or the authorised firm who he had been told by AM 
were the pension adviser. Im not persuaded the evidence suggests Mr M was so strongly 
motivated to make the transaction that he would have decided to press ahead with it against 
professional expert advice. For the reasons I have given above, Im satisfied that Mr M 
would more likely than not have remained with his existing pension arrangements if Pi had 
explained the position in full and recommended against the SIPP and investment with HS.
reliance on another regulated party: COBS 2.4.4
Pi also said COBS 2.4.4 should be considered. They say they were entitled to rely on HS 
providing a suitable recommendation for Mr M. Pi doesnt accept that there was a regulatory obligation for them to assess the investment in detail and certainly not to the extent than it 
would be expected from someone who recommended the investment.
Firstly, I dont consider that COBS 2.4.4. applies here. The rule broadly says where a firm 
(F1) receives an instruction from another regulated firm (F2) to carry out a regulated activity 
on behalf of a client, F1 can rely on assessments or information provided to it by F2. Pi 
suggests in these particular circumstances they were F1 and HS were F2. However, Pi didnt 
receive any instructions here from HS. 
There was no need for Pi to assess the investment in encompassing detail. But they needed 
to have sufficient understanding of what Mr M would be invested in and they either knew or 
should have known Mr Ms intended investments would include CFDs. Pi agreed that 
[CFDs] are not suitable for retail clients
So in any event, even if COBS 2.4.4. applied, I cant see how Pi could reasonably rely on HS 
providing Mr M with a suitable investment, when they knew or ought to have known that his 
investments would include CFDs which Pi considered unsuitable for retail clients like Mr M.
fair compensation
I have found that Pi gave Mr M unsuitable advice and if it wasnt for their advice, Mr M more 
likely than not would not have proceeded with the switch to a SIPP and subsequent 
investment through HS. Having considered all the evidence and arguments, I consider it fair 
that Pi compensates Mr M for any losses he suffered by transferring into the SIPP and 
investing into high risk investments through HS.
Pi says it cant be required to pay compensation which is outside of its legal scope of 
responsibility and which is too remote to be recoverable as a matter of law. It referred to 
SAAMCO v York Montague Ltd [1997] and BPE Solicitors v Hughes-Holland [2018]. 
Pis scope of duty was to take reasonable steps to give a suitable recommendation. This 
included understanding Mr Ms knowledge and experience, objectives and financial situation. 
Part of this duty was the consideration of the pension switch and the underlying investment 
in the SIPP as explained above. 
Pi breached their regulatory duties when they recommended a SIPP without establishing 
how Mr Ms pension would be invested.  For the reasons I have given earlier in the decision, 
I think Mr M would have likely not ended up in the SIPP and HS account but for Pis failings 
and if they had met their obligations under COBS and PRIN. And consequently he wouldnt 
have suffered the investment losses he did. I therefore consider the losses Mr M suffered 
from the high-risk investment are related to Pis unsuitable advice.
Pi say HS, who was also a regulated firm, had their own obligations towards Mr M and it was 
their investment strategy that ultimately caused Mr Ms losses. Pi pointed to other decisions 
at this service were findings were made that HS had caused losses by excessive trades. 
Based on this, Pi say it seems likely that the losses suffered by Mr M are down to similarly 
excessive trade volumes by HS and a failure to keep the proportion of CFDs within portfolios 
to an acceptable level. They say these were not issues that could have been foreseen by Pi 
and the losses incurred are therefore too remote. 
I recognise that HS also had regulatory obligations and its possible that their actions may 
have also separately caused some of Mr Ms loss. And Ive taken into consideration that, in 
principle, if HS acted negligently or fraudulently, such actions might represent a break in the 
chain of causation. In these particular circumstances, however, I dont think Mr Ms losses were unforeseeable. 
Pi knew or ought to have known this was a high-risk and speculative investment product and 
they agreed in their submissions that they didnt consider this suitable for Mr M. So Im 
satisfied the real risk of Mr M suffering substantial losses and even the risk of total loss of to 
his pension would or should have been foreseeable to Pi. 
Its possible that HS did excessive trades and Pi might have not foreseen the scale of the 
losses. However, as I said above, Pis suitable advice would have more likely than not 
prevented all losses. Pi knew of the high risks and significant losses Mr M could suffer by 
investing his pension funds through HS in a CFD account. If Pi had given Mr M suitable 
advice these losses would have been prevented.
In my view Mr Ms losses flowed from Pis failures in regard to COBS and PRIN as I have 
described. I dont think the losses are too remote or that I am departing from the law. In all 
the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair compensation that Pi compensates Mr M for the 
losses he suffered by transferring his pension into a SIPP and from there into high risk 
investments. 
I cant consider a complaint against HS as they are in default. In the circumstances of this 
case I think its reasonable to award fair compensation against Pi notwithstanding any 
potential break of chain of causation. 
This is because Im putting Mr M as far as possible in the financial position he would be in 
but for Pis unsuitable advice. Mr M wouldnt have lost out at all but for Pis failings to take 
reasonable steps to ensure their advice was suitable and Pi benefitted financially [in their 
role as independent financial advisors] from advising on this unsuitable transaction. So I 
consider it fair that Pi should compensate Mr M. I think apportioning responsibility to Pi for 
the whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
In my view Mr Ms losses flowed from PIs failures in regard to COBS and PRIN as I have 
described. I dont think the losses are too remote or that I am departing from the law. In all 
the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair compensation that Pi compensates Mr M for the 
losses he suffered by transferring his pension into a SIPP and from there into high-risk 
investments. 
putting things right
In awarding fair compensation for Mr Ms losses my aim is to put Mr M as close as possible 
to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice by Pi.
I think Mr M would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done. He might have remained in his existing plans or consolidated them in a new 
plan. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ms 
circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
Mr M was advised to switch his pension again to a new SIPP provider and did so on 18 
November 2016. This advice was given by the same adviser, however he did this as an 
adviser for a different firm (Tidal Wealth Management) who wasnt an appointed 
representative of Pi. As the advice in 2016 forms a new advice point which Pi is not 
responsible for, I consider it fair and reasonable to stop loss calculations on this date. 
However, I also considered that Mr M will have lost out on investment returns on this loss 
amount between then and now. So losses need to be brought up to date as set out below.
To compensate Mr M fairly, Pi must:Compare the performance of Mr Ms investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the fair 
value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Pi should add interest as set out below.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. If Mr M hasnt yet taken any tax-free 
cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement presumed to be 20%. So making a 
notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, Pi Financial Ltd should pay Mr M £300 for the distress suffered when he realised 
he had lost significant parts of his pension.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi Financial considers its required by
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr M how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
JH SIPP transferredFTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Indexdate of 
transfer18 November 
2016The loss figure 
should be brought 
up to date from 
the end date to 
the date of this 
final decision 
using the same 
benchmark
In addition, Pi Financial Ltd should pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum on the 
compensation calculated as at the date of this decision if its not paid to Mr F within 28 days 
of us notifying Pi Financial Ltd that Mr L has accepted my final decision. 
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr M paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the 
end instead of deducting periodically. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ms circumstances and risk attitude. 
Details of the calculations should be provided to Mr M in a clear and simple format.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman