DRN-2631096
The complaint
Mr R complains that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited declined a claim under his 
Car Hire Excess insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R had a Car Hire Excess insurance policy underwritten by XL Catlin. The purpose of the 
policy was to cover Mr R for any excess payments he might have to make if he were 
involved in an accident whilst driving hire cars and repairs were required.
Mr R was involved in an accident in September 2019 whilst driving a hire car overseas. He 
says this was due to the cruise control in the car becoming locked and the brakes failing. He 
collided with a concrete barrier, which is what brought the car to a stop. The car suffered 
extensive damage to the front end.
Mr R paid an excess for the repairs, which came to £1360.93 when converted to pounds 
sterling. He made a claim for that amount to XL Catlin in October 2019  after hed obtained 
an invoice for the repairs from the car hire company.
XL Catlin declined the claim. They said the policy included an exclusion which meant that 
they wouldnt cover the excess paid for repairs after accidents caused by wear and tear or 
mechanical or electrical breakdown.
They said Mr Rs own account of the accident was that cruise control and brakes failed  a 
mechanical or electrical breakdown. And so, the relevant exclusion applied.
Mr R wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think XL Catlin had done anything wrong.
Mr R disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigators view, I issued a provisional decision before 
making my final decision. This allowed both Mr R and XL Catlin the opportunity to offer 
further comment and/or provide further evidence before I make this final decision  which is 
this services last word on this case.
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute at all about the facts of this case. The accident happened as Mr R 
described. Hes provided accident reports which confirm that. Hes also provided 
evidence that he made the excess payment to the car hire company.
So, the decision for me is entirely about the meaning of the wording used in the 
policy.
Again, theres no dispute here that Mr R bought a policy which covers excess 
payments when hire cars require repairs after being involved in an accident. Thats 
the purpose of the policy.
And so, my decision revolves around the meaning of the exclusion quoted by XL 
Catlin when they declined Mr Rs claim.
This is in a section of the policy document headed General Exclusions which apply 
to the whole policy. That section doesnt have any introductory comments or 
explanation, it simply gives a list.
At number 10 on that list, it says:
Wear, tear, mechanical or electrical breakdown, other than for towing.
XL Catlin say that means that if the accident in question were caused by any of those 
things (wear and tear or mechanical or electrical breakdown), they wont cover the 
excess. And thats the basis on which theyve declined Mr Rs claim, given his own 
description of what caused the accident.
I think a much more natural reading of the policy document would suggest that the 
list of exclusions refers to the potential reasons for repairs being carried out. That is, 
the policy is saying that XL Catlin wont cover the excess for work specifically to 
repair mechanical or electrical breakdown.
Mr R has provided evidence that the repairs to the hire car in this case arent repairs 
to the brakes or cruise control. Theyre repairs to the front end of the car  the front 
wings, bonnet, windscreen and roof, wheels and tyres.
That damage  and the repairs to rectify it  are the result of an accident (the very 
thing the policy covers) and not damage as a result of wear and tear or electrical or 
mechanical breakdown.
There are two possible readings of the exclusion in question. It could in theory be list 
of possible causes of accidents, as XL Catlin suggest. But Im satisfied thats not the 
most natural construction of what that exclusion means. And if it were a list of 
possible causes of accidents, rather than a list of reasons for repairs, Id expect the 
policy to say so  either in the wording of the exclusion itself or in an introductory or 
contextual statement somewhere in the exclusions section.
In short, I dont think the policy wording was intended to suggest XL Catlin wouldnt 
cover the excess for repairs carried out after an accident if that accident was caused 
by mechanical or electrical breakdown. I think its much more likely it was intended to 
say XL Catlin wouldnt cover the excess for work to repair electrical or mechanical 
breakdown. They wont, in other words, cover the excess when the car breaks down 
at the side of the road and requires repairs to components that have failed, worn out 
or gone beyond their useful age.
I also bear in mind that our usual approach in cases where there is ambiguity in the 
meaning of a policy wording is to interpret the words in the way that benefits the 
customer. The business are the experts in insurance, not the customer. And if they 
leave open a construction of their policy which the customer may have taken as read when buying the policy, they  the business  should live with the consequences of 
that ambiguity in the document they drafted.
XL Catlin havent suggested that any other exclusion may apply in this case or that 
theres any other reason to decline Mr Rs claim.
So, Im minded to instruct XL Catlin to pay Mr Rs claim in full. Because Mr R has 
been deprived of that money for a period of time, Im also minded to instruct them to 
pay interest at 8% simple from the time the claim was made  23 October 2019  to 
the date they pay the claim.
Mr R has also suffered a degree of trouble and upset as a result of his claim being 
declined. Hes had the worry and stress of not knowing whether he would lose the 
money  and of dealing with the arguments around the claim. So, Im minded to 
instruct XL Catlin to pay Mr R £100 in compensation for his trouble and upset.
And so, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I said I was minded to uphold 
Mr Rs complaint and instruct XL Catlin to put things right in the way set out above.
The responses to my provisional decision
Perhaps unsurprisingly, Mr R responded to my provisional decision to say he agreed with it.
XL Catlin responded to say they didnt agree. They say its clear from the product 
documentation that the policy provides cover for any excess payable in the event of loss or 
damage to the rental vehicle.
They say this makes it clear the policy isnt to cover breakdown  and the customer would 
have known this. So, the argument set out in my provisional decision  that the best reading 
of the relevant exclusion is that its there to make it clear they wont cover any excess for 
repairs when the vehicle breaks down at the side of the road - isnt valid. 
According to XL Catlin, theres no need for any such exclusion, because its clear from the 
defined purpose of the policy that breakdown isnt covered in any case. So, the exclusion 
they do list cant conceivably be read in the way I read it.
They also say that the relevant exclusion (exclusion 10) is intended as an exclusion in 
relation to:
 costs for repairs directly related to wear, tear, mechanical or electrical 
breakdown.
So, the claim was correctly declined because mechanical or electrical breakdown caused the 
accident which damaged the car and required repairs to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the responses to my provisional decision. And having done so, I 
havent changed my mind. Im still going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Im grateful to XL Catlin for their further observations on this complaint. And I think those 
comments show that we can all agree that the crux of this matter is the meaning of the wording of the relevant exclusion (exclusion 10) which I quoted in full in my provisional 
decision (above).
As I said in my provisional decision, the two possible readings of the exclusion are: (a) that 
XL Catlin will not cover the excess when work is carried out to repair wear, tear or 
mechanical or electrical breakdown; or (b) that XL Catlin wont cover the excess when work 
is carried out to repair damage resulting from an accident where that accident was caused 
by wear, tear, mechanical or electrical breakdown.
Im not convinced by XL Catlins argument that the nature of the policy is clear from the 
stated purpose  and so, theres no need for an exclusion about breakdown.
The relevant section of the document XL Catlin refer to - the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) - defines the cover as being: 
for people who want to insure themselves against the financial cost of the vehicle 
hire excess payable in the event of loss or damage to the rental vehicle.
Theres then a section entitled What is Insured?. The bullet points here include £2,500 
excess reimbursement. The section What is not insured? makes no reference at all to wear 
and tear or mechanical or electrical breakdown. 
As I said in my provisional decision, there is no preamble to the exclusion section of the 
policy itself, nor any explanatory notes or comments. And I dont think the IPID brings us any 
closer to clearing up the ambiguity about what the exclusion means or was intended to 
mean.
XL Catlins other line of argument is that the exclusion applies to costs for repairs directly 
related (their own words) to wear, tear or mechanical or electrical breakdown.
I have two issues with that line of argument. 
First, the exclusion doesnt say that. The words directly related to arent used in the 
exclusion or in any part of the policy related to it. So, Id still maintain that the most natural 
reading of the actual wording is that whats not covered is any excess relating to repairs of 
(rather than caused by) wear, tear or mechanical or electrical breakdown. 
And even if the words directly related to had been used in the policy wording, they dont 
mean the same as caused by.
Second, even if you think there are alternative ways to interpret the wording of the exclusion, 
Im satisfied that this still - at best - leaves the meaning of the exclusion ambiguous. And as I 
said in my provisional decision, if there is ambiguity in a policy wording, wed tend to find in 
favour of the customer and not the insurer  for the very good reasons set out in my 
provisional decision. 
In summary, I remain of the view that Mr R had  and clearly thought he had  cover for any 
excess relating to repairs if he was involved in an accident and the hire car was damaged. 
He was involved in an accident. The car was damaged by that accident. And the repairs for 
which he had to pay the excess were repairs to the damage caused by the accident (and not 
repairs to wear and tear or electrical or mechanical breakdown).And there is no exclusion in the policy which unambiguously says that XL Catlin will not pay 
out if the accident was caused by wear, tear or mechanical or electrical damage. If XL Catlin 
intended to include such an exclusion, they didnt succeed in that intention.
So, I havent changed my mind in light of XL Catlins response to my provisional decision 
and Im still going to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Putting things right
As per my provisional decision, XL Catlin must pay Mr Rs claim in full. 
And because Mr R has been deprived of that money for a period of time, they should also 
pay interest at 8% simple from the time the claim was made  23 October 2019  to the date 
they pay the claim.
I also remain convinced that Mr R has also suffered a degree of trouble and upset as a result 
of his claim being declined  as set out in my provisional decision. So, XL Catlin should also 
pay Mr R £100 in compensation for his trouble and upset.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint. XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited must:
pay Mr R the full cost of the excess set out in his claim (£1360.93);
pay interest on that amount at 8% simple from 23 October 2019 to the date they 
make the payment to Mr R;
pay Mr R £100 for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman