DRN-3259246
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted unfairly by continuing 
to apply charges to their joint account when they were in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W complained to Lloyds that the fees on their overdraft were ridiculous and 
keeping them in a cycle of debt. 
Lloyds says the fees were correctly applied to their account in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. It says it has already offered a number of waivers, refunds and 
holds on the account to assist with maintaining the account and needs Mr and Mrs W to 
provide details of their income and expenditure to assist further. It has advised Mr and Mrs 
W to get in touch with its collections team.
One of our adjudicators looked into their concerns and thought that Lloyds shouldve realised 
that Mr and Mrs W were in financial difficulty and refunded the overdraft charges applied to 
the account from March 2015 because the account in question hadnt maintained a credit 
balance for a significant period of time and there were a number of returned direct debits and 
cheques unpaid. 
Lloyds disagreed  it says it believes Mr and Mrs Ws account activity suggests poor account 
management rather than financial difficulties. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a decision. I issued my provisional 
decision on 24 November 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing 
not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further 
submissions before I reached a final decision. Mr and Mrs W have come back with further 
information but ultimately I dont think it changes the outcome of their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs W are complaining about the proportionality of the charges 
applied to their account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent 
considered whether the various amounts Lloyds charged over the years were fair and 
reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Lloyds various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr and Mrs W if 
it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr and Mrs Ws account in circumstances where 
it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr and Mrs W were 
experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mr and Mrs W 
fairly and reasonably. And overall I dont think that Lloyds did treat Mr and Mrs W unfairly or 
unreasonably. I say this because having looked at Mr and Mrs Ws statements although I 
can see that there were times where direct debit payments were returned and unpaid 
cheques, most the time Mr and Mrs Ws overdraft was being managed. 
Mr and Mrs W may argue their regular use of their overdraft was in itself an indication that 
they were struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over 
their expenditure, nonetheless there are significant and at times large amounts of non-
committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions. 
There were regular cash transfers into the account and out of the account into other 
accounts held by Mr and Mrs W and regular £50 payments into an ISA. While this wasnt 
enough to pay off their overdraft in full, it was certainly enough to bring it down and pay it off 
within a reasonable time should they have chosen to do so. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr and Mrs W werent experiencing financial 
difficulty. But there isnt anything in on the statements in themselves which ought to have 
alerted Lloyds to any potential financial difficulty. And the amount being credited to the 
account each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of his seeing a 
credit balance at any stage either. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Lloyds to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr and Mrs Ws account was 
being used. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs W would like a refund of all fees charged on the account but 
Lloyds have already refunded fees and put a stop on charges on occasions and with Mr and 
Mrs W not having been able to provide details of their income and expenditure I dont think 
at this stage it should be required to do anything more. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds treated Mr and Mrs W 
unfairly or unreasonably and this means that Im not minded to uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs W. But I hope they understand 
the reasons for my decision and that theyll at least feel their concerns have been listened 
to. 
Since I issued my provisional decision Mr and Mrs W have told us that the large payments 
paid out of their account were to Mr Ws parents for loans borrowed during the year and that 
they transferred money to an ISA to stop it being used on bills leaving the account and that 
they spent this on food.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W may well have been struggling financially but if I am to find 
that Lloyds had done something wrong I would need to find that it ought to have known 
based on the information it had, that Mr and Mrs W were suffering from financial difficulties. 
And I havent seen anything to suggest that Lloyds knew the large money transfers out of the 
account were to pay back loans or that the regular transfers into the ISA wasnt savings. So I 
cant say Lloyds did anything wrong and I dont think it treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly which 
means I do not uphold this complaint.  
My final decisionMy final decision is I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman