DRN-3460734
The complaint
Mr P complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading
American Express (Amex) didnt treat him fairly when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr P has an Amex credit card  held since 2003. On the statement sent on 28 April 2021, 
the balance was £4,992.49 and the limit was £5,000. The minimum payment needed was
£184  by 23 May 2021. Mr P was in financial difficulty and had lost his job due to the 
pandemic. On 24 May 2021, he called Amex and said he couldnt afford to pay the whole 
amount. Hed paid £120.01. He asked for help. On the same day Amex blocked his credit 
card and sent him a default notice. There was a further call on 25 May 2021. In August 
2021, Amex increased the interest rate on Mr Ps card from 22.2% APR to 26.1% APR.
Mr P complained. Amex had increased his minimum payments to £184 in July 2019  from
£125  and this was causing him financial difficulty. He had lost his job due to the 
pandemic and was struggling to make ends meet. He asked for financial support from 
Amex and he said he didnt get it. And they then blocked his card  which meant he was 
embarrassed when trying to pay for food in a supermarket that evening. And Amex then 
sent him a default notice threatening legal action  which was uncalled for, particularly in 
view of his long relationship with Amex. He said he hadnt missed a payment in 19 years. 
And he only underpaid in May 2021 by £60, so he hadnt been treated reasonably. And 
then  Amex increased the interest rates on his card which he said was also unfair.
Amex said Mr Ps complaint about increasing his minimum payments was out of time 
under the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules for dealing with complaints. On Mr 
Ps other complaints, Amex said they could change interest rates in line with their terms 
and conditions  and the increases applied to all cardholders. Mr P could have opted out, 
by cancelling his card, but didnt. On Mr Ps financial difficulties, Amex said that their 
Financial Difficulties Team had spoken to Mr P on 24 May 2021, and completed an 
income & expenditure form and decided that their Regain programme was the best 
option for Mr P.
This involved a suspension of interest and charges but would also mean a marker on Mr 
Ps credit file. Amex said that was the best option for Mr P  even though he didnt go 
ahead with it. There had been some confusion on the call about the blocking of the card  
and for this they paid compensation of £50.
Mr P brought his complaint to us. Our investigator agreed that Mr Ps complaint about the 
increase in minimum payments was out of time  as it had been more than six months since 
Amex had issued their final response. On the increase in interest rates, Amex could do that 
as part of their terms and conditions. On Mr Ps calls with Amex on 24 May 2021  she felt 
that Amex had offered Mr P an appropriate level of help, but there was some confusion over 
the blocking of the card. And on the follow up call on 25 May 2021, she felt that Amexs call 
handler wasnt empathetic to Mr Ps situation and talked over him  and she didnt listen to 
the points he was making. She believed the compensation should be £150  an additional
£100.
Mr P didnt agree and asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Under our rules, we cant look at Mr Ps complaint about the increases in his 
minimum payments  as he brought his complaint to us more than six months after 
Amexs final response about that. We advised Mr P of this at the start of our 
investigation.
There are two aspects to his complaint which we can look at: the increase in interest rates 
on his card in August 2021; and the support given by Amex in May 2021 when he told 
them he was financial difficulty.
On the first complaint  about the increase in interest rates, I can see that Amex wrote to 
Mr P (and all cardholders) in June 2021 to say the increase would take place in August 
2021. This said that the increase could be avoided if Mr P cancelled (and repaid) his card. 
So  he was given 60 days to do that if he wished. Theres no doubt that Amex could 
change the interest rates on the account  thats in their terms and conditions, and they did 
give Mr P 60 days notice, as they were required to do in the terms and conditions. And it 
was for all cardholders of that card, not just for Mr P And  the increase was a commercial 
decision that Amex took. So, we cant interfere with that. I accept that Mr P argues that he 
could not repay his card debt and had no option but to stay with Amex  but Im afraid we 
cant say that Amex acted unfairly in increasing the interest rates.
Ive then considered how Mr P was treated when he contacted Amex on 24 May 2021. He 
was struggling and had lost his job due to the pandemic. He need help  as he knew he 
couldnt make to minimum payment needed (£184) for that month. It was needed by 23 
May 2021. I can see that by the time he called Amex  he had paid in £120.11. I can also 
see that in the previous four months (January 2021 to April 2021, Mr P had paid more than 
the minimum needed. He told us (and Amex on the call) that he had never missed a 
payment in 19 years. He was clearly trying his best to do the right thing and be open about 
his circumstances with Amex.
So  in this context, I listened to the call with Amex on 24 May 2021. It was with Amexs 
financial difficulties team. I found Amexs call handler to be empathetic, patient, and 
professional. Mr P said he couldnt make the full payment for May 2021. Amexs call 
handler completed an income and expenditure form  which showed Mr P had monthly 
income of £1,053 and outgoings of £3,160. She offered Mr P Amexs regain plan which 
would result in lower monthly payments, and zero interest and charges; the card would be 
stopped; and the arrangement would be notified to the credit reference agencies (CRAs) 
and be run by a third party company. He would be sent a default notice as part of regain.
Mr P said clearly that he didnt agree to that  he was concerned about the effect on his 
credit file and the involvement of a third-party company. He asked to be sent details by 
email and said he would consider it. A call was arranged for the following day. But for me, 
it was clear that Mr P wouldnt accept the solution Amex were proposing. Mr P said to 
Amex on the call (and in his complaint to us) that his other creditors were charging no 
interest, with no impact on his credit file. I dont have specific knowledge of Mr Ps other 
arrangements and cant comment on them  but in general terms, I would be surprised if 
that were the case. I say that because payment plans such as Amexs regain plan are 
normally noted on customers credit files. But - I think that given Mr Ps financial situation, 
the regain programme was an appropriate way forward for Mr P  so I cant say Amex 
were wrong to propose it.However, I dont think the call ended clearly, and this is where Amex didnt act reasonably 
in my view. Amex had said that the regain plans contents (cancelling the card; reduced 
payments; zero interest and charges; notification to CRAs; default notice) would take place 
if Mr P accepted the regain plan. But Mr P said he didnt want the regain plan. And he 
said do not cancel the card two or three times. The call handler said she would not cancel 
the card. She said, do not worry, we will not cancel the card as you are not agreeing to 
regain at the moment. But she then said Amex would send a default notice - which she 
said could be ignored.
What happened then  was that Mr P went shopping at a supermarket  he said to buy 
food for the family for that evenings meal. The card was declined as it had been stopped. 
This was contrary to what the call handler had told Mr P  and it must have been very 
embarrassing for Mr P to have been declined at the checkout. So  Amex were at fault 
here.
Turning to the default notice. I accept that Mr P had told Amex he couldnt pay the £184 for 
May 2021. And the call handler told Mr P that a default notice would be sent. But equally, 
Amex also said it would only be sent as part of the regain package  which Mr P had not 
agreed to. And a call had been arranged for the following day  by when Mr P would have 
considered the details of the regain package. On balance, I think Mr P was entitled to 
think that nothing would happen until hes considered what Amex had told him and had the 
follow- up call. So  I dont think it was reasonable to send Mr P the default notice.
The default notice was dated 24 May 2021 and it said We have reasonable grounds to 
consider that you are no longer creditworthy and that you will be unable or unwilling to 
make your contractual payments when duethis is our final demand for payment. Your 
American Express card will be cancelled in 14 calendar days of the date of this 
notice.we may take legal proceedings against you for the outstanding balanceyour 
account may be referred to a debt collection agency.information regarding the status of 
the account may be reported to a credit reference agency where it will remain on record 
for 6 years.
I accept that Mr P hadnt made the full payment of £184 by 23 May 2021  but he had paid
£120.01 (£64.99 short) and he says hed not missed a full payment for 19 years  which I 
also accept. I saw that for four months previously, he paid more than the monthly minimum. 
I accept that Amex were entitled to send him a default notice because of the 
underpayment. But while Amex has followed their processes here, strictly following a 
procedure or process can lead to an unfair outcome for a customer in the individual 
circumstances of their situation. I think thats whats happened here. I can see that the 
default letter caused Mr P a lot of stress and worry  and I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for Amex to have waited for the call the following day (as arranged) to consider 
their position in the light of what Mr P then told them about whether he accepted the Regain 
plan or not; or send a letter (not a default notice) stating that the full payment had not been 
made, and to make it up the next month. Given how open Mr P had been with Amex about 
his situation  and that he was still considering what Amex had told him about the regain 
plan  I think that would have been a fairer and more reasonable way forward.
On the call (the next day as arranged) on 25 May 2021  Amexs call handler told Mr P that 
the default notice and letter stopping his card had been emailed to him. On the call, Mr P 
confirmed to hadnt been emailed to him, not had he been advised by email of the stopping 
of his card. Mr P told us that the default notice wasnt received (by second class post) until 
after the expiry of the 14-day period  and I can see that this also added to his anxiety.We asked Amex about whether a default or any kind of marker was added to Mr Ps credit 
file at the time  and they confirmed nothing had been notified to the CRAs.
Ive then considered an appropriate amount of compensation for what happened. Our 
service had set down criteria by which to consider awards. In this case, I can see that the 
default notice, and the error that Amex made in cancelling Mr Ps card caused him 
considerable stress and inconvenience. That comes across in his correspondence, and in 
the calls I listened to. And so, I think that compensation of £250 is appropriate here  of
which Amex has already paid £50.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr P made the point that he felt that £200 was low for what Amex had put him through. But 
he accepted the provisional decision. Amex accepted it also.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because both Mr P and Amex accepted my findings, I wont be departing from the 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as 
American Express must: 
Pay compensation of £200 to Mr P for distress and inconvenience. This is in addition 
to the £50 already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman