DRN-3497931
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that West Bay Insurance Plc unreasonably refused to pay her claim
under her pet policy as it believed the condition claimed for was a pre-existing condition.
What happened
Mrs W adopted her dog from a rescue centre on 29 May 2021 and at the same time took this
policy online.
She said she noticed her dog was limping 3 June, so she brought her to vet on 4 June.
Initially the vet thought her dog must have been limping at the rescue centre so that is what
is written in the vet history. Subsequently given the rescue centres owner confirming the dog
wasnt limping at all before being adopted, the vet explained he has made an incorrect
assumption on the matter.
However West Bay placed greater reliance on the initial view and said it could not pay Mrs
Ws claim as the condition complained of occurred before the policy started.
Mrs W remained dissatisfied, so she brought her complaint to us. Initially the investigator
upheld it on the basis of the explanation in the vet history that it wasnt a pre-existing
condition and that the vet thought it was an accidental injury. West Bay disagreed given it
said it was entitled to rely on the vet history which initially said it was pre-existing. Plus, it
said the vet history talked about the possibility of cruciate ligament issues which isnt classed
as an accidental injury.
So, the investigator reviewed the matter again. This time he was of the view the claim was 
concerning a pre-existing condition plus he felt there was no evidence from the vet that 
investigations had been done to class it as an accidental injury.
As Mrs W remained dissatisfied her complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 July and I said the following:
All pet insurers are entitled to rely on whats written in the vet history. And part of the 
vets regulation is that they know and understand pet insurers will rely on what they 
write in the vet history. So generally, I would agree West Bay is fully entitled to rely 
on the contents of the vet history. But here the situation is slightly different.
Mrs Ws vet has explained he made an assumption and indeed so did Mrs W initially 
too. Given the rescue centre was very clear the dog was not limping before Mrs W 
adopted her dog, I consider the vets correction of the vet history to be reasonable in 
the very particular circumstances of this complaint. So that means I dont consider on 
the balance of probability that this was a pre-existing injury meaning one that started 
before the policy commenced.
However, the policy in line with virtually every other pet policy has limitations in the 
provision of cover within the first 14 days of the policy starting. Given this is an 
industry standard, I dont find it unusual of significant. It says the following is 
excluded:
Any illness or injury or complication directly resulting from an injury or illness, 
that has been identified or investigated by a vet or is otherwise known to you 
prior to the start of the insurance or within the first (14 days for illness) and 
(48 hours for injury) of the policy'.
The policy also has the following definitions:
Accident  One sudden and unexpected external event which happens 
during the period of insurance resulting in physical bodily injury or death to 
your pet.
Injury/injuries  Clinical sign or symptoms of changes in normal healthy state
resulting from one individual accident, including directly or indirectly related
problems, no matter where these are noticed or occur in or on your pet.
Recurring and/or chronic injuries shall be considered as one loss.
Illness/illnesses  Changes in your pets state of health that are not caused 
by an accident, or any which may be resulting from gradual or biological 
cause.
Theres no dispute Mrs Ws policy started on 29 May 2021 and she first noticed her 
dog was limping on 3 June 2021 so that was four days into the policy starting. In 
order for this to be covered under this policy, it needs to be classed as an injury 
caused by an accident.
I appreciate Mrs Ws vet said it was an accidental injury, but she has produced little 
or no evidence to back this up. The claim form stated the dog was limping from 4 
June 2021 to the 20 July 2021. And in the vet history for the 4 June 2021 it says the 
following:
PE: 4/10ths lame left hind. Pain on manipulation of stifle and possible cranial 
drawer. BAR, mms pink, teeth ok, NAD cardiothoracic auscultation and abdo 
palpation, bcs 2.5/5 First L4 given. 2nd in 4 weeks. Possible cruciate injury. 
Advised initially strict rest (10 min lead walks TID only) alongside meloxicam. 
Re-check one week.
On 11 June 2021 the vet history says the following:
O reports no change in lameness with a weeks rest and meloxicam. On 
exam today still ~ 4/10ths lame and painful on manipulation of stifle. 
Suspicion of cranial drawer but not certain.
Recommend GA and x-rays. discussed potential cruciate rupture and that if 
this is the case we ususually recommend surgery for dogs >10kg. O not able 
to afford. Insurance likely wont cover as Bess was lame when taken out. O 
feels very upset that charity didnt mention the lameness which she feels was 
already present. Recommend continue conservative tx. Only 10 min lead 
walks TID at the moment. Continue melox and suggest add in 1/4 of a 500mg 
paracetomol tablet BID. See back in 2 weeks.
On 22 June 2021 the vet sent this email to Mrs W:Email to owner:
Dear Mrs W,
I am just writing to let you know that I have spoken to Louise Pittman from the 
charity you received [name of dog] from. She has said that [name of dog] had 
no lameness in her time with them. She also confirmed that [name of dog] 
has had the 4DX infectious disease test which was all clear. She mentioned 
that the insurance would have been put in place before you collected [name 
of dog] and therefore she is hoping that this problem will be covered by them. 
Is this something you can check?
How is Bess getting along?
Kind regards,
On 16 July 2021 the vet history said the following:
crepitus and pain on manipulation of LH. Disc xrays again, o looking into
insurance.
There is no further vet history available. We did ask Mrs W what the present situation 
with her dog was, and she said her dog still limped intermittently probably less now 
than back in last July. She has been on ongoing anti-inflammatory medication 
prescribed by the vet. In the last month or so they have stopped the anti-
inflammatory medication and Mrs W said her dog has remained the same without it.
The available vet history shows me that the vet initially wanted to investigate cruciate
ligament issues being the cause of Mrs Ws dog limping. Its very that rare cruciate 
ligament issues can be considered an accidental injury as the cause of most of these 
issues tends to be a disease process. So, if that was the case (which isnt at all 
certain on the evidence available) then it couldnt be covered by this policy since it 
first started within the first 14 days. Its notable however that Mrs Ws dog hasnt got 
worse since and neither has her condition warranted much further intervention from 
the vet. With cruciate ligament issues, the matter is more normally progressive, which 
doesnt appear to have happened here over this last year.
I dont consider there is enough evidence to show this was or wasnt an accidental 
injury. If there was any further evidence to provide to West Bay to support that it was 
an accidental injury, then I would expect West Bay reconsider to it. So, I consider it is 
now for Mrs W and her vet to provide evidence to support and show that it was an 
accidental injury if Mrs W wishes to continue with her claim, which is her sole 
decision to make. But on this basis currently, I dont consider West Bay needs to do 
anything more.
West Bay said it had nothing further to add. Mrs W responded as follows:
We visited the vet again on 19/07/22 and discussed [name of dogs] injury. The vet 
agrees that [name of dog] is very likely to have injured her leg jumping out of my car, 
or jumping down from the patio, both of which she had done on 3rd June. 
The vet manipulated both of [name of dogs] hind legs, whilst doing this [name of 
dog] showed no indication of any discomfort. The vet reiterated that there is some 
injury/possible crepitus in the left hind leg which could possibly lead to stiffness in the 
future, so she has suggested [name of dog] is put on joint supplements. 
The vet suggested that she could only confirm what injury [name of dog] has 
sustained if she is X-rayed, we discussed X-rays again and I was informed the price 
has now gone up from £700 to over £850. This is because the vet wants to X-ray 
both legs to compare them and she would need to sedate [name of dog]. As the ombudsman suggested, [name of dogs] injury is very unlikely to be cruciate-
related as [name of dogs] condition has not deteriorated at all, if anything it has 
improved as she does not limp very often at all. Therefore, I could have [name of 
dog] X-rayed simply to confirm that she has sustained an injury (on 3rd June) and 
this injury is likely to lead to her developing joint stiffness at some point in the future. I 
cannot afford to pay almost £1,000 to confirm something which the vet already 
believes to be the case. 
We did not initially go with the vet's suggestion of X-rays as I was informed by a lady 
at the vets who dealt with the  insurance claims that we should put the initial claim in 
to ensure the insurance company are covering [name of dog] anti-inflammatories for 
her accidental injury on 03/06/21 and then if needed, an X-ray could be done at a 
later date which we could also claim for. However, the insurance company didn't 
cover the claim for the anti-inflammatories for [name of dog] injury, despite the 
accidental injury occurring over 48 hours after the policy started. The policy started 
29/05/21 and [name of dog] accidently injured herself on 03/06/21 so according to 
the insurance company's own policy wording, [name of dog] accidental injury should 
have been covered. 
I took out the pet insurance in good faith as suggested by the rescue charity to cover 
[name of dog] for illness and injury. [Name of dog] did not limp for any of the first 
days that we had her and the rescue charity have confirmed that she had no limp 
whatsoever in her time with them. [Name of dog] suddenly starting limping on 3rd 
June 2021 and she had, on that day, jumped out of the car and off the patio, which I 
assume is when she must have hurt her leg. I find it incredulous that the facts are not 
being considered and the insurance company are being allowed to play on the words 
that the vet has written (which were assumptions), even though the vet has later 
corrected her assumptions in her notes after speaking to the rescue charity. The vet 
has concluded that she feels [name of dog] has sustained an accidental injury, not an 
illness. If [name of dog] had an illness, she would have deteriorated, she has not 
deteriorated.
[Name of dog] sustained an injury on 3rd June 2021, she has not been diagnosed 
with an illness; there has never been any suggestion whatsoever from the vet that 
this could be an illness. The vet is the professional forming the opinion here and she 
has concluded that [name of dog] has sustained an accidental injury. Therefore, 
according to the policy wording, [name of dog] injury should be covered as it 
occurred over 48 hours after the policy started.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, what Mrs W has now said suggests there is further evidence 
available from her own vet as to her opinion that given the passage of time, her vet is of the 
view that Mrs Ws dog suffered an injury on 3 June. However West Bay has yet to see the 
later vet history or indeed the further considered opinion of Mrs Ws vet. And it needs to do 
so, in order to reconsider Mrs Ws situation. 
Pet policies rarely pre-authorise the costs of any claim to be made as the limit of indemnity is 
that if the claim is valid the vet costs are covered, but if it is not, the vet costs arent covered. 
So, what is insured is the vet costs incurred for investigating or treating a condition, not necessarily the costs before they are incurred. Therefore, I dont consider Mrs W affordability 
of x-ray costs to be relevant here. It is always for the policyholder to prove their claim, which 
if valid the insurer covers in accordance with the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
I remain by the decision reached in the provisional decision that what happened to Mrs Ws 
dog was not pre-existing. West Bay refused to deal at all with Mrs Ws claim on the basis of 
the initial vet history pointing towards the fact that it was pre-existing, and it refused to 
consider the vets amendment of the history following further discussions with the rescue 
centre. I remain of the view that was wrong given the very particular circumstances of this 
complaint. 
  
So, it now remains for Mrs W and her vet to forward this further evidence and indeed the 
vets present opinion on the matter to West Bay so it can reconsider  the initial claim within 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. This is because Im still of the view there 
simply wasnt enough evidence presented initially to determine whether the dog had suffered 
an injury instead of an illness like cruciate ligament disease, given the entries in the vet 
history discussing the possibility of cruciate ligament disease. Clearly on what Mrs W is now 
saying, it does appear more likely this claim didnt emanate from an illness, since there 
appears to be no progression of that illness.
But its not my role here at this stage, to determine a claim on evidence which neither West 
Bay nor indeed myself have seen. So, as I explained in my provisional decision, its now for 
Mrs W and her vet to present this further evidence for West Bays reconsideration.  
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part.
The claim is not pre-existing as in occurring before the policy start of 29 May 2021.
If West Bay Insurance Plc receives further evidence (as now detailed by Mrs W) to 
support that the claim was caused by an accidental injury (so thereby covered by 
under this policy since it was noticed after the expiry of 48 hours from the policy 
starting), I would expect West Bay Insurance Plc to reconsider it within the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
If there is no further evidence provided, then I dont consider West Bay Insurance Plc 
needs to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman