DRN-3611119
The complaint
K, a limited company, complains that Smart Currency Exchange Limited wont refund the 
money it lost when it was the victim of a scam.
What happened
K is a limited company and, in April 2021, it contacted Smart Currency Exchange Limited 
(SCE) to arrange the payment of invoices to two foreign suppliers. K and SCE agreed a 
contract for the payment of the invoices and SCE emailed K confirming where K should send 
the money for the payment and asking it to confirm the details of the invoices to be paid.
K then emailed copies of the invoices and details of the bank details for the suppliers to 
SCE. But it appears that Ks emails had been compromised and scammers were able to 
intercept this email and send a fake email to SCE, with a fake invoice and different bank 
details for one of the suppliers. SCE called K to check the payment details and K said to 
check the payment details matched the invoices it had sent. SCE then made the payments 
in line with the invoices it had received, and so one of the payments  for  €18,068, was 
made to the bank details the scammers had emailed to SCE, rather than the details K had 
intended.
The scam was uncovered after one of the suppliers told K it hadnt received the payment for 
the invoice. K asked SCE to confirm the bank details the payment had been sent to and it 
was discovered the bank details didnt match those on Ks original invoice. K had to make a 
second payment to the supplier, and complained to SCE about the scam and asked it to 
refund the money it had lost.
SCE investigated Ks complaint but said it had made the payment in line with the instructions 
it had received and had checked the payment details with K before making the payment. So 
it didnt agree it had acted unfairly and didnt agree to refund the money K had lost. K wasnt 
satisfied with SCEs response, so referred its complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They felt SCE should have done more to 
try to avoid the risk of the scam and that, if it had done so, K wouldnt have lost the money. 
So they felt SCE should refund the money K lost. SCE didnt agree with our investigator, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a payment service provider is expected to 
process payments that a customer instructs it to make. And a customer will then be 
responsible for those transactions that they have authorised.
But the regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement 
for payment service providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And 
this includes monitoring transactions to look out for activity that might suggest a customer 
was at risk of financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and 
trying to prevent customers falling victims to scams. So Ive also thought about whether SCE 
did enough to try to keep Ks money safe.
SCE called K to check the payment details were correct, so there was a direct interaction 
between K and SCE and a clear opportunity for SCE to ask questions before processing the 
payment. SCE has said that, where it receives payment details by email, it will then call the 
customer to confirm them before making the payment  and it appears that this is done, at 
least in part, to combat the risk of incorrect payment details being given in the email.
But having listened to the call between SCE and K, I dont think SCE asked clear enough 
questions or explained the risks to K clearly enough to address this risk. In the call, SCE 
says it needs to confirm the payment details over the phone. But it doesnt then read out or 
confirm any of the details it has or ask K to confirm the details from another source, such as 
the original invoice. It didnt explain the possible risks of invoices being intercepted or 
incorrect payment details being given and it didnt give any examples of steps K could take 
to avoid these risks. And it accepts K just asking it to use the payment details from the email. 
And if a customer can just ask to use the payment details from the email, I cant see that the 
call to confirm the details serves any real purpose. So, having made the phone call to 
confirm the payment details, I think SCE should have done more in this call to help protect K.
If SCE had explained the possible risks or asked K to confirm the payment details from 
another source, as I think it should have done, I think the scam here would have been 
uncovered and the money wouldnt have been sent to the incorrect details. And so I think 
SCE should refund the money K lost as a result of this scam.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Smart Currency 
Exchange Limited to:
Refund K the €18,068 it lost as a result of this scam
Pay 8% simple interest on that refund from the date of the payment until the date of 
settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022. Alan Millward
Ombudsman