DRN-2322693
The complaint
Mr B complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down his personal 
accident claim.
Ill refer to any agents acting on behalf of Aviva, as Aviva throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr B is covered under his employers group personal accident policy. After injuring his 
hand in an accident, he notified Aviva of the injury.
Aviva assessed the claim against the policy benefits, but it didnt think Mr B had a 
valid claim. Unhappy with this, Mr B brought a complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 October 2020. My provisional findings were:
The policy provides cover in the event of death; permanent total disablement; 
capital benefits; quadriplegia/paraplegia/herniplegia/triplegia; and total incurable 
insanity.
Mr Bs injury doesnt fit into any of the above. Capital benefits is defined as shall 
include Loss of Hearing, Loss of Limb, Loss of Sight, Loss of Speech, and Permanent 
Total Disablement. Mr Bs injury also doesnt fall under any of these.
However, the policy also includes cover for permanent partial disablement, and will pay 
a percentage of the total capital benefits sum assured (the sum assured being 
£250,000) in the event of such disablement.
The policy says the following about permanent partial disablement:
In the event of an Insured Person suffering permanent disablement as a direct result of 
Bodily Injury We will pay a percentage of the benefit provided for Capital Benefits 
depending on the degree of permanent disablement. Benefits for specific disabilities 
are: Permanent severance or permanent and total loss of use of (the policy then lists a 
number of injuries, together with the percentage of the benefit payable for each injury).
Any permanent disability which is not covered by Capital Benefits or any of the 
benefits above (those being the listed injuries and benefits) up to a maximum 100% 
of the Capital Benefits sum insured. Any permanent disability under this item will be 
assessed by considering the severity of the disablement in conjunction with the 
stated percentages for specific types of permanent disablement stated above. The 
occupation of the Insured Person will not be taken into consideration during this 
assessment.
Mr Bs injury doesnt meet any of the listed injuries in the policy. Therefore, for a 
permanent partial disablement claim to be payable, first, his injury would need to be a 
permanent disability. If it is, then to work out how much benefit might be payable, the 
severity of Mr Bs injury would need to be compared to the injuries listed in the policy and 
the percentage of benefit attributable to those injuries.
In Mr Bs case, he had surgery to remove a foreign object in his hand, though the 
object couldnt be removed. Following that, he had some physio sessions. Mr Bs 
physio said:
He [Mr B] had begun to start normalising activities, the main issue being scar 
sensitivity, especially with contact pressure of the hand  such as shaking hands or 
holding the steering wheel, and generalised tightness/instability feeling of the hand.
The physio confirmed that, on examination, Mr B showed slight hypersensitivity of the 
scar area; stiff distal radioulnar joint and carpal rows; strong forearm triggers; full active 
range of motion of wrist and fingers  end of range stiffness, reduced range of movement 
with stiff end feel of thumb; grip strength 90/90/80 lbs of pressure (predicted normal 
range was more than 125).
The physio then explained she had two further sessions with Mr B and, at their final 
session, Mr B reported very good progress, generally good [active range of motion] and 
activity return, however feeling that the hand cant quite stretch enough especially through 
the palm in the position of the scar She also said Mr Bs grip strength was retested and 
normalised. The physio confirmed that she didnt have any further plans to see Mr B.
Its apparent from the physios evidence that Mr Bs injury improved whilst he was 
having treatment. However, after the treatment ended, it seems he was still 
experiencing some problems with his hand. Mr B says he continues to experience 
problems, and that he cant use his hand for long periods as it cramps and becomes 
sore quickly.
I think an appropriate outcome here would be for Aviva to arrange for Mr B to attend an 
independent medical examination to see if he has a permanent disability and to assess 
any loss of function. I see that Aviva has confirmed to this service that it would be willing 
to do this. Aviva can then decide whether a percentage of the capital benefits sum 
assured should be payable, taking into account how Mr Bs injury compares to the listed 
injuries in the policy and the percentage of benefit attributable to those injuries.
Mr B says that if the claim isnt paid, then the policy has been mis-sold. However, this is 
a group scheme and so the policy wasnt sold to Mr B, it was sold to his employer in its 
capacity as the policyholder. Mr B therefore isnt eligible to bring a complaint to this 
service about the sale of the policy. If he had concerns about the way the policy was 
described to him before taking it out, he should raise these with his employer.
The policy also provides some extended benefits, such as physio, hospitalisation and 
convalescence. Physio cover is payable after broken bones or dislocation, which Mr B 
didnt have. Hospitalisation is payable if the insured is admitted as an in-patient, but I 
understand Mr Bs hospital treatment took place on an out-patient basis. Convalescence 
is only payable if the insured has a valid claim for hospitalisation, which Mr B doesnt. Im 
therefore satisfied it was appropriate for Aviva not to make payments under these 
sections of cover.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make. 
Aviva responded to say it accepted my decision. 
Mr B responded to say he would agree to have an independent examination, as his affected thumb only moves about half as far as the other one. However, he would like me 
to explain why his claim isnt covered when his injury meets the defintion of an accidental 
injury and isnt specifically excluded by the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has questioned why his claim isnt covered when he meets the definition of accidental 
injury and his injury isnt specifically excluded by the policy. 
It might be helpful if I explain that the policy document needs to be read as a whole. I agree 
that Mr B had an accidental injury. But the policy doesnt say it will pay benefit in the event of 
accidental injury. It says it will pay benefit in the event of accidental injury which results in 
any of the benefits for death, permanent total disablement, or capital benefits. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Mr Bs injury doesnt fall under any of these. It therefore 
doesnt matter that Mr Bs injury isnt excluded  for the claim to be payable, it must fall 
under the cover offered under the policy. 
In addition to death, permanent total disablement, and capital benefits, the policy also 
provides various extensions of cover, including permanent partial disablement. Mr Bs claim 
has been considered under this section of the policy as he could potentially have a valid 
claim under it. 
As both Mr B and Aviva are in agreement that he should attend an independent medical 
examination, I see no reason to alter my provisional findings.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to 
arrange for Mr B to attend an independent medical examination to establish if he has a 
permanent disability and to assess any loss of function to his hand. It should then make 
a new claims decision, based upon that information.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman