DRN-2735500
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the insurance premium Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) charged
him when renewing his travel insurance policy in January 2020.
Ive referred to URV throughout as its the underwriter of the travel insurance policy
complained about and its also responsible for pricing the policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 March 2021 explaining why I was 
intending to partially uphold it - part of which is copied below:
Mr W had the benefit of a worldwide (excluding the USA, Canada and the Caribbean) 
annual gold travel insurance policy which was underwritten by URV. That was due to end at 
the end of December 2019.
Mr W sought to renew that policy. After contacting the relevant department to make a
medical declaration, Mr W was quoted an additional £203.03 to cover his pre-existing
medical conditions on top of the basic premium (£174.57), which included cruise cover as an
optional add-on. His additional excess was £600. That was over £150 higher than the
additional premium Mr W had paid the year before to cover his pre-existing medical
conditions.
Mr W was very unhappy with the increase to his additional premium and additional excess.
And he complained to URV.
URV didnt uphold his complaint. It explained that it considers several factors when pricing
travel insurance policies. URV said that the way in which rates are calculated had changed
since Mr W had last taken out the policy. And that when a policy is due to be renewed its
worth researching other policies as prices can vary across the industry. However, as a
gesture of goodwill, it did offer to pay £20 to Mr W.
Mr W declined the offer of £20. And, unhappy, he complained to our Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. She said URV had calculated his premium
fairly and in the same way as it wouldve with any of its customers with similar circumstances
to Mr W. 
Mr W disagreed. So, his complaint has been passed to me to look at everything afresh and
decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to partially 
uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mr W was surprised upon being notified of the quote for the additional
premium and the increase in the additional excess. It was significantly higher than the
additional premium and additional excess hed been quoted the year before.
For commercial reasons, URV has explained that it changed the way it calculated premiums
for the type of travel insurance policy Mr W has.
Its not the role of our Service to tell an insurer what criteria it should use when pricing an
insurance policy  or which weighting it should apply to a certain criterion when calculating
insurance premiums. Those are commercial, business decisions for it to make.
But our Service can consider whether an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably when
calculating the insurance premium for individual customers, given their individual
circumstances.
URV has provided our Service with the criteria it has in place when pricing the travel
insurance policy Mr W took out  and the weighting it applies to certain criteria. Because of
the commercially sensitive nature of this information it has asked that we dont disclose it.
Im satisfied that this is genuinely commercially sensitive information and can be accepted -
and considered - by us in confidence. Although I do note that URV has provided Mr W with
some details of the factors it considers in its final response letter to him dated February
2020.
Ive seen that URV takes into account several factors when pricing a policy like the one
Mr W has. And having carefully considered the criteria and the scoring parameters of that
criteria, I didnt think URV had applied the correct multiplier to one of its calculations when
working out the additional premium Mr W paid in January 2020, based on its own
information.
I asked our investigator to clarify that with URV. By way of an email dated 24 Mach 2021,
URV has accepted that it did use the wrong multiplier in one part of the calculation when
working out the cost of the additional premium. Im satisfied that using the correct multiplier,
as URV shouldve, reduces the additional premium Mr W paid for the policy from £203.03 to
£180.66.
However, apart from that error Im satisfied that URV has priced the policy (both the basic
premium and the additional premium), in line with the criteria accurately.
When provisionally making this finding, Ive considered what Mr W says about having not
made a claim on the policy previously and hed declared similar information about his
medical conditions in the past. But, apart from the error set out above, Im not persuaded this
means URV hasnt applied the pricing criteria it has in place for this type of policy fairly and
reasonably.
Mr W has also asked how many other policyholders of URV have been subjected to steep
premium increases. However, Im looking at the circumstances of Mr Ws complaint.
Im persuaded that the increase in cost was partly down to the increased weighting applied
because of Mr Ws age. And I think thats a reasonable and proportionate response to the
statistical risk that he posed based on URVs claims data.
The statistical data Ive seen supports that someone in Mr Ws age category is more likely to
make a claim on their travel insurance. And further, the average cost of a claim, if made, is
likely to be higher in Mr Ws age category.The statistical information relied on by URV, is based on its own claims data and is made up
of a large sample over a significant period. And Im satisfied URV reasonably relied on that
here. And for the same reasons, Im also satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for URV to
increase the additional excess to £600 from £450.
Im also conscious that Mr W wasnt required to renew his policy with URV in 2020 or accept
the premium he was quoted. He was aware of the premium increase, and increase in
additional excess, but chose to renew the policy on that basis. I appreciate that Mr W might
not have felt he had enough time to look for a travel insurance policy elsewhere. However,
the policy terms say that he couldve cancelled the policy within 14 days from the start date
without incurring a charge. So, even if he didnt feel like he had enough time to search for an
alternative travel insurance policy before taking out the policy with URV, he had a further 14
days to find another policy at a more competitive price if he wanted.
Mr W also says that hes unhappy that he had to contact a number of companies when
dealing with the issue of the increase of premium. I can see why this may have been
frustrating for him, particularly given the circumstances hes described. But its not unusual
for different parties to be privy to an insurance policy; including the underwriter and
administrator of the policy. So, I dont think URV did anything wrong.
In any event, I note that URV has offered £20 a gesture of goodwill to Mr W. Although, that
wasnt directly linked to him having to contact different companies, it was a goodwill gesture.
I think that sum fairly reflects any inconvenience experienced by Mr W, having to contact
different parties to get an answer to his queries. I understand that Mr W declined that offer
but if he now wishes to accept, he should contact URV directly, and without delay.
In order to put things right, I said I intended to direct URV to pay Mr W £22.37 to reflect the 
difference between what he paid and what he shouldve paid for the additional premium had 
URV not made an error in the calculation together with simple interest.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider. Mr W and URV have both confirmed that they 
accept my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accept my provisional decision  and neither party has made any comments 
or provided any further evidence in response to my proposed findings - Im satisfied that 
theres no reason for me to reach a different outcome.
So, for the reasons explained in my provisional decision  which Ive set out above  I 
partially uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Putting things right
I direct URV to pay Mr W:
(i) £22.37 which reflects the difference between what he paid and what he shouldve
paid for the additional premium had URV not made an error in the calculation; and(ii) simple interest at a rate of 8% per year* on the amount in (i) from the date on
which he paid for the policy to the date on which URV makes payments of that
amount.
*If URV considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any
interest paid, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give him a
certificate showing this if Mr W asks for one. That way he can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Ws complaint. I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right 
by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Linda Tare
Ombudsman