DRN-2794627
The complaint
Mr N complains he was mis-sold a reviewable whole of life policy by a company that has 
since been acquired by ReAssure Limited. He says he was led to believe hed be able to 
reduce his monthly premiums if he decided to reduce his cover.
This complaint has largely been brought by Mr Ns wife, Mrs N, but for simplicity Ill refer
mostly to Mr N.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to all parties. So I dont intend to repeat it in 
detail here, save to set out the key events that led to this complaint.
Mr N took out a LifeStages Plan with Critical Illness Cover in 1996. He said he took out the 
policy because it offered the flexibility to increase or decrease the sum assured in later 
years. He believed this flexibility also extended to the monthly premium.
In November 2019 Mr N asked ReAssure to reduce his monthly premium to £50. He was 
disappointed when ReAssure advised him that only the sum assured could be reduced but 
that the premium would remain the same.
Mr N complained to ReAssure that the policy had been mis-sold to him. He said he was led 
to believe, when the policy was sold, that hed be able to reduce his monthly premium in the 
later years when his need for cover reduced. He also noted that the terms and conditions 
didnt say premiums couldnt be reduced.
ReAssure rejected Mr Ns complaint. It noted the terms and conditions didnt say that
premiums could be reduced. But it said the terms and conditions could only be expected to
detail what the policy could do, rather than everything it couldnt do. ReAssure also
explained how the policy worked and how it could be advantageous to reduce the sum
assured, even though the premium stayed the same. Without evidence of what happened at
the time of the sale, it didnt comment on Mr Ns assertion that hed been told he could
reduce his premiums. Instead ReAssure concluded that the policy documentation was
sufficiently clear.
Unhappy with this answer, Mr N referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She considered the policy terms and conditions 
were sufficiently clear that only the sum assured could be changed.
Mr N disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. He said he was misled at the 
point of sale to think the policy offered more flexibility than it does. He says if he was advised 
properly, he wouldnt have taken out the policy.
Separately, Mrs N complained about the sale of her policy and about information she 
received in 2017. While I dont intend to go into detail about Mrs Ns complaint, its relevant 
to note that Ive decided that she was incorrectly reassured by a complaint handler (who Ill 
refer to as Mr S) that her premiums would go down if she opted to reduce her sum 
assured. I found that, had Mrs N not been given this inaccurate information, shed likely have 
surrendered her policy in September 2019, when their children left school and her need for 
cover changed. So, Ive decided that ReAssure should treat the policy as though it were 
surrendered in September 2019; pay Mrs N the surrender value that wouldve applied at the 
time and refund the premiums paid, less £50 a month that she was willing to spend on 
alternative cover. I also said ReAssure should pay Mrs N £200 compensation to reflect the 
trouble and upset she experienced in pursuing her complaint.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on 19 April 2021, partially upholding Mr Ns complaint. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently minded to partially uphold this complaint. I want to give all 
parties an opportunity to consider my findings and comment before I reach a final decision.
Sale of the policy in 1996
Having carefully considered the available evidence, I cant reasonably conclude Mr N was 
actively misled about the flexibility offered by the policy. The policy documentation correctly
sets out that cover can be increased or decreased. But I think the policy documentation
couldve been clearer that premiums couldnt be reduced in line with the cover. I think this
omission contributed to the misunderstanding that has led to this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions are silent on the issue of what happens to the monthly
premiums if the policyholder opts to reduce their level of cover under the "Variation of Cover"
section of the plan. ReAssure said that while the terms and conditions detail the options 
available to the policyholder, its impossible to list everything the policy doesnt provide.
While I accept this as a general principle, I don't think it can reasonably be applied to the
premium in this scenario.
I think it was wholly reasonable, and foreseeable, for a consumer to expect their monthly
premiums to be reduced if they opted to reduce their cover - just as they should reasonably
assume that the premium would increase if they increased their cover. While ReAssure is of
course free to determine that the policy will operate differently from this, it wouldve been
preferable for this to be outlined within the terms and conditions to avoid confusion caused
by this ambiguity. While Mr and Mrs N have suggested this omission from the policy terms
and conditions was designed to mislead, I havent seen any evidence to persuade me this
was the case.
In bringing this complaint Mr N posed the question why would you reduce the sum assured
if you cant reduce the premium? I understand this logic and think it would be shared by
many consumers.
The policy was sold on the basis that it was for lifestyle/family protection and shouldnt be
looked on as an investment vehicle. So, I can understand why Mr N believed the premium 
payable would broadly reflect his chosen level of cover, as he wasnt anticipating receiving 
any return from the policy.
But while I agree the policy documentation wasnt sufficiently clear, I must consider what
difference this wouldve made to Mr Ns decision to take out the policy.Mr N said that had he understood he wouldnt later be able to reduce his premiums, he
wouldve rejected the recommendation for cover and gone elsewhere. Having considered
everything, Im not persuaded this was the most likely course of action at the time.
While its impossible to know for certain what wouldve happened, having weighed
everything up, I think its most likely Mr N wouldve still accepted the advisers 
recommendation. I say this because his priority at the time of sale was to provide financial
security for his family should he die or suffer a critical illness within an unspecified period.
The policy offered this protection within a budget he could afford.
I accept flexibility was an attractive feature of cover, especially the idea of reducing the
premium in later years. But I cant see it was more important than his primary
need for family protection. Im not aware of another policy, available at the time, that
wouldve better suited Mr Ns needs. So, Im not persuaded Mr N wouldve rejected the
advisers recommendations had it been clearly explained he couldnt reduce his premiums in
later years.
Im also mindful the policy has provided Mr N with valuable protection for the last 25 years.
While I appreciate the need to reduce his premium currently feels like a pressing concern, I
cant say it was more important at the time of taking out cover, than providing protection for
his family for the last 25 years.
Impact of Mrs Ns complaint
In my provisional decision on Mrs Ns related complaint, I explained that, on balance, I was
persuaded shed been incorrectly reassured by Mr S during a 2017 telephone call that her
premiums would go down if she later opted to reduce her cover. I was also persuaded that,
had Mrs N not been reassured in this way, she would most likely have surrendered her
policy and taken out alternative cover elsewhere.
Given that Mr and Mrs N considered their policies in tandem, Im satisfied that Mr N wouldve
taken the same action as Mrs N when it was discovered the policies didnt offer flexibility in
terms of reducing the policy premiums.
The evidence supports that Mr and Mrs Ns intentions had been to reduce their monthly
premiums. This was the reason for contacting ReAssure in 2019. As this couldnt be
achieved with their existing policies, Im persuaded they would most likely have surrendered
their policies and sought alternative cover elsewhere. Whats less clear is when theyd have
taken this action.
I concluded that Mr and Mrs N wouldnt have surrendered their cover in 2017. Mrs N had
explained they valued having cover in place while their children were in education. The
evidence also suggested that when Mrs N made contact with ReAssure in 2017 she was
planning for the future and hadnt necessarily determined to reduce her cover at that time.
But in November 2019 Mr and Mrs N wrote to ReAssure asking to reduce their premiums to
£50 and the level of cover accordingly. This coincided with their youngest children going to
university and was within the two-month window before the policy anniversary in
January 2020, when they believed changes could be made to the policies.
Its impossible to know with any certainty exactly what Mr and Mrs N wouldve done had
Mrs N been told by Mr S in 2017 that the premiums couldnt be reduced. But, on balance, I
concluded its most likely they wouldve kept their cover in place until September 2019, when
their children left school. At this point I think they would most likely have surrendered their
policies and taken out cover that better suited their needs at that time.Mr and Mrs Ns letters to ReAssure in November 2019 suggest their priority at the time was
to reduce their premiums to a level they considered to be more affordable in the long term
(£50 a month), rather than to secure a particular level of cover.
In view of this, I asked ReAssure to treat the policy as though it were surrendered in
September 2019. I selected this date as I think Mr and Mrs N would reasonably have wanted
to obtain more suitable cover as soon as possible once their circumstances changed. As
they could have surrendered their policies at any time, without notice, I think its reasonable
to assume theyd have done it in September 2019.
So I think ReAssure should pay Mr N the surrender value that wouldve applied at the time.
For simplicity, and to allow ReAssure to reach an accurate calculation, I think it can use
30 September 2019 as the surrender date. It should also refund the premiums Mr N paid,
less the £50 a month he was willing to spend on alternative cover, from 30 September 2019
to date. To this it should add interest (less any tax properly deductible) at the simple rate of
8% per year from the date each premium was paid to the date of settlement.
Compensation for trouble and upset
Mr N has asked that I award him compensation for the trouble and upset hes experienced
while pursuing the complaint. Hes explained that, while he hasnt actively pursued the
complaint, hes faced the same frustrations as Mrs N.
I dont doubt that Mr N has been frustrated while awaiting an outcome to this complaint,
which has unfortunately become protracted. Im also mindful that it must be concerning to
see the impact the complaint has had on his wife. So Im minded to direct ReAssure to pay
Mr N £100 compensation in recognition of the trouble and upset hes experienced.
I should note that this is less than the award I made in relation to Mrs N. When considering
her award I was mindful of the specific difficulties shed experienced in dealing with the
complaint, and the way certain members of staff had made her feel.
Responses to my provisional decision 
ReAssure accepted my provisional decision without further comment. 
Mr N was grateful for some of my findings, but overall disagreed with my conclusions. He 
maintained that hed been financially disadvantaged by paying higher policy premiums on 
the basis that he believed the policy offered greater flexibility than it does. He also disagreed 
with my conclusions that he would have waited until 2019 to surrender his policy.
Mr N said the level of compensation I awarded in respect of his trouble and upset was 
derisory. He noted the number of hours that had been spent pursuing the complaint and the 
upset hed experienced, particularly seeing the distress caused to Mrs N. He also noted that 
ReAssure had compounded their upset and frustration when it incorrectly took an increased 
premium in respect of the policy. Mr N noted the potential problems that could have arisen 
from this had it caused them to go overdrawn. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ns strength of feeling about this complaint. But, having considered 
everything afresh, Ive reached the same conclusions as I set out in my provisional decision. Its impossible to know with any certainty what would have happened had Mr N been given 
clearer information in 1996 or if Mrs N had not been misadvised in 2017. But I must weigh up 
all the available evidence to decide what I think was most likely. I must do this without the 
benefit of hindsight. 
While I note Mr Ns concerns about the cost of premiums, Ive not been persuaded that hed 
have done anything differently at the point of sale. I accept flexibility was appealing to Mr N, 
but I cant say the evidence from the time of the sale indicates it was his main objective. The 
evidence supports he was looking for family protection for an unspecified period of time. A 
whole of life policy was a reasonable recommendation to address this need at the time. And 
I think its most likely Mr N would have accepted this recommendation, even if hed known 
his premiums couldnt be reduced in the future. 
Again, I cant know for certain what Mr N wouldve done had Mrs N been clearly advised by 
Mr S in 2017 that her premiums couldnt go down. But I think the weight of evidence 
indicates hed most likely have waited before surrendering his policy. The evidence supports 
that Mr and Mrs N had a need for the full protection offered by the policy until their children 
left education, this didnt happen until 2019. I also considered what Mrs N had said to 
ReAssure both when she enquired about changing her cover and when she made her 
complaint. In view of all the evidence, I remain of the opinion that its fair to both parties to 
assume 30 September 2019 as the date Mr N would most likely have surrendered the policy. 
Ive carefully considered the additional points Mr N has made regarding the trouble and 
upset he faced pursuing his complaint, but Im not minded to increase the award I previously 
set out. While Ive taken into consideration the amount of time thats been spent pursuing 
this complaint, the compensation shouldnt be viewed as payment for Mr or Mrs Ns time. I 
also cant award compensation to Mr N for the time Mrs N spent pursuing the complaint. Ive 
also noted the frustration Mr N experienced when ReAssure took an increased premium for 
the policy without his consent. But as this happened after he brought his complaint to our 
service its technically outside the remit of this complaint. But even if I could consider it, I 
couldnt make any award for problems that could have arisen from the error. Taking 
everything into account, I still consider £100 is appropriate compensation in the 
circumstances.  
Putting things right
In view of my findings above, I consider a fair and reasonable outcome would be for 
ReAssure to put Mr N in the position he would have been in had he surrendered his policy 
on 30 September 2019. To do so it should:
Refund the premiums Mr N has paid towards the policy since 30 September 2019, 
less £50 a month. To this it should add interest (less any tax properly deductible) at 
the simple rate of 8% per year from the date each premium was paid to the date of 
settlement.
Pay him the surrender value that would have applied on 30 September 2019, plus 
interest (less any tax properly deductible) at the simple rate of 8% per year.
Pay him £100 compensation.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct ReAssure Limited to pay compensation as set out above.     Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman