DRN-3645880
The complaint
Mr T complains about a decision by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to reject a claim 
he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr T, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit 
Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a 
like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Misrepresentation
If Mr T was given a false statement of fact that led him to make a purchase he wouldnt 
otherwise have made I may think the sale had been misrepresented to him and ask Halifax 
to take some action to put things right.
Mr T suggests that he was told the paving slabs were charcoal but that he now suspects 
they are light grey. I dont think I have sufficient evidence of that. The manufacturers 
representative thought the product was charcoal when he visited to inspect the goods, and 
whilst I have seen photographs Mr T has provided of the laid paving I dont think that 
adequately demonstrates the colour is not what was ordered or that there has therefore 
been a misrepresentation.
Breach of contract
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the goods should 
have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. The relevant law also says the quality of 
goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. 
Mr T was able to inspect the paving flags before he laid them. I understand that at least 
some of the flags may have been wet then and would appear a different colour when dry. 
But I think its reasonable to expect a consumer to realise colour will likely change when the 
product is dry and to have therefore checked the flags in a dry condition before laying them. I 
think its fair to suggest Mr T ought to have realised the goods were not the colour he 
expected and I dont think its fair to suggest theres been a breach of contract in those 
circumstances as I think Mr T showed acceptance of the flags colour by allowing them to be 
laid.
The manufacturer suggested the colour variation was due to efflorescence and that the 
efflorescence would fade with time. I dont think I have sufficient evidence to suggest that the 
presence of efflorescence makes the flag stones of unsatisfactory quality. Its an issue that 
the manufacturer has explained will affect all of its products and that online research 
suggests is likely to clear over time.
The contract allowed Mr T to return the goods within 14 days but only if they were returned 
in a resalable condition. That couldnt be the case here as the flags had already been 
unpacked and laid. I dont think the merchant were accepting responsibility for a fault with 
the goods when they explained that to Mr T; they were explaining his rights under the terms 
and conditions of sale.
So, I dont think there is sufficient evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation here 
and as a result I dont think Halifax were unreasonable to reject Mr Ts section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman