DRN-4303394
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) changed the mobile phone insurance 
provided by his Platinum account, so that it no longer provided new for old cover.
Mr P says Lloyds failed to make it clear that in the event of a valid claim for a replacement 
handset, the insurer would provide a refurbished device.
What happened
Mr P purchased a new iPhone in March 2022. Unfortunately, the phone was stolen from his 
son during a robbery a few weeks later.
Mr P made a claim for the stolen phone under the Platinum account mobile phone 
insurance. To settle the claim, the insurer said that it would provide Mr P with a refurbished 
handset, rather than a new handset and this included a one-year warranty. Mr P was 
unhappy with this as the phone that was stolen was almost brand new, and had come with a 
two-year warranty, provided by the retailer hed bought it from. 
Mr P says that his Platinum packaged account was mis-sold, because every year for the last 
17 years or so, hes received an Annual Eligibility Statement (AES) from Lloyds which has 
never stated the basis on which any valid claim would be settled. However, on the 12 
October 2022 i.e. after he made the claim, he received an AES from Lloyds which, for the 
first time, stated: "This is not a new-for-old policy, if you make a valid claim for a replacement 
handset, you will receive a refurbished device".
In response to Mr Ps complaint, Lloyds initially paid Mr P £35 for the amount of time hed 
spent on the phone to discuss this matter. Lloyds then sent another letter and paid a further 
£50 for incorrectly closing his complaint. Lloyds said that the terms and conditions in place 
when Mr P took out the Platinum account said that replacement phones will be re-
conditioned or re-manufactured. Lloyds acknowledged that this was not mentioned in the 
AESs, but said that the AESs do not include all terms and conditions.
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint 
and they didnt think that Lloyds had mis-sold the Platinum account. The adjudicator also 
didnt think that Lloyds had done anything wrong because the AESs sent prior to 2022 didnt 
say how claims would be settled.
Mr P disagreed with the adjudicator, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and I 
have used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I can see that this matter has been greatly frustrating for Mr P. And I appreciate why Mr P 
was dissatisfied that his mobile phone insurance claim would be settled with a refurbished 
replacement - given that his handset was only around three weeks old at the time of the loss. 
But having said that, this complaint is against Lloyds Bank. So I cant consider the actions of 
the insurer or whether the claim was handled fairly or reasonably in this decision. All I can 
consider is whether Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
I understand the premise of Mr Ps complaint is that he says that Lloyds shouldve made it 
clearer to him that mobile phones replaced under the Platinum account mobile phone cover 
would be refurbished handsets.
When the account was sold to Mr P in 2006, the mobile phone insurance terms and 
conditions at the time said that in the event of a claim, replacement phones will come with 
new or refurbished stock. Such a term is not unusual for mobile phone insurance policies, so 
I wouldnt necessarily expect the business to have highlighted such a term during the sales 
process. Although Lloyds was still required to provide Mr P with information about the 
insurance policies so that he could make an informed decision about whether to upgrade to 
the Platinum account.
Unfortunately, due to how long ago it was sold, its not clear what information Mr P was 
given during the sale. However, I think its likely that Mr P was provided with information 
about the insurance benefits provided by the Platinum account. I say this because I can see 
that Mr P contacted the travel insurer a number of times over the years; had registered 
mobile phones with the mobile phone insurer; and had claimed on the breakdown cover a 
few times too. So it seems that he was given enough information to know who to contact to 
enquire about his cover, but also how to check the level of cover he had, register phones 
and make claims too.
However, even if it was the case that Mr P had not been provided with information about the 
mobile phone insurance during the sale, I still think its likely that Mr P wouldve agreed to 
the account, had he been given more information about it. I say this because it appears that 
he was attracted to and relying on a number of the benefits included with his account  not 
just the mobile phone insurance. Also, the terms at the time indicated that mobile phone 
claims could be settled with new or refurbished stock, so there was still a possibility at the 
time, that in the event of a claim, hed receive a new phone. 
Had this been made clear to Mr P, Im not persuaded that this wouldve necessarily put Mr P 
off from agreeing to the Platinum account. Afterall, he may not have envisaged at the time, 
the circumstances of his mobile phone claim occurring i.e. having to claim for a phone to be 
replaced that was almost brand new. As such, based on everything Ive seen, Im not able to 
conclude that the Platinum account was mis-sold.
I understand that in the years that Mr P had the Platinum account, the terms and conditions 
changed. One of the changes made to the mobile phone insurance, was that claims would 
be settled with reconditioned or re-manufactured phones, rather than brand new phones.
Lloyds has explained that it had written out to Mr P in September 2014 to explain that the 
mobile phone insurer had changed and provided Mr P with a copy of the terms and 
conditions of the various insurance policies. This explained that where the insurer replaces a 
mobile phone the replacement may be remanufactured (not brand new) handset.
Lloyds also sent an message to Mr P via its online banking messaging system - which is 
showing on Lloyds system as having been read by Mr P - on 13 September 2021. This 
explained that from November 2021: The terms and conditions will be updated to make it clear that replacement phones 
are not on a New for Old basis so if you make a valid claim for a replacement 
handset, you will receive a refurbished device which has been through a thorough a 
comprehensive checking process to ensure its in full working order. All mobile 
phones will come with a 1 year warranty from the insurer.
Although the document sent to Mr P in September 2021 addressed other changes to other 
benefits, the above was the only thing mentioned under the mobile phone insurance section 
of the document. It was not the case that it was buried in amongst a lot of other changes 
being made to the mobile phone insurance policy. So, I think that Lloyds did send Mr P 
information about the Platinum account mobile phone insurance terms and conditions 
changing, particularly that claims would be settled with refurbished phones. And it had done 
this before Mr P had purchased the phone that he unfortunately had to make a claim for.
Finally, I note that Mr P questioned why the AES sent in 2022 addressed the fact the policy 
does not provide new for old cover and that replacements would be remanufactured or 
refurbished. Mr P says that this shouldve been included in the AESs from the outset.
I do appreciate why Mr P has said this. But it is unfortunately the case that the policy 
wording was changed in November 2021, which was after the AES for 2021 had already 
been generated for him. This is likely the reason why it was, unfortunately for Mr P, not 
included in the 2021 AES.  
However, the AES is essentially required to include the eligibility criteria and any significant 
terms or exclusions. The AES cant be expected to highlight every term and exclusion that 
may affect policyholders, as the document would essentially fail to do what it is intended to 
do  which is to highlight the eligibility criteria of the various insurance policies. And although 
the AES does include some exclusions as well, the insurers previous policy to replace 
handsets with new or refurbished phones is not unusual and is a fairly common term for 
mobile phone insurance policies. So, I dont think Lloyds is at fault for not including this 
information in the AESs sent before 2022. 
So in summary, whilst I do have sympathy for the circumstances of Mr Ps insurance claim, 
Im not able to conclude that Lloyds has mis-sold the Platinum account. I also dont think it 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr P because the AESs didnt mention - until 
November 2021 onwards - how claims would be settled.
 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman