DRN-3450464
The complaint
Ms C complains about issues with her Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) account. She would like an 
apology, staff training to be put in place and compensation.
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Lloyds blocked a payment from Ms Cs account as a fraud prevention measure. As 
such measures are to protect consumers, I cant say the bank was wrong to do this.
Ms C says she didnt get a text from Lloyds asking her to confirm if the payment was 
genuine. However,  Lloyds notes confirm Ms C got a text to which she responded 
confirming it was her who had made the transaction. I think the most likely 
explanation is that Ms C doesnt recall this. 
With regard to the two applications Ms Cs made to temporarily increase her 
overdraft limit. Ms C has told us she didnt keep records of both applications and that 
she only got written confirmation of  the first application. Having reviewed Lloyds 
notes there seems to have only been one request by Ms C to temporarily increase 
her overdraft on 25 July 2021 which was  approved on 27 July 2021 and confirmed to 
Ms C by letter. I can only conclude that either Ms C  only applied for one temporary 
increase, or there may have been a technical issue with her second application which 
prevented it going through.
The unfortunate consequence of Ms C only applying for one temporary increase , 
combined with the short time taken for Lloyds to approve this, meant there werent 
sufficient funds in her account to cover a number of direct debits. I dont think Lloyds 
were wrong not to make these payments as they would have exceeded the agreed 
overdraft at the time.
I do appreciate Ms Cs frustration but as I havent found Lloyds to have done 
anything wrong, I cant reasonably ask it to apologise to her or to compensate her as 
she would like
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complain.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman