DRN-2078460
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that TSB Bank plc declined a transfer she attempted to make from her 
current account to her savings account with another bank and the service she received when 
trying to resolve this.
What happened
On 11 August 2018 Miss S attempted make a large transfer from her TSB current account to 
her savings account with another bank. She attempted to make this transfer using her online 
banking facility. The transaction was blocked by TSB and Miss S was directed to call TSBs 
customer services to assist with the transaction.
Miss S made multiple calls to TSB  but it wasnt able to verify her and she was asked to visit 
her local branch with identification to have the block removed. She visited her local branch 
on 21 August 2018 but the block couldnt be removed due to technical issues and she had to 
return on 29 August 2018 for the transfer to be actioned.
Miss S complained about the service she received from TSB at the time. She was unhappy 
with the number of phone calls she needed to make and the time these took as well as 
having to visit her local branch without being able to make the transfer successfully.
TSB didnt provide a response to Miss S and the complaint was marked as resolved after the 
transfer was complete. In 2019 Miss brought the complaint to this service, unhappy that she 
hadnt had a response from TSB on her complaint points.
The complaint was looked at by one of our case handlers and they felt TSB had done 
something wrong and Miss S had suffered financial loss as a result of the error as well as 
distress and inconvenience. 
Miss S was transferring her money to a savings account and when blocked, she lost the 
interest which would have been applied had the money reached the account as intended. 
She also incurred fuel costs when traveling to and from her local branch to make the 
transfer. We recommended that TSB pay Miss S this interest that she lost out on from the 
day she attempted to make the transfer until the point the money was in her savings account 
this totalled £180.01. And pay her £30.00 fuel costs.
The investigator made a recommendation of £150.00 to compensate Miss S for the distress 
and inconvenience she experienced when the transaction was blocked. They accepted there 
had been delays and errors in TSBs complaint handling but this isnt a regulated activity and 
so the recommendation wasnt taking this into account. But she recognised Miss S spent a 
great deal of time trying to sort the matter out over the phone and had to take multiple trips 
to her local branch to resolve the issue.
Miss S accepted the refund of interest and fuel costs but felt the compensation 
recommended for the distress and inconvenience was too low.
The complaint was reviewed by another investigator ahead of it being passed to me for a 
final decision. They too felt the award of £150.00 for the trouble and upset caused was fair 
and in line with awards wed make on complaints with similar issues.
Miss S didnt agree and provided additional information about an issue she had with TSB 
previously when it was a member of another bank. She said shes been the victim of a fraud 
and lost a considerable amount of money. So this meant she found the loss of access to her 
account and the blocked transaction in 2018 even more concerning than it might otherwise 
have been. As a result, she couldnt accept the £150.00 for the distress and inconvenience.
Because Miss S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The transaction complained about is the attempted bank transfer on 11 August 2018 which 
wasnt completed until 29 August 2018 and the service received while trying make this. I 
appreciate Miss S is also unhappy with the complaint handling by TSB and that she didnt 
receive a response when she first raised this as a complaint. But as our investigator has 
said, this isnt a regulated activity and not something Ive considered with this complaint.
TSB has agreed to refund the lost interest and cover Miss Ss fuel costs, putting her back in 
the position she would have been in had there been no error. So what I need to decide is 
whether the compensation recommended for the distress and inconvenience is fair.
When something goes wrong there will always be a level of inconvenience needed to put 
things right and unfortunately, this is expected. When this level of inconvenience is beyond 
what is expected its fair that a customer is compensated for this, especially when theyve 
done all they can to try and fix the problem.
I appreciate Miss S was the victim of fraud previously and she has explained this added to 
the distress of this matter. Im sorry she has experienced this before and I can see why a 
transaction being declined and losing the ability to use her online banking and not being able 
to see her money will have been worrying. But Ive not seen anything to suggest she was 
told in any of the calls with TSB that her money had left her account or that it was missing. 
So despite previous experiences, I think she should have been reassured the money was 
still there but the transaction itself wasnt able to take place due to the block.
It is clear from the phone records provided by Miss S that she made a large number of 
phone calls to try resolve the issue with her transfer. And in total she has spent hours 
making these calls as well as the time she took to visit her local branch. This is beyond the 
level of inconvenience one would expect when trying to resolve an issue like this. And with 
Miss S following the instructions given to her by TSB, its understandable why she is 
frustrated with this level of service. 
However, I feel the recommendation made of £150.00 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused is fair. I know this will be disappointing for Miss S, but I must bear in mind that she 
would have needed to make alternative arrangements for her transfer and this may well 
have meant visiting her local branch. I say this as the online transfer limit for TSB is £25,000 
and the payment Miss S wanted to make to her savings account was considerably more 
than this  so unless made in a number of smaller transactions  she wouldnt have been 
able to do this online.I think £150.00 fairly compensates Miss S for the inconvenience she experienced in having 
to make the multiple phone calls to TSB and for any distress she may have been 
experiencing as a result of this. Miss S has said herself this might have been accepted if 
offered when the original complaint was made and I understand the frustration with TSBs 
complaint handling of this matter. But I think the resolution offered for the transaction 
complained about is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Miss Ss complaint and direct TSB Bank plc 
to pay Miss S £150.00 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
If it hasnt already done so, it should also pay Miss S the lost interest amount of £180.01 and 
£30.00 fuel costs as previously agreed. Simple interest should be added at 8% from 29 
August 2018 to date of payment less tax charged at the standard rate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2020. 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman