DRN-4302179
The complaint
Mr G complains that Go Car Credit Limited (Go Car) didnt treat him fairly when he
couldnt meet his hire purchase payments and when it terminated his agreement.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr G entered into a hire purchase agreement with Go Car, via an
intermediary, in order to acquire a used car. The cash price of the car was £8,000 and
Mr G borrowed the full amount. The agreement was for a total of £16,010 including
interest and charges, which was to be repaid over 48 monthly instalments of £334
(figures rounded). The car was almost six years old when Mr G acquired it and it had
travelled over 46,000 miles.
The credit to acquire the car was granted by Go Car under a hire purchase agreement
meaning Mr G would own the car when the credit had been repaid. Go Car was the
owner until that point and Mr G was, in essence, paying for the use of it.
Mr G made his payments in February and March 2020 before letting Go Car know at the
end of March that hed been impacted by the pandemic. He explained that he was
considered to be at high risk and so was self-isolating and receiving statutory sick pay.
Mr G asked for a payment holiday. I understand that Go Car put Mr Gs account on hold.
On 22 April Mr G told Go Car that hed been let go from work due to the pandemic. He
said that he would know by mid-May whether he could claim universal credit. Go Car put
his account on hold again until then.
Go Car told Mr G in June 2020 that it was going to call him about voluntary termination as
he was in arrears and it seemed his circumstances hadnt improved. Mr G reminded
Go Car that he had been let go from his job in April and had not been offered a payment
holiday. Mr G was now four payments in arrears. Go Car agreed a three month payment
holiday for Mr G.
Go Car sent Mr G a letter in late October 2020 explaining that the payment holiday was
nearing its end and his usual repayments would begin again from 1 November. It also said 
that he owed £1,334 in arrears and that it needed to speak with him in order to discuss
how these would be repaid. The arrears were for the months of April to July when Mr G
hadnt made any payments.
Go Car sent Mr G a default notice on 7 November 2020 which directed him to take action
before the 24 November and either pay an amount of over £10,000 to clear the total
agreement balance or get in touch to discuss a resolution. Mr G asked for a further
deferral of payments. Go Car didnt offer this. Mr G offered to pay an additional amount
above his usual payment to clear the arrears but Go Car didnt accept this emailed offer
and told Mr G it would need to speak with him and assess his financial situation before
agreeing to a repayment plan. Go Car sent Mr G an income and expenditure assessment
form. I havent seen a copy of this and Go Car has recently confirmed that Mr G didnt 
complete it.
On 15 December Mr G told Go Car that he was no longer working and was in receipt of 
universal credit and couldnt make his payments. In January 2021 Go Car spoke with Mr G 
and offered him the option of voluntarily terminating his agreement or having the car 
repossessed. Mr G told Go Car that it was all the same to him. Go Car terminated Mr Gs 
agreement on 29 January 2021. I understand that the car was collected in February.
Go Car told Mr G he owed £11,543. This was the agreement total of £16,010 plus a
£250 repossession charge, minus the two payments Mr G had made and the market
value of the car at £4,050. Go Car told us that this valuation was obtained from a well-
known valuations company and was for a similar model in clean condition. It also told us in 
May of this year that it sold the car for £7,000 having spent £1,078.56 repairing damage and 
preparing it for sale upon its return.
Mr G wasnt happy with his experience. He said that Go Car didnt act professionally or in his
best interests during the pandemic, and this left him with a large debt and damage to his
credit rating. Go Car didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said that it had followed the correct
processes in dealing with him: it tried to work with him several times, had put his account on
hold, granted a payment deferral and tried to assist him by offering voluntary termination.
Mr G referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it. They found
that Go Car didnt treat Mr G fairly and with regard to his interests by terminating the
agreement and repossessing the car rather than allowing him to voluntarily terminate his
agreement. They proposed that Mr Gs liability be reduced from £11,543 to what it would
have been had he voluntarily terminated the agreement. According to the hire purchase
agreement this would be £8,005.
Go Car didnt agree with this recommendation. It said Mr G was given the option and
chose to have the car repossessed. It didnt think it was right to go against his decision
as this would constitute giving financial advice.
Mr G didnt agree with this recommendation either. He said that he had refused to
voluntarily end his agreement and didnt agree to have the car repossessed but Go Car
made it impossible for him to keep it. Mr G said that he couldnt tax or MOT it as it had
been immobilised and it was illegal to keep it parked on a driveway in that condition.
Mr G said it wasnt right for Go Car to have left him with over £8,000 of debt and said
that it would have resold the car which hadnt been taken into account.
Both parties asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and it came to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on 23 May 2023 explaining why I thought Mr Gs complaint 
should be upheld and setting out my proposals for putting things right for him. Go Car 
disagreed with my provisional decision and sent a detailed response to us on 6 July 2023. 
This is my final decision on the matter and will be legally binding on both parties if Mr G 
accepts it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, including what Go Car said in response to my 
provisional decision, I remain of the view that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld and that 
my proposals for putting things right are fair in the context of this complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Go Car and Ill set out again my reasons for upholding and 
respond to its comments where appropriate. 
My provisional decision
Ill begin by setting out this excerpt from my provisional decision:
I have taken into account the law and relevant regulatory rules. These include, for example, 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)
which sets out its regulations and guidance for lenders such as Go Car about what should
happen before and during credit agreements. This states that a firm must treat customers
in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration (7.3.4). Go Cars 
overarching obligation (as per the high level principles businesses must adhere to) was to 
pay due regard to customers interests and treat them fairly.
Ive also borne in mind more recent guidance issued by the FCA from April 2020 onwards
which set out how it expected businesses to provide exceptional and immediate support
to customers in motor finance agreements facing temporary payment difficulties because
of coronavirus. All guidance is available on the FCAs website so I wont set it out in detail
here. In summary, from 24 April 20201 to 31 July 2021, if customers were having difficulty
meeting repayments due to the impact of the pandemic, Go Car should have:
offered customers a payment deferral for three months (to a maximum of six in total) 
unless it was obviously not in their customers interests and it didnt need to make 
enquiries with customers in order to do so;
made all reasonable attempts to contact customers to find out whether they could 
resume full payments at the end of any deferral period  it could proceed on the 
basis that they could do so if they didnt respond;
had regard to the unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) as 
an unfair relationship can be established from the way in which a firm exercises or 
enforces their rights under the agreement (see CCA sections 140A(1)(b) and 
140A(2)).
Go Car should not have:
reported a worsening arrears status on the customers credit file during the payment 
deferral period;
terminated a regulated agreement (before 31 January 2021) regardless of whether or 
not a customer was receiving support under the guidance, except in exceptional 
circumstances.
Bearing all this in mind, I think the main questions I need to consider are did Go Car
treat Mr G fairly in its dealings with him, for example when he asked for a payment
deferral or when it terminated his agreement? Ultimately, did Go Car pay due regard to
Mr Gs interests and treat him fairly?
The facts of the case are known to both parties and set out in the background section of this
decision. I want to reassure both parties that Ive considered all the information available to
me when coming to a decision on this complaint. I wont go into any more detail about what
happened but will explain why I plan to uphold Mr Gs complaint and my proposals to put
things right for him.
1 Published 17/04/2020 https://www.fca.org.uk/publications/guidance-consultations/motor-finance-coronavirusI dont think Go Car provided exceptional and immediate support to Mr G when he told it
that his income had been impacted by the pandemic. It could have offered Mr G a payment
holiday earlier than August 2020 and treated his payments for April to July 2020 as deferred 
rather than missed payments. When the payment holiday covering August to October ended,
Go Car issued a default notice on 7 November for the earlier four months of arrears. I dont
think Go Car treated Mr G fairly when it did so.
Had Go Car granted Mr G six deferrals (for April to September 2020) he would have had
to resume repayments in October or come to an arrangement with Go Car. The maximum
number of payment deferrals allowed under the guidance was six, although if Mr G was
having problems resuming payments Go Car could have granted further deferrals under
CONC 7. The three month payment deferral Go Car agreed for Mr G ended on 31
October 2020.
As mentioned, Mr G completed an income and expenditure assessment in November
2020 and in December told Go Car that he wasnt working and back in receipt of universal
credit and so couldnt afford to make payments. I think its likely that Mr G would have
ended up in a position where he needed to consider his options about the agreement
before the end of 2020. However, it seems to me that he might have reached that point
without adverse information being recorded on his credit file.
This brings me to the question of how the agreement ended. As mentioned Go Car
terminated the agreement on 29 January 2021. Go Car said it offered Mr G the option of
voluntarily terminating the agreement which would have limited his liability. Ive listened
to the call Go Car had with Mr G and it seems to me that he saw no difference in having
the car repossessed and voluntarily terminating the agreement. I dont think Go Car was
in any danger of providing financial advice simply by making it clear to Mr G the
implications of the options offered2.
Leaving this aside, the guidance was clear that terminating a hire purchase agreement at
that time should only happen by exception and I dont think the circumstances of this
case were exceptional. CONC 7.3.5 sets out examples of how Go Car could have
exercised forbearance, which includes suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any
further interest or charges. Given how recently the car had been supplied it may be the
selling dealership would have been willing to buy the car back, for example, or Mr G
could have found a private buyer. Ive provisionally concluded that Go Car treated Mr G
unfairly and without due regard to his interests when it terminated his agreement in the
manner in which it did.
Go Car then sold the car at auction for close to the purchase price. It had purchased the
car for an amount of £8,000 and sold it for £7,000, with net sale proceeds of £5,921.44.
So Go Car lost £2,078.56 in capital, reduced to £1,410.56 taking into account Mr Gs
payments of £668.
Mr G had the car for about two months when he let Go Car know he was financially
impacted by the pandemic. He told Go Car later in the year that he wasnt able to afford
the repayments as he wasnt working and in receipt of universal credit. I can see from
public information that the car had travelled 4,141 miles between its MOTs in December
2019 and February 2021. It doesnt seem to me Mr G made extensive or excessive use
of the car.
As mentioned, the outstanding balance on the account is over £11,500. Altogether, I
dont think the amount of interest Go Car is now holding Mr G liable for fairly reflects
2 As per the FCAs Perimeter Guidance, PERG 17.7Geither the net capital outlay it incurred, the length of time Mr G had the car in his
possession or his use of it.
In summary, Ive provisionally concluded that Go Car treated Mr G unfairly and without
due regard to his interests by:
not offering him a payment deferral earlier in 2020 and instead treating his missed 
payments as arrears;
defaulting his account in November 2020;
terminating his agreement on 29 January 2021; and
holding him liable for an outstanding debt of £11,543.
I currently think a fair and reasonable way to put things right for Mr G is for Go Car to:
reduce the outstanding debt to £1,410.56;
treat Mr G with forbearance and with due consideration regarding this amended 
balance, which may mean agreeing an affordable repayment plan with him;
consider the account settled once this amended balance is repaid; and
remove any adverse information on Mr Gs credit file resulting from payments missed 
under the agreement up to the 31 October 2020.
If Go Car has since sold the debt it will need to either buy the debt back or work with the
current debt owner to bring about the steps Ive set out above.
Go Cars response to my provisional decision
Go Car said that it didnt offer Mr G a payment deferral earlier in 2020 because hed said he 
might have a tax rebate at the end of April and so expected hed be able to make his 
payments over the next few months. Go Car didnt feel it was right at this point to offer him a 
payment holiday. 
Go Car also said that I had incorrectly assumed that it reported Mr Gs account as defaulted 
in November when it didnt report it as defaulted until February 2021. Go Car said that it 
didnt send a communication to Mr G requesting that he make a payment of around £10,000 
and at no point did it state to Mr G that he must make the full arrears payment, it simply 
needed him to make contact to discuss the account. Go Car said it sent Mr G a Notice of 
Default letter to state the current balance of his arrears and asked him to contact it to 
discuss this further. It also said that its agreement does not allow/authorise it to vary the
agreement, so it would not be able to move these payments, or extend the agreement length
to account for these payments at a later date. This was the only option it could offer Mr G at 
this time, based on its conversations with him.
Go Car disagreed that it was not allowed to terminate a customers agreement before 
31 January 2021. It said that the guidance stated that it could terminate the agreement if it 
was in the customers interests to do so. Go Car said it believed it acted in Mr Gs best 
interests by not putting him further into arrears that he would be unable to pay at a later date 
as his circumstances were not due to change. Also, Mr G had repeatedly said that he did not 
want the vehicle anymore and wanted it taken away from his driveway. On this point Go Car 
said that it had never immobilised the car. 
Go Car said that it did not see it as fair for Mr Gs liability to be reduced to £1,410.56. It said 
it would be happy to reduce the liability to £8,005, which it would further reduce by £350 for 
any distress caused to Mr G. My considerations
Mr G did mention a tax rebate to Go Car on 8 April 2020 as noted in the call notes. This is 
the only mention of this rebate. On 22 April Mr G told Go Car that hed been let go from 
work, that hed applied for universal credit (UC) but wouldnt know the outcome of his 
application until mid-May. On 18 May Mr G confirmed he was in receipt of UC and was 
looking for work though self-isolating. On 20 July Mr G asked again about a payment holiday 
and confirmed his situation hadnt changed. Im still of the view that Go Car could have put in 
place a payment holiday for Mr G earlier than it did. 
Go Car sent Mr G a letter on 26 October 2020 to say that his deferral period was coming to 
an end on the 1 November and asked him to get in touch to discuss his situation if he 
couldnt resume his repayments. It followed this up with two emails. Go Car then sent Mr G a 
Notice of Default letter on 7 November after he failed to make a payment on the 1st. This 
accompanied a default notice. The letter said that the default notice required Mr G to take 
the stated action by paying the outstanding arrears within two weeks or make contact to 
discuss his circumstances and consider whether it is possible to reach an agreeable 
resolution for the breach. 
The default notice states that the action required is to pay to us the total arrears of 
£1,667.70 before 24/11/2020 and If you do not take the action required above on or before 
the date shown, we will terminate your agreement and we will enforce our rights to (i) 
permanently immobilise your vehicle and/or (ii) recover possession of the vehicle and/or (iii) 
require full payment of the outstanding balance, less rebate allowable as set out below.  
The Notice set out the total amount to be repaid as £10,046.33. 
I appreciate that Go Car was required to keep Mr G informed about the state of his account 
and that it was, in its words, looking to promote contact with him, however, it seems it didnt 
offer him any other options. The contact notes record that Mr G asked for another payment 
holiday and later in November offered to pay £40 in addition to his usual monthly repayment. 
Go Car didnt offer Mr G another payment holiday and said it couldnt agree a repayment 
plan without an income and expenditure assessment. 
I appreciate that Go Cars usual practice might not include moving or deferring payments or 
extending agreement lengths. Nevertheless, the guidance called for exceptional and 
immediate support to customers in the context of the pandemic. I remain of the view that Go 
Car didnt treat Mr G fairly at this point, though I have noted that it didnt report his account 
as in default to the credit reference agencies at that time as Id assumed. 
Id said in my provisional decision that Go Car should not have terminated a regulated 
agreement (before 31 January 2021) regardless of whether or not a customer was receiving 
support under the guidance, except in exceptional circumstances such as, for example, a 
customer requesting termination. Go Car said that it believed it was acting in Mr Gs best 
interests by ending the agreement, repossessing the car and holding him liable for a 
payment of £11,542.92. 
Mr G told us that he did not agree to have the car repossessed but that Go Car had made it 
impossible for him to keep it. Ive listened again to the call Mr G had with Go Car in January 
2021. He said that hed worked three months out of the last ten and he didnt know when 
hed be working again, given the pandemic. He said on the call that hed spoken with a debt 
advice charity who told him most car finance companies were working with people but his 
one, meaning Go Car, was exercising its rights. He said if you want to repossess it then 
repossess it, he was in a no win no win situation and it doesnt matter which way I go... Ive also listened again to a recording of call Mr G made some time later enquiring about the 
collection of the car. He was asked if hed gone through a voluntary termination and he said 
I cant afford the payments and I spoke to collections and they said they were going to 
repossess the car. The cars immobilised, theres no tax and no MOT on it. I cant do 
anything with it, Im out of work. He was then asked So youve spoken to collections and 
you want us to collect the car? Mr G replied that hed spoken to someone a couple of weeks 
ago who said that Go Car were going to repossess the car and said do what you want, do 
what you have to do. Altogether, I cant agree that Mr G freely chose to have the agreement 
terminated or the car repossessed and that exceptional circumstances for terminating an 
agreement referred to in the guidance applied in this case.
I appreciate that Go Cars perspective is that it was acting in Mr Gs best interests by limiting 
the build-up of arrears that he might not be able to repay given his circumstances. This isnt 
an unreasonable perspective and might well be a fair way to proceed in some cases. 
However, I cant agree that it was in Mr Gs best interests to have the agreement terminated 
in the way Go Car did which resulted in him being held liable for a debt of over £11,500. This 
meant Mr G was essentially being charged a large amount of interest having borrowed to 
hire a car for a short period of time.  
On the immobilisation point  Mr G said that the car had been immobilised and Go Car 
disputed this. The contact notes record that Mr G spoke with Go Car in early December to 
say that he couldnt unlock the car and needed access to retrieve medication and 
possessions. Go Car said it hadnt immobilised the car but it was at a warning stage which 
would emit a beep. Mr G replied that it was likely that even in a warning stage the 
immobiliser had flattened the battery. Go Car advised Mr G to jumpstart the car or contact a 
mechanic to change the battery. I havent investigated this point further. It seems to me that 
the car had been put out of use by the battery being depleted and Mr G would need to take 
some action himself to get it going again. 
In conclusion, while Go Car may have been exercising its rights to recover sums owed under 
the agreement, I remain of the view that it didnt treat Mr G fairly and with due regard to his 
interests when it terminated his agreement and repossessed the car in the manner in which 
it did. 
As Ive explained above, my provisional conclusions remain largely unchanged. In summary, 
Ive concluded that Go Car treated Mr G unfairly and without due regard to his interests by:
not offering him a payment deferral earlier in 2020 and instead treating his missed 
payments as arrears;
terminating his agreement on 29 January 2021; and
holding him liable for an outstanding debt of £11,543.
Putting things right
When Mr G brought his complaint to us, he was being pursued for a debt of over £11,500. 
Mr G had the car for about a year and it travelled 4,141 miles in this time. Id said in my 
provisional decision that I didnt think that the amount of interest Go Car was holding Mr G 
liable for fairly reflected either the net capital outlay it incurred, the length of time Mr G had 
the car in his possession or his use of it.
In response to my provisional decision, Go Car offered to reduce the balance Mr G owes 
from £11,543 to £8,005. It also offered to further reduce this amount by £350 to reflect any 
distress caused to Mr G in this matter. However, I dont think even this level of liability fairly 
reflects Go Car outlay or Mr Gs use of the car. I appreciate that Mr G was in a contractual relationship and bound to pay the amounts 
owing. However, these events took place during a pandemic where lenders were obliged to 
provide exceptional and immediate support to customers. Given the circumstances of this 
case I dont feel it would be fair and reasonable of Go Car to pursue Mr G for an amount of 
£7,655. 
I do think its fair for Mr G to pay something for his use of the car and Ive estimated Go Cars 
capital outlay as £1,410.65, which it hasnt disputed. Ive concluded that Mr Gs debt should 
be reduced to this amount. 
In summary, Go Car needs to:
reduce Mr Gs outstanding debt to £1,410.56;
treat Mr G with forbearance and with due consideration regarding this amended 
balance, which may mean agreeing an affordable repayment plan with him;
consider the account settled once this amended balance is repaid; and
remove any adverse information on Mr Gs credit file resulting from payments missed 
under the agreement up to the 31 October 2020.
If Go Car has since sold the debt it will need to either buy the debt back or work with the
current debt owner to bring about the steps Ive set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I am upholding Mr Gs complaint against Go Car 
Credit Limited and it now needs to put things right for him as Ive set out. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman