DRN-4443490
The complaint
W has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC did not fairly compensate her after she 
complained about mis-sold mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
W arranged the original mortgage in April 1992. She took out a further advance in 
September 2000 and then paid the mortgage off entirely in June 2002.
She enquired to Barclays about whether she had ever had a PPI policy. It responded to say 
that shed had two policies:
Policy 1 between April 1992 and September 1993
Policy 2 between September 2000 and October 2000
At the time, W didnt notice that the dates werent continuous. She subsequently made a 
complaint and Barclays upheld her complaint in relation to Policy 2. So, it refunded the two 
premiums that it said she had paid in 2000. However, Barclays didnt address the entirety of 
the complaint as it failed to consider whether Policy 1 had been mis-sold.
W then brought her complaint to this service, saying that she must be due redress for the 
total period of the mortgage.
Following liaison with our investigator, Barclays accepted that it hadnt looked at Policy 1. 
So, it has offered further mis-sale redress for that policy of £1,017.48.
Our investigator thought that Barclays offer was a fair way to settle the complaint. W 
disagrees with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
W is of the view that she should receive no less than £7,000 due to having had the PPI 
policy for just over ten years.
I appreciate Ws strength of feeling that she would have had the policy for the entire period 
of the mortgage. However, whilst she has been able to provide evidence relating to the 
mortgage itself, and for a life insurance policy, she has only been able to provide one piece 
of documentation in relation to the PPI. That is an application form for the further advance, 
dated 12 September 2000, showing that she ticked a box to select PPI and then completed 
the direct debit instruction.
Theres no contradiction between what W has been able to provide and what Barclays has 
said. Barclays records show Policy 2 beginning in September 2000.
What W hasnt been able to provide is evidence that PPI was active for the entire period 
between 1992 and 2002. I understand that her recollection was that the policy did span this 
period. But, as our investigator has mentioned, its possible that she is thinking about the life 
insurance policy. Because we know that she had that for the full duration of the mortgage.
Based on the available evidence, I am unable to conclude that W had an active PPI policy 
throughout her mortgage. I find it more likely than not that Barclays records correctly reflect 
that, policies she took out with the original mortgage and further advance, were later 
cancelled on the dates indicated.
Barclays were clearly at fault by failing to consider Policy 1 as part of the original complaint. 
So I uphold Ws complaint that the amount of redress paid to her so far is incorrect. 
However, I think that what Barclays is proposing to do now is fair, because it returns her to 
the position she should have been in if the policies had never been sold in the first place.
Barclays has based its recent offer on the information it holds, which is the start and end 
dates and the monthly premium amount. It has then added 8% simple interest and deducted 
tax. Im satisfied that it is reasonable for Barclays to use the available data to calculate the 
offer in the way it has.
My final decision
My decision is that I consider Barclays Bank UK PLCs previous payment in relation to Policy 
2, and its current offer in relation to Policy 1, to be fair and reasonable.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should now pay W its additional compensation offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman