DRN-2080759
The complaint
Mr H says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr H bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a store card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below:
Mr H says he didnt understand what he was signing up to, and that AXA didnt give 
him a proper choice about buying the PPI. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure 
what was discussed between Mr H and AXA when the policy was sold. But I note 
that the store card application form Mr H completed included a separate section 
about PPI, and that Mr H signed it to show that he wanted the PPI. So I think Mr H 
wouldve realised he had a choice about whether or not to take the PPI. From what 
Ive seen, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to say that AXA didnt 
make Mr H aware that the policy was optional.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means that Mr H had to cover 
his repayments.
But even if AXA had recommended the policy to Mr H, it doesnt look as though it 
was unsuitable for him, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Mr H  says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work because 
of sickness or accident, and that his parents wouldve supported him if things went 
wrong. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Hs employer benefits and 
would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place would mean Mr H could 
use his employer benefits to cover other expenses. And it wouldve meant he didnt 
have to rely on his parents. So I think the policy wouldve been useful to Mr H. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mr H would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I 
dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman