Page 1 of 6The complaint
Ms C, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her when her 
financial situation was  struggling on a minimum wage  and her credit history was poor. So, 
they were lent when Ms C could not afford them. 
What happened
Using information from Morses records, here is a brief loan table.
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Capital Repayment
1 01/08/2017 06/03/2018 33 £300.00 £15.00
2 06/03/2018 08/10/2018 33 £500.00 £25.00
3 08/10/2018 21/06/2019 33 £500.00 £25.00
4 21/06/2019 30/12/2019 33 £500.00 £25.00
5 30/12/2019 25/08/2020 34 £500.00 £25.00
6 25/08/2020 11/03/2022 34 £500.00 £25.00
Morses issued its final response letter (FRL) in July 2022 in which it gave reasons for not 
upholding Ms Cs complaint. So, she referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
together with her original complaint letter and income an expenditure form (I&E). The 
covering letter said that a credit file and bank statements would follow but they have not 
been sent. Ill come back to the lack of detail from Ms C that later in the decision.
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint and said that loans 4 to 6 ought not to have 
been lent to Ms C. He felt that the pattern of lending showed that the loans from loan 4 were 
unsustainable.
Morses disagreed and made two sets of submissions as to why, all of which I have read. 
They are summarised here:
The loans remained relatively consistent at £500 from loan 2
Ms Cs repayments remained at £25 a week and was one loan at a time
Income figures were verified for most of the loans  certainly for loan 4 (£291 a week)
and £353 and £398 for loans 5 and 6 respectively  and Morses is confident these
were accurate
It sent to us copy account notes made at the time of the loan applications in which
Ms C had made specific comments about not having transport costs, had no
DRN-3793334Page 2 of 6childcare costs and rent was paid by benefits, no insurance or travel costs, and shed 
had a council tax rebate. These related to loans 4, 5 and 6. 
It used Office of National Statistics (ONS) to populate details for Ms C. It said it used 
the credit search details to note the payments she made to creditors.
We used 14.7% of Miss Cs uncommitted and available income for loan 4, 15.5%for 
loan 5 and 19.8% of her disposable income was utilised to meet her repayment  for 
loan 6, we do not consider these figures to be excessive.
It has a note that in August 2021 Ms C was on a reduced income and that was when 
it knew she was having difficulties repaying, which was after Ms C had taken loan 6.
as well as using figures from the ONS, we also used actual figures confirmed by
[Ms C], as shown in the screenshots of the information she declared.
Ms C  had sufficient disposable income after all including all expenditure which was  
more than enough to meet her repayments
Ms C could have closed the loans at the end of each lending period. 
Since our adjudicators view neither Ms C nor Ms Cs representative have replied so we do 
not know Ms Cs response. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide and on 24 November 2022 I issued a 
provisional decision giving my reasons for a change in outcome  that I was planning to 
uphold Loans 5 and 6 and for slightly different reasons to those of our adjudicator.
Both parties were given time to respond. Morses has told us it has nothing more to add. 
Ms Cs representative has said that she agrees with the provisional decision. 
For ease of reference that is set out here in full and in smaller type to differentiate it from the 
final decision. 
My provisional decision dated 24 November 2022. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, 
short-term and home credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms C could afford to pay back the amounts shed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to the 
circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number of different things, such as how 
much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Cs income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Ms C. These factors include:
Ms C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or
was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms C. Our adjudicator considered this to be the 
case for Ms C.Page 3 of 6Morses was required to establish whether Ms C could sustainably repay the loans  not just whether 
she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money to make the 
repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms C was able to repay her loans sustainably. But it 
doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and, 
made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make 
them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those repayments 
are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and thought 
about what this means for Ms Cs complaint.
Evidence from both parties
Ive provisionally decided to reject the financial evidence Ms C has sent to us through her 
representative. And I say this because her own figures do not match up. And what I mean is the 
figures presented in the covering letter from Ms Cs representative and the I&E she has submitted 
(which looks to have been completed by Ms C) do not match, and then those figures do not correlate 
with what she is said to have given Morses at the time she was applying for the loans. 
Ms Cs representatives figures say that Ms C was earning £400 a month and had expenses of either 
£430 a month or £240 a month  depending on the document - and hence the inconsistency. 
Whereas Morses had recorded income figures ranging from £288 a week to £398 a week. The 
duplicated partial table from that Morses I&E spreadsheet is set out below. These figures are totally 
different to the ones Ms C has submitted through her representative recently.
LOANS CRA 
INCOME 
CHECKEDINCOME EXPENDITURE DISPOSABLE 
INCOME
1 £0.00* £370.00 £130.00 £240.00
2 £293.00 £293.00 £100.00 £193.00
3 £288.00 £288.00 £110.00 £178.00
4 £291.00 £291.00 £121.00 £170.00
5 £353.00 £353.00 £187.00 £166.00
6 £398.00 £398.00 £271.00 £127.00
*another two columns in the Morses I&E sheet show me that Ms C earned £150 a week in wages and 
£220 in benefits and the agent had seen that evidence. So her income for loan 1 was £370.
This table is an extract from the spreadsheet Morses sent to us showing the figures it says that Ms C 
gave to it at the time. Morses has sent us screenshots of account notes made contemporaneously 
about some of Ms Cs circumstances. I have listed those in the what happened part of the decision.
When weighing up the submissions from both parties I have more faith in the contemporaneous notes 
and figures on that I&E from Morses than I do from Ms Cs representative. But this is a provisional 
decision and so Ms C has time to send us further evidence. And by evidence I do not simply mean 
submissions: Id need to see financial details. 
Checks carried out 
Morses always carries out a credit check for the first loan and it did the same for Ms C. A copy of 
those credit search results has been sent to us and dated August 2017 which coincides with Ms Cs 
application for loan 1. A summary of some of the results are in the next paragraph.Page 4 of 6Ms C had seven active accounts (which can include bank accounts) and her total outstanding debt 
was £2,485 of which £1,504 related to defaulted accounts. The last defaulted account had been 
39 months before (so about three years) and an account had become delinquent the previous month 
so July 2017. And it appears from these records that Ms C had had some home credit accounts 
default in the past. 
Ms Cs total monthly payments on home-credit debt was £194 which translates to be about £45 a 
week. 
So while this was not a great record, Morses is often a lender approached by, and which is used to 
lending to, customers with a credit record where there are some adverse entries. The defaults were 
more than three years before August 2017 and so I doubt they would have given Morses too much to 
be concerned about. 
Its I&E spreadsheet does not include the £45 a week for existing debt commitment which I do not 
understand why  but even if I add that figure into the figures for loans 1 and 2 (loan 2 being only a 
few months later) then still, on the Morses figures, Loans 1 and 2 looked affordable. 
Id say the same for loans 3. But by loan 4 Id expect Morses to have gone a bit further. Either it could 
have checked Ms Cs credit file again or it could have looked at some other details relating to her 
financial situation to see where she was and why she needed the additional loans. By loan 4 Ms C 
had been asking Morses for credit for almost two years and at that stage I think it ought not to have 
simply relied on what Ms C had been telling it. 
And when I review Morses evidence it says that it did obtain additional information from Ms C and it 
made notes about those. I have referred to these in the what happened part of the decision. And in 
the I&E spreadsheet there are indicators that the agent had obtained CRA verification for loan 4 on 
her income and had benefits evidence for loans 5 and 6. But checking her expenditure ought to have 
been carried out too, and Im not sure Morses did that.
To assess what it is that Morses might have seen had it carried out additional checks for loan 4 then 
Id need some information and evidence about Ms Cs financial position for that lending period. I do 
not rely on Ms Cs financial evidence as I have explained before. I have received nothing else from Ms 
C to support her complaint. And so, I am not able to do that.
In the circumstances and on current evidence, I plan not to uphold Ms Cs complaint about 
loans 1 to 4.
Loans 5 and 6
These loans were when Ms C had been borrowing from Morses for a long time by this stage and the 
records Morses has sent us show that she was a) coming back for more credit when there was still 
around £175 outstanding on the previous loan which she had not done before and b) had noted that 
for loan 5 she had other credit and other home credit commitments. Those, with the loan 5 repayment 
meant that Ms C was paying at least £87 a week on these. And for loan 6  it was £75 a week in total. 
It had calculated the following on its I&E sheet:
Loan 5 £87.00 24.65%
Loan 6 £75.00 18.84%
The percentage of Ms Cs total repayments to these loans of her (increased) income from benefits 
was almost 25% and almost 19%. I consider these to have been too high and so likely unsustainable. 
So, although I do not have much financial evidence from Ms C, and I have expressed a preference for 
Morses evidence on the spreadsheet, still I consider that its own information and calculations show 
me that Ms C was not taking other debt and still asking Morses for more. 
And so, I consider that the combination of a lengthy lending relationship where Ms C still needed 
Morses credit and other credit, the percentage of her income being spent on home credit and other 
credit was high, does lead me to think these were unsustainable and harmful for Ms C to be Page 5 of 6constantly offered further loans. At that stage  loan 5 - this would not likely have been the answer for 
Ms C. 
Borrowing consecutively for many months and without any breaks highlights the fact that Ms C was 
likely to be having trouble making ends meet. 
I think that by loan 5 Morses ought to have realised that she was filling a hole left by the repayments 
for the earlier loans. And the repetitive nature of the lending was otherwise unsustainable. 
I think that Ms C lost out because Morses provided loans 5 and 6:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging his indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms C borrowed was likely to have had 
negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, Im planning to uphold the complaint about loans 5 and 6 as and Morses should put things right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have responded and neither has sent to me any further points, evidence or 
submissions. Ms C has agreed with my provisional decision findings and they are repeated 
here. I see no reason to depart from them.
I uphold Ms Cs complaint for loans 5 and 6 for the same reasons.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms C at loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So 
it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has done 
wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms C loans 5 and 6.Page 6 of 6A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms C towards interest,
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms C
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms C originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Ms C the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Ms Cs borrowing for loans 5 and 6 means any information recorded
about them is adverse, so it should remove loans 5 and 6 entirely from Ms Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Cs complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined in the putting things right part of the decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman