DRN-2875681
The complaint
Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) mistakenly made a payment to Mr 
and Mrs C twice after theyd made a claim on their accidental damage and accidental 
staining insurance policy. Mr and Mrs C complain about how Acasta tried to correct the error 
six months later. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had agreed to settle their claim on their accidental damage and accidental 
staining insurance policy with Acasta with a cash settlement of £888.01. 
Acasta sent a cheque to Mr and Mrs C on 4 September 2020. But Mr and Mrs C emailed 
Acasta on 8 September 2020 as theyd not yet received it. On 11 September 2020 Mr and 
Mrs C asked Acasta to pay them using a bank transfer instead. Acasta told Mr and Mrs C 
that the original cheque would need to be cancelled first. 
Acasta arranged for the cheque to be cancelled and the bank confirmed that this had been 
done on 15 September 2020. On 18 September 2020 Mr and Mrs C gave Acasta their bank 
details and the transfer was carried out on 22 September 2020. 
But on 18 March 2021, Acastas accounts team realised that two payments for the 
settlement had gone through. The original cheque had in fact been successfully paid in on 
10 September 2020. Acasta said that Mr and Mrs C had paid the cheque into their bank on 
10 September 2020 but still requested a bank transfer for the same payment on 11 
September 2020. So they called Mr C on 18 March 2021 to ask him to repay the extra 
payment. But Mr C refused. He said he didnt recall receiving two payments. But he said if 
he had it was Acastas error and he wouldnt be paying it back. 
So Acasta wrote to Mr C on 19 March 2021 to explain what could happen if he didnt repay 
the overpayment.
A few days later, Mr C told Acasta the communications hed had with them were threatening 
and had caused him emotional distress. He said he thought the call on 18 March 2021 was a 
scam. He was unhappy that he was being accused of a crime. He asked Acasta to write off 
the mistake and give him compensation for the emotional distress hed suffered. He said 
Acasta hadnt apologised for their mistake.
On 8 April 2021 Acastas accounts team called the bank that had incorrectly confirmed the 
cheque had been cancelled. They acknowledged their mistake and reimbursed Acasta the 
second payment of £888.01. But the bank told Acasta that they would now take this up with 
Mr C.
In their final response letter to Mr C dated 20 April 2021, Acasta didnt uphold his complaint. 
They said they couldnt agree that his actions had been accidental under the circumstances. 
They confirmed that they were no longer asking him to return the money. But noted that the 
bank may follow up with him about it. They said that they would void the two remaining 
polices Mr and Mrs C held with them, with no refund of the policy premium. Acasta also said 
that they would now be contacting the relevant authorities as they considered his actions to 
be a crime under the Fraud Act of 2006.
Unhappy with their response, Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to this service. In his 
initial view, our investigator felt that Acasta has unfairly concluded that Mr C had committed 
a fraudulent act. So he felt that Acasta should reverse their decision to cancel Mr and Mrs 
Cs other policies. He also felt Acasta should reverse their reporting of Mr C under the Fraud 
Act 2006. And he felt Acasta should pay Mr C £150 to compensate him for wrongly reporting 
him under the Fraud Act 2006. He also felt Acasta should let Mr C know what its bank 
intended to do in respect of the second payment.
Acasta didnt agree. They highlighted that theyd received an email from Mr C to request that 
they transferred the money to him a day before he paid the cheque into his bank account. 
And that Mr C had re-sent the email after paying in the cheque. So they felt their subsequent 
actions were justified. But Acasta made a settlement offer to Mr and Mrs C. 
Acasta had offered to refund the premiums for the cancelled policies on a pro rata basis. 
Theyd also offered to cancel any crime reporting. But Acasta couldnt guarantee that the 
bank wouldnt ask Mr and Mrs C for the second payment to be repaid. 
So our investigator issued a second view based on the information Acasta had provided. He 
said that he still didnt think that Mr and Mrs C were trying to benefit twice from the payment. 
But he now understood why Acasta had acted as they had. 
Our investigator outlined Acastas offer to Mr and Mrs C, which he felt was fair. Mr and Mrs 
C didnt accept the settlement offer and asked for an Ombudsman to review their case. So 
their complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr and Mrs C acknowledge that the second payment was made in error 
but refuse to pay it back. They consider that as it was Acastas error that the second 
payment was made, they shouldnt have to return it.
Acasta dont agree. They acknowledge that they were incorrectly informed by the bank that 
the cheque had been cancelled. But theyve told Mr and Mrs C that regardless of whose fault 
it was, any money wrongfully credited can lead to serious consequences. They explained 
what these consequences were in their final response letter. 
Under the circumstances, I dont see anything unreasonable in any of the communications 
from Acasta to Mr and Mrs C about the overpayment. The communications were an accurate 
reflection of the situation.
Having looked at the timeline of events, I agree with our investigator that its not clear that Mr 
and Mrs C were trying to benefit twice from the payment when they took the actions they did. 
Although I do acknowledge Acastas point that it was a perfectly reasonable request to ask 
for repayment of the extra payment. And in keeping the overpayment, its clear that Mr and 
Mrs C have benefitted twice.
I consider that regardless of who made the error, it doesnt mean that Acasta shouldnt be 
able to try to claim back the overpayment. Although I appreciate it wouldve been a shock for 
Mr and Mrs C to be contacted about the overpayment around six months after itd been made, Im not persuaded that this makes any difference to whether it should be paid back or 
not. I can see that Acasta are no longer pursuing Mr and Mrs C for the overpayment as 
theyve been reimbursed by the bank. But I dont consider that Acasta have any reason to 
ask the bank not to pursue Mr and Mrs C for the overpayment. How the bank handle the 
debt is now up to them. So I wont be asking Acasta to do anything about this part of the 
complaint. 
Acastas settlement offer
Acasta have offered to provide a refund for the two cancelled polices. The total refund 
offered is £143.65. Theyve also said that theyll cancel, without prejudice, any crime 
reporting that was carried out.
Im not persuaded that any compensation is due here. Mr and Mrs C couldve prevented all 
of these issues if theyd paid the overpayment back when it was explained to them what had 
happened. While I can see that Acasta couldve apologised for the error when they called to 
tell Mr C what had happened, Ive listened to the call and dont feel that the agent did 
anything wrong. I also note that Acasta did apologise for any upset their communications 
with Mr and Mrs C may have caused in their final response letter. 
Under the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that this is a fair and reasonable 
offer. As I mentioned above, I dont consider that Acasta need to do anything to mitigate any 
actions the bank might take in getting the overpayment back. 
Putting things right
Acasta European Insurance Company Limited should refund Mr and Mrs C £143.65 in 
respect of their two cancelled policies. I also require them to cancel any crime reporting they 
carried out. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Acasta European Insurance Company Limited to refund Mr 
and Mrs C £143.65 in respect of their two cancelled policies. I also require them to cancel 
any crime reporting they carried out. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman