DRN-3980504
The complaint
Mr D and Miss J complain about the customer service U K Insurance Limited trading as 
NatWest Insurance (UKI) provided in connection with a legal expenses insurance (LEI) 
claim. 
As Miss J has been leading on this complaint, for ease, Ive referred to her throughout my 
decision. And any reference to UKI includes the action of its agents.
What happened
The events of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised whats 
happened. 
Miss J has a LEI policy which is underwritten by UKI. It was taken out alongside her 
home insurance policy. 
Following a dispute with a contractor about the quality of their work and damage to 
Miss Js home, she sought to pursue a legal claim using her LEI policy. 
Shortly after, UKI appointed a panel firm of solicitors to deal with Miss Js legal claim 
who determined the legal claim didnt enjoy prospects of success. 
In March 2022, Miss J complained to UKI about the solicitors  explaining theyd 
taken too long to respond to emails, that emails were being sent to an incorrect email 
address and that theyd lost information shed provided.
On receipt of her complaint, UKI forwarded Miss Js concerns to the solicitors and 
closed the complaint. UKI explained this to Miss J in its final response dated 1 March 
2022.
Miss J told UKI in April 2022 that she hadnt heard from the solicitors and was 
unhappy with things. UKI sent another email to the solicitors asking for an update. 
Unhappy, Miss J brought a complaint to this Service.
Whilst the complaint was with us, UKI agreed to offer £100 compensation to reflect 
that it couldve done more to address Miss Js concerns. Our Investigator considered 
this to reasonably reflect the difficulties Miss J had experienced, which included not 
informing Miss J that she could challenge the solicitors legal opinion.
Miss J disagreed and said the compensation doesnt cover the amount of money 
shed spent in putting right the contractors work. So, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached and Ill explain why, but 
first, its worth clarifying what I can and cant consider as part of this complaint. Its clear   
Miss J was unhappy with the service shed received from the panel firm of solicitors as well 
as the legal opinion it had reached - which said her legal claim didnt enjoy reasonable 
prospects of success. However, this Service doesnt have jurisdiction to consider the 
solicitors handling of the legal claim and so, any concerns about this should be directed to 
the Legal Ombudsman.   
I can, however, consider how UKI handled Miss Js claim and her concerns about the 
service it had provided. Ive seen that when Miss J told UKI she was unhappy with the 
solicitor it forwarded her concerns to them  which is what Id expect it to do in the first 
instance. Later, however, when Miss J told them shed still not had an update from the 
solicitor and was unhappy with the service, I would have expected it to have been more 
proactive in obtaining an update  given its last request had been ignored. So, I agree with 
our Investigator that simply re-sending its previous email wasnt sufficient.  
Miss J is unhappy the solicitor said her legal claim didnt enjoy prospects of success and so, 
the legal costs to pursue a claim against her contractor wouldnt be covered by UKI. Its 
important to explain that even if a legal expenses insurer agrees the claim is covered  in 
other words, that there is an insured peril  the acceptance of the claim is subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy being met. 
A standard condition in LEI policies is that the legal claim must enjoy reasonable prospects 
of success throughout the claim. Put another way, the legal claim must have a greater than 
51% chance of success. This was explained to Miss J in a letter from the solicitor which said: 
Your insurer will indemnify you to meet our costs as long as the terms of your legal 
expenses insurance policy are met. It is a term of this policy that your claim must have 
reasonable prospects of success i.e. prospects of 51% or more. 
So, whilst I can understand Miss Js disappointment, as UKI isnt a legal expert, Im satisfied 
it was reasonable for it to rely on the solicitors legal advice which said her claim didnt enjoy 
prospects of success to decline covering the claim. 
I havent seen evidence to show Miss J was told by UKI that she could challenge the 
solicitors legal opinion by either providing new information for the solicitor to consider or by 
providing a legal assessment in her favour by a suitably qualified legal professional. This is 
something I would have expected UKI to do at the time the prospects assessment was given 
- so if Miss J can provide either of these, Id expect UKI to consider this. 
Overall, there were shortcomings with UKIs service, and it has acknowledged this by 
offering £100 compensation  which I consider to be reasonable in the circumstances. Miss 
J has said this doesnt cover the costs shes incurred in putting right the contractors alleged 
faulty work, but thats not what the compensation is intended to do as UKI isnt responsible 
for the contractors work. And the option of obtaining further legal opinion remains with her 
should she wish to challenge the claim decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct service U K Insurance Limited 
trading as NatWest Insurance to pay Mr D and Miss J £100 compensation. It must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr D and Miss J accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman