DRN-1665875
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1999 with a 
store card. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So to keep 
things simple in my decision Ill just say AXA when Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA. 
Mr W says AXA mis-sold him the PPI.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mr W took out in 1999. It was added to his 
account during a sale in a store.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case. 
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
AXA didnt recommend the policy to Mr W, so it didnt have to check it was right for him. But 
it did have to give Mr W information about the PPI that was clear, fair, and not misleading, so 
he could decide for himself whether it was right for him.
This policy excluded claims resulting from a medical condition the customer already knew 
about or recently got advice or treatment for before the policy started. Mr W had such a 
condition, which wouldnt have been covered. But I havent seen sufficient evidence to show 
that this exclusion wouldve been discussed during the sale.
I think the exclusion wouldve mattered to Mr W. From what hes told us, the condition 
predated the sale and had caused him issues in the year prior to the sale such that he 
required medication and significant time off work. So I think Mr Ws conditions wouldve 
mattered to him around the time of the sale and he may have considered his condition to be 
the most likely cause for him to make a claim, given how much it had already affected him. 
But under the policys terms, he couldnt claim for any time off resulting from this condition. 
So he couldnt have claimed on the policy for everything he might have expected to be able 
to.I cant see that AXA gave Mr W clear enough information about the exclusion for pre-existing 
medical conditions at the sale. If it had done, then I think its most likely Mr W would not have 
bought the policy. So I think this PPI policy has been mis-sold.
putting things right
AXA should put Mr W in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mr W would have owed when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr W owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount it owes him. Similarly, if Mr W has already received a refund of the 
commission part of this PPI policy, then AXA can take that off of what it owes him, so that he 
doesnt receive a refund of the same thing twice.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr W would have owed 
when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest rate 
should be 8% simple a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mr W would have owed each month without PPI  he paid 
more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the extra Mr 
W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr W wouldve owed AXA 
something on his store card. The interest rate should again be 8% simple a year.
D. AXA should tell Mr W what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mr 
W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. AXA France IARD should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman