DRN-3112754
The complaint
Mr K complains that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE unfairly cancelled
his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K bought car insurance with Aioi on 22 October 2020. The premium was £1,616.72. The 
policy works on the basis that the original premium covers a certain number of miles for the 
car over the year. Customers then buy extra miles if they exceed the amount they originally 
bought. Mr Ks policy covered him for 8,000 miles annually.
When Aioi checked the policy details, they noticed a discrepancy between the date Mr K 
said hed bought the car and the date on his V5 form from the DVLA. When they contacted 
Mr K, he explained that his parents had purchased the car for him, but it couldnt be 
transferred formally into his name with the DVLA until some months later.
Aioi were perfectly happy with that explanation  and I should be absolutely clear here that 
theres no suggestion Mr K intentionally gave false information or was trying to mislead 
anyone.
However, they asked him to update his policy details on their system to reflect the date the 
car was transferred into his name with the DVLA. And they said that he needed to do so 
before 22 December 2020 or his policy would be cancelled.
Mr K rang Aioi on 21 December 2020. He authorised a representative to talk to Aioi on his 
behalf. She was told that if the correct details were entered, Mr Ks premium would rise by 
£343.
That call dropped whilst the agent put Mr Ks representative on hold to discuss the matter 
with a colleague. The agent tried to call back, but unsuccessfully.
Mr K says it wasnt clear to him after the call that he still needed to update his policy details 
on-line  so he didnt. Aioi cancelled the policy the following day, 22 December 2020. Mr K 
says he didnt receive notification of the cancellation until 30 December 2020.
Mr K had had the policy for around two months. Aioi refunded £467.87 of Mr Ks original 
£1,616.72 premium. They calculated the refund based on the number of miles hed already 
travelled in the car (over 4,700 of the 8,000 he had on his policy) rather than the amount of 
time hed been covered (2 months out of 12).
Mr K contacted Aioi again in early January 2021 to complain about the cancellation. He was 
offered a new policy  with a premium of around £2,475. And Aioi agreed that because of 
the confusion around the cancellation, they wouldnt record and report it as a forced 
cancellation. They also agreed to refund the £80 cancellation fee theyd charged him.
Mr K wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. He also bought 
insurance elsewhere, rather than take up Aiois offer. His premium with his new insurer was 
£2,476.34.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Aioi had acted unfairly when they cancelled 
Mr Ks policy. He thought Aioi should pay Mr K £200 in compensation for his trouble and 
upset. And he thought they should also pay him another £1,156.97, which he calculated to 
be the additional amount Mr K had had to pay for insurance over the year between 
22 October 2020 and 22 October 2021 because of Aiois cancellation of his policy.
Aioi disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I agreed with our investigator that Aioi had treated Mr K unfairly when they cancelled his 
policy. But because I disagreed about the amount Aioi should now pay Mr K, I issued a 
provisional decision. This allowed both Aioi and Mr K the chance to provide any further 
information or evidence and/or to comment on my thinking before I make my final decision 
on this case.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Aioi were entitled to ask Mr K to change the details on his policy. I 
can understand why Mr K answered the question about ownership of the vehicle as 
he did. But once Aioi had checked the policy and advised him that what they were 
really interested in was the date on which he became the registered keeper of the 
vehicle with the DVLA, any confusion or misunderstanding was cleared up, without 
any real detriment to anyone.
Im also satisfied that Aioi made it clear that theyd cancel the policy if Mr K didnt 
update the details on-line. And again, I think they were entitled to do that. They will 
have their own means and methods to calculate the risk of insuring a car  and the 
premium they therefore require.
Its not for me to comment on how those calculations work and what factors Aioi 
regard as important. If a potential customer doesnt like the price theyre offered for 
cover, they can seek cheaper insurance elsewhere. So, if Mr Ks premium would 
have gone up once the correct details were added to the system, thats a matter for 
Aioi and not something Im going to comment on.
So, I dont think Aioi had done anything wrong or treated Mr K unfairly up until the 
phone call on 21 December 2020. I can see why Aioi might be slightly concerned that 
Mr K had chosen not to respond to their earlier communication  or update his policy 
details  until the evening before theyd said they would cancel the policy. However, 
Mr K did call them before that deadline and its fair to say the outcome of that call 
was unclear and confused the situation.
I dont blame Aioi for the phone call dropping out whilst the agent checked things with 
a colleague  that can happen. But its clear that Mr K  and his representative  had 
called to clarify exactly what they needed to do. And its fair to say they might have 
left the half-finished phone call with the impression that the agent was checking whether they really did need to change the policy details and/or with the impression 
that the agent might change those details for Mr K if they needed to be changed.
I suspect all of that would have been clarified if the call had continued. And Mr K 
would have been left in no doubt that he needed to make the changes  and soon. 
However, the call dropped at the crucial point. And the agent hadnt yet given Mr K or 
his representative any certainty about what Aioi wanted them to do.
Aioi tell us  and Ive no reason to doubt this at all  that their agent tried to call Mr K 
back immediately on several numbers, including the one hed called them on and the 
one they had on their database. And there was no reply on any of those numbers.
I can see why that might have been frustrating, but I think on balance it was unfair of 
Aioi to then go ahead and cancel the policy the next day without resuming that 
conversation with Mr K in one form or another.
They might have tried to call him again. And they could have emailed him to warn 
him that the cancellation would still proceed if he didnt change his policy details.
But without getting in touch with Mr K again  and given the uncertain position when 
the phone call dropped - it strikes me that Aioi acted too swiftly to cancel the policy 
the next day. If theyd sent an email clarifying the position and postponed the 
cancellation for a week, for example, I think that would have been a more reasonable 
and fair approach.
So, I agree with our investigator that Aioi didnt treat Mr K entirely fairly. And I agree 
that the suggested £200 compensation is appropriate given the trouble and upset the 
policy cancellation caused for Mr K.
He was no doubt frustrated by Aiois actions following the inconclusive phone call. He 
had to re-arrange insurance for his car at short notice. And he had the stress and 
worry of not knowing how the cancellation might affect him going forward  in 
particular in terms of the cost of future car insurance.
However, I dont agree with our investigators calculation that the cancellation in 
effect cost Mr K £1,156.97, which Aioi should now reimburse.
Essentially, our investigator added up the premiums Mr K had paid to Aioi and to his 
new insurer (from 4 January 2021)  less the refund Aioi had provided when the 
policy was cancelled. That gave a figure Mr K had paid for 14 months cover. He 
compared this to the £1,959.72 Mr K was told his premium would have been (had he 
updated the details on his policy as Aioi requested) for 12 months with Aioi.
This calculation suggested Mr K had paid £1,665.47 more for the cover he had when 
compared to the cost if hed stayed with Aioi. Allowing for the extra two months 
brought this down to a difference of £1,156.97. And thats what our investigator said 
Aioi should pay to Mr K.
I take a slightly different view about how we should calculate the knock-on effects of 
the policy cancellation on Mr K and the additional costs that may have caused him.
Ill explain my thinking on this. But I should reiterate that this is a provisional decision 
and thats because I want both Aioi and Mr K to have an opportunity now to comment 
on my thinking and on the assumptions Im making. And I will of course take any 
comments into account before I make my final decision.In short, Im minded to look at things in the following way.
Mr K paid £1,616.72 for a years insurance with Aioi. This was based on his 
estimation that he would drive 8,000 miles in the car during the 12 months.
By the time the policy was cancelled (after almost exactly two months), Mr K had 
covered more than 4,700 miles in his car. To add 1,000 extra miles to the annual 
mileage costs just over £130 according to the very clear terms and conditions set out 
in Aiois policy documents.
Mr K says he was using the car more than usual in the first two months because he 
had to drive to attend a training course which was further away than his usual 
workplace.
Whilst Ive no reason to doubt that, I can also see from the documents Mr K provided 
that when he bought his new insurance policy  after the training course had finished 
 he told the insurer that he estimated hed cover around 10,000 miles in the year. 
Thats about 830 miles per month.
If we assume the first two months with Aioi were exceptional  at around 2,350 miles 
per month - then add 10 months at Mr Ks own estimate of his more usual on-going 
rate of 830 miles per month  we get 13,000 miles in the year.
Thats 5,000 miles more than the 8,000 miles Mr K had covered with Aioi. And a 
further 5,000 miles (at £130 per 1,000) would have cost Mr K another £650 on top of 
the premium he paid for the 8,000 miles.
Allowing for the correction Aioi would have made once they had the right dates for 
Mr Ks ownership of the car (which would have made his starting premium £1,959.72, 
rather than the £1,616.72 he paid), and adding the extra mileage costs, its not 
unreasonable to assume Mr K would have in fact paid around £2,600 for the years 
cover with Aioi.
So, Mr Ks new insurance doesnt appear to be more costly than he would have paid 
if Aioi hadnt cancelled his policy. And Im not sure the cancellation has therefore had 
any knock-on effect in terms of Mr Ks costs.
Im assuming here  and again, if Im mistaken, either party can correct the 
assumptions Im making when they respond to this provisional decision  that Aioi 
never reported the policy cancellation to the new insurer (either directly or through 
any shared database).
I know Aioi said they wouldnt report any enforced cancellation when Mr K spoke to 
them on 4 January 2021. And Mr Ks new policy documents list the factors which 
impacted his premium  and a previous policy cancellation isnt mentioned in that list.
So, to put it as simply as I can, when Aioi cancelled Mr Ks policy, he was free to 
seek car insurance wherever he wished and to decide what offer  and at what price 
 he wanted to take up.
Im aware Aioi did make him an offer for a new policy, which was slightly cheaper 
than the one he eventually bought, but that was his choice and possibly reflects the 
fact that the relationship with Aioi had broken down by that point.In any case, the key point is that Aiois cancellation of the previous policy had no 
effect whatsoever on the price of Mr Ks new insurance. And any error they made in 
cancelling too hastily didnt result in any consequential financial losses for Mr K. 
Based on the mileage estimate Mr K gave to his new insurer, he would in fact have 
had to pay Aioi more for continuing his policy with them than he ended up paying on 
his new policy.
So, I dont agree with our investigator that Aiois error in cancelling the policy cost 
Mr K £1,156.97 in additional insurance costs. And Im not minded to ask Aioi to 
reimburse him for any such additional costs.
Ill turn now to the refund Mr K received after Aioi cancelled his policy. As I said, this 
amounted to £467.87  less than a third of the £1,616.72 premium Mr K had paid.
If Mr K had had a more traditional car insurance policy (not based on the amount of 
miles driven), he might have expected to receive five-sixths of his original premium 
back if the policy was cancelled after two months (of the 12), less any cancellation or 
administration charge, of course.
Aiois policy is intentionally different to a traditional policy, in that it offers cover for an 
agreed number of miles  with extra fees to top up the mileage if necessary. When it 
comes to cancellation and refunds, the policy terms and conditions document 
(section 12.6) says that when a policy is cancelled, Aioi will return the premium minus 
a cancellation fee and:
a charge on a proportionate basis for the period of policy cover that you 
have already received, or the miles you have used, whichever amount is 
higher
Given that Aiois policies are very clearly and overtly based on the non-traditional 
idea that in effect you pay for your mileage. And given thats clearly impressed on 
potential customers  almost as a selling point in fact. Its then very difficult for me to 
conclude that it would be unfair for Aioi to refund customers after cancellation based 
on the proportion of their agreed mileage theyd already used.
Mr K was  or should have been  aware of the terms and conditions when he 
bought the policy. Theyre not hidden, unclear or ambiguous. And theyre not 
inherently unfair given the distinctive features of this particular policy.
So, in principle, Im satisfied that on balance it wasnt unfair to calculate Mr Ks refund 
on that basis in all of the circumstances. In other words, I dont think it would be fair 
to expect Aioi to refund Mr K five-sixths of his premium because hed only used two 
months of his annual policy, when hed already racked up significantly more than half 
of his agreed mileage.
All of that said, I am slightly at a loss when it comes to understanding the actual 
figure Aioi came to - £467.87.
First of all, let me say Aioi agreed to waive Mr Ks cancellation charge (£80) so that 
doesnt come into play at all.
Mr K drove 4,731 miles. He had an allowance of 8,000 miles on his policy. By my 
calculation, 4,731 is 59.14% of 8,000. So, Mr K had 40.86% of his policy miles left 
when the policy was cancelled.And 40.86% of £1616.72 is £660.59.
Im struggling to find a way to interpret the policy (as quoted above) and/or make the 
calculation to come up with the refund Aioi offered to Mr K - £467.87. It seems to me 
that a refund proportionate with the amount of miles already driven would come to 
£660.59.
So, Im minded to instruct Aioi to pay Mr K £200 in compensation. Plus, an additional 
£192.72 (the difference between the refund Aioi calculated and the refund Mr K 
should have received).
But, for the reasons set out above, Im not minded to ask Aioi to reimburse Mr K for 
any of his costs in purchasing the new policy.
The responses to my provisional decision
Aioi responded to my provisional decision to say they had re-calculated the refund owed to 
Mr K themselves. 
Rather than work with a percentage split of the policy miles used, they calculated the cost 
per mile and then multiplied it by the number of miles Mr K had already driven.
They said their calculation was that they owed Mr K £192.76 as the additional refund on his 
policy, rather than the £192.72 Id calculated (see my provisional decision above).
Mr K also replied to my provisional decision and made a number of points which Ill try to 
summarise.
He says hed actually driven 4,580.93 miles, not the 4,731 Aioi suggested.
He says Aioi should have updated his policy details for him in November 2020 after hed 
explained to them the confusion about the date the car came into his possession. If they 
had, none of this would have happened.
He says Aioi didnt leave messages for him when they tried to call him back on 21 December 
2020. 
He believes his new insurer must have been aware of the policy cancellation when they 
calculated his premium. He says hes now found a quote for the coming years insurance at 
£255.63  which is in stark contrast to the £2,476.34 hes paid for his current policy.
Mr K has provided his own alternative calculations of what the refund should be. I believe 
hes based these on how much he should have paid to his new insurer. To avoid any doubt, 
Ill put it in Mr Ks own words. His responses says hes:
 reduced the (new insurer) premium by the same mileage as Aioi charge to make 
it a total of £2,216 and I feel the refund amount should be at least £480.58 as 
opposed to £192.72
Mr K also says he could cancel his current policy, obtain a proportionate refund, take the 
new quote of £255.63 for the year and be more than £300 better off as a result.
He wants me to re-consider both the amount he ought to be refunded by Aioi and the 
compensation which Id indicated should be £200.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aiois calculation of Mr Ks refund comes out at exactly 4p more than mine. I believe this is 
due to the minor differences in the way we set about making what is in essence the same 
calculation in principle. I have no objection at all to going with Aiois calculation given that it 
is marginally more generous to Mr K.
Ill deal with Mr Ks points in the order theyre set out above.
Aioi said Mr K had driven 4,731 miles based on the information from the black box installed 
in Mr Ks car. I have no reason to doubt thats the correct figure. Mr K hasnt disputed that 
figure before now  and it was quoted in Aiois final response to Mr Ks complaint in February 
2021. 
Given that the car has been driven by Mr K after the cancellation, there is no conceivable 
means of turning up any evidence that would contradict Aiois assessment of the mileage on 
the date of cancellation.
So, I remain satisfied that 4,731 is the correct mileage to use when calculating Mr Ks refund. 
This may not be any great consolation to Mr K, but Id also note that even if I were willing to 
take Mr Ks figure, the small reduction in miles driven would have only a marginal effect on 
the calculation of the refund.
Aioi were entitled, in November 2020, to ask Mr K to update his details through their portal. 
That way of doing business is not inherently unfair. Nor was it the prime factor which caused 
the cancellation of the policy. The policy was cancelled because Mr K didnt update the 
details and because the call on 21 December 2020 ended unexpectedly and without a clear 
conclusion.
Mr K says Aioi could have left messages when they tried to contact him after that call 
dropped. I agree. And I also think  as I said in my provisional decision  they shouldnt have 
cancelled the policy until theyd made further attempts to speak to him. Thats one of the 
reasons Im upholding the complaint and awarding compensation.
Im satisfied Mr Ks new insurer didnt take the cancellation into account when they quoted 
the price for his policy. The letter they sent to Mr K on 4 January 2021 lists the factors that 
impacted Mr Ks premium. There is no mention of the cancellation in that list.
Im not entirely sure how Mr K has re-calculated the refund hes owed by Aioi. Ive quoted 
Mr K himself above because I didnt want to mis-represent his arguments and it wasnt clear 
to me how exactly hed arrived at a further refund around £300 higher than the figure Id 
suggested in my provisional decision.
What is clear though is that Mr K has used his new insurers premiums as the base for 
calculating what he thinks Aioi owe him. I made it as clear as possible in my provisional 
decision that because Aiois cancellation hadnt affected Mr Ks new policy, I wasnt going to 
hold them to account in any way for what the new policy had cost Mr K. Nothing Mr K as said has changed my mind on that point. My calculations were based on 
what proportion of his cover with Aioi Mr K had used by the time the policy was cancelled. 
They were entitled to charge him for the cover hed used (that is, almost 60% of the mileage 
hed paid for). Thats 60% of what Aioi charged Mr K  not what his new insurer charged him 
or may have charged him had the circumstances been different. 
In other words, the new insurers premium isnt the base for calculating the refund owed to 
Mr K. Nor does it in any way impact the calculation of that refund. The only relevant factor is 
what proportion of his cover with Aioi Mr K had used  and accordingly what proportion of 
the premium he actually paid to them he gets back.
Mr K says he can now get insurance for £255.63 per year. Hes sent us a copy of the 
invitation to take up that offer. That invitation doesnt appear to indicate exactly what cover is 
on offer. In any case, of course, Mr Ks premium will be lower now than it was a year or so 
ago. Hes been driving for that period of time, presumably without incident. 
The price Mr K can get for insurance now has no bearing on his complaint against Aioi. He 
bought the Aioi policy knowing the premium and the cover provided. This complaint is about 
what happened when that policy was cancelled and the refund offered to Mr K.
In summary, for the reasons Ive set out, Im not going to change the outcome set out in my 
provisional decision other than to increase the additional refund payment to Mr K by 4p, as 
suggested by Aioi.
Putting things right
I remain satisfied that Aioi should pay Mr K £200 for his trouble and upset. And they should 
pay an additional refund of £192.76 to reflect the proportion of his cover that Mr K had used 
by the time the policy was cancelled. Aioi also tell me they havent yet been able to refund 
the £80 cancellation fee as yet, so they will need to pay that now too.
Aioi tell me they need Mr Ks bank account details in order to be able to make the necessary 
payment. Ill leave it to them to contact Mr K to obtain those details.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE must pay Mr K £200 for his trouble and 
upset plus an additional refund of £192.76. They must also refund his £80 cancellation fee.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman