DRN-2754055
The complaint
Miss H complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited mis-sold her 
two whole-of-life policies that didnt give her the protection she wanted and werent properly 
explained to her.
 
In making her complaint, Miss H is represented by a claims management company.
What happened
In 1996, Miss H met with an adviser from a predecessor business of Sun Life of Canada to 
discuss her protection needs. The adviser recommended that Miss H should start a unit-
linked whole-of-life policy which included critical illness cover of £50,000 and waiver of 
premium benefit. The initial premium was £30 but this would increase by 10% each year for 
the first five years. Miss H retained the policy until 2005, when she cancelled it.
In 2000, Miss H had a further meeting, again to discuss her protection needs. The adviser 
recommended another whole-of-life policy with critical illness cover of £20,000. The policy 
included an operation recovery benefit of £10,000 payable in the event Miss H underwent a 
specified operation that was covered by this benefit. The policy had an initial premium of 
£15.70, but this was reviewed every five years leading to an increase in the premium.
 
Miss H made a claim under the operation recovery benefit in 2004, which was declined as 
the operation wasnt covered by the policy, and then made a claim in 2010, which was paid 
to her. 
In 2019, Miss Hs representatives complained on her behalf. They said that Miss H didnt 
need the whole-of-life policies for inheritance tax and that she required cover to pay off her 
mortgage. They said she wanted a plan to cover funeral expenses and she wanted to protect 
her family and dependents. They said she wasnt aware that a proportion of her premiums 
were being invested and she wasnt willing to take any risk with her money.
 
Sun Life of Canada said that Miss H hadnt taken out her policies for inheritance tax 
purposes or for funeral expenses, and she didnt have a mortgage at the time the first policy 
was sold. It said Miss H had wanted critical illness cover that would be enough to repay her 
debts and provide some financial assistance for future needs. It said that critical illness cover 
couldnt have been included with a term assurance policy; and she required the operation 
recovery benefit when she met with the adviser in 2000. Sun Life of Canada said that the 
recommendations to start these policies were appropriate for her at the time and provided a 
suitable means of providing protection.
Miss H said that she had only wanted life cover and hadnt heard of critical illness cover. She 
felt the adviser hadnt listened to her and wasnt concerned about her needs. She just 
wanted a basic insurance policy  it wasnt made clear to her that the policy was unit-linked 
or invested in the stock market. She said that, in 2000, the adviser had decided to make 
changes to Miss Hs policy  she just signed the paperwork she was told to. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that there wasnt anything in the sales documentation to show that Miss H was sold the 
policies for an inheritance tax liability or for funeral costs. He said that he thought it was 
reasonable to have recommended the whole-of-life policies for Miss Hs circumstances as 
she required both life and critical illness cover.
 
In relation to the advice in 2000, the investigator said that there had been a discussion about 
a shortfall in the amount of life cover Miss H felt she needed to help her family maintain their 
standard of living. He said that the documentation showed Miss Hs attitude to investment 
risk was discussed and gave projections of the policys value based on investment growth. 
The investigator said that the suitability letter noted that Miss H didnt have a shortfall in 
critical illness cover but that she wanted this included, along with the operation recovery 
benefit to provide a lump sum if Miss H had to undergo one of the specified procedures. And 
he said that she had been able to successfully claim for this. 
Miss Hs representatives didnt accept the investigators findings. They said she didnt agree 
she understood and had requested the additional benefits on her policies. She said that the 
adviser had designed and tailored the benefits to what they believed she needed. She 
wouldnt have considered taking out these benefits at her age. She said she didnt complete 
the forms and only signed where she was told to. She only wanted to take out life insurance 
to pay for funeral expenses and nothing else. The representatives asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, I find Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for much the 
same reasons. 
 
Ive looked through the documentation completed at the time of the advice in 1996. Miss Hs 
needs and circumstances were discussed, and how important certain considerations were 
for her. This included protection for her dependents if she died, which is noted as being 
very important, and also that it was fairly important to her that her income could be 
replaced if she became seriously ill or disabled. 
The information Ive seen doesnt suggest that the recommendation of this whole-of-life 
policy was made for inheritance tax purposes, as Miss Hs representatives have complained, 
and it also doesnt show that she had a mortgage at the time, as she was renting. Instead, 
the advisers notes about the reasons why this recommendation was made to Miss H say 
that her priority was family protection.
In 2000, Miss H met again with the adviser for a financial review. The documentation from 
this meeting notes that Miss H felt that she had a shortfall in the life cover she needed. The 
recommendation was for her to take a further whole-of-life policy which provided life and 
critical illness cover of £20,000. The reasons why letter says this was because she wanted 
to provide on-going cover throughout her life, and for the policy to have sufficient flexibility to 
be able to add further benefits in the future. It also notes that Miss H didnt have a shortfall in 
her requirements for critical illness cover, as this was provided by her existing policy:
I have made you aware of the fact that you do not have a shortfall in the area of critical 
illness cover but you have specified that you wish to include this benefit along with your 
additional requirements for life cover. This particular plan also included the operation recovery benefit, which would pay out a cash 
sum if Miss H had to undergo a specified surgical procedure. She was able to make use of 
this benefit when her claim was paid out in 2010. 
I appreciate what Miss H has said about the adviser tailoring the policy benefits to what they 
thought she needed. But the recommendations they made were based upon discussions 
about Miss Hs needs and circumstances at that time. I also acknowledge what shes said 
about it being the advisers suggestion that she cancel her policy in 2005. It isnt clear from 
the available information what led Miss H to make this decision. However, I can see that she 
has signed to request the cancellation and received a surrender value of just over £480. 
Miss Hs attitude to investment risk was assessed in both 1996 and in 2000. The information 
from 1996 said that the policy was designed primarily to provide financial protection in the 
event of death or disability. It also accumulates a cash fund from which the deductions 
(described later) are taken. So although I appreciate her points about the risk of the 
investment, the aim of her particular policies was to meet her protection needs. I also think 
that the policy documentation from both 1996 and 2000 explains how the premiums are 
invested.
Although Miss H may have pension and death-in-service benefits from her employment. I 
dont think this in itself means that these whole-of-life policies were unsuitable for her. And 
these benefits are noted in the fact find documentation, which suggests that they were 
considered when the recommendations were made.
Taking everything into account, I dont think these whole-of-life policies were mis-sold to 
Miss H as I think they matched was she was looking for at the time of the advice.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman