DRN-2118758
The complaint
Mr O says he hasnt received fair redress from The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (Royal London) for the unsuitable advice he received to transfer from his 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits into CIS Section 32 personal pension.
Mr O is represented by Fair Return Legal Services Limited (FR).
What happened
In 1990 Mr O received advice from Royal London (trading as CIS) to transfer his OPS 
benefits into a Section 32 personal pension policy.
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board (SIB), established 
an industry-wide review of certain pension business carried out by authorised firms between 
29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. It was generally known as the "Pensions Review". 
Consumers were invited to have a review  the intention being to avoid the need for them to 
bring complaints later about what had happened.
Royal London wrote to Mr O and offered him a review of his pension transfer. He agreed and 
the exercise took place 2000. It wrote to him on 21 November of that year with the results of 
the review which had compared the benefits of his OPS with those projected to be delivered 
by his personal pension plan. The letter set out the analysis it had undertaken and 
concluded:
From our calculation we have determined that the value of the benefits that would have 
been paid by your previous scheme is greater than the value of the benefits provided by your 
CIS Option 32 policy.
To put matters right Royal London proposed:
We are offering to pay an additional pension of £191.76 per annum with effect from 16th 
December 2000 until you reach age 65. The pension will be paid calendar monthly in 
advance and is in addition to the pension currently being paid to you. The benefits payable 
from age 65 under the policy are unaffected by this additional temporary pensionCIS 
considers that the offer contained in this letter meets the requirements that PIA has laid 
down for making appropriate redress.
Mr O signed a form on 24 November 2000 accepting Royal Londons offer in settlement of 
the matter.
In July 2019 Mr Os representative complained to Royal London on his behalf. It said the 
original advice to transfer had been unsuitable and that the redress it had provided had been 
inadequate. It said this Service would have to consider the merits of Royal Londons advice 
to Mr O to transfer out of his OPS, even though it had already been subject to the Pensions 
Review. And that Royal London should use the Financial Conduct Authoritys latest redress 
guidelines to make sure he was put back into the position hed have been in had he not 
transferred his pension.
Royal Londons response to the complaint was that the original advice for Mr O to transfer 
his OPS had already been reviewed and the matter settled through the Pension Review 
carried out in 1997. It said the complaint had been brought out of time.
The Investigator concluded that because Mr O hadnt been aware - and that nor ought he 
have been reasonably aware - of cause for complaint more than three years prior to his case 
being made to Royal London, this Service could consider the merits of his case. I agree with 
his analysis and conclusion.
The Investigator went on to review Mr Os complaint and he didnt uphold it. FR disagreed 
with his findings  during the journey with this Service I note it has added to its argument. 
The main points it has made are that:
- The FCA's 2017 FG17/9 Guidance stipulated that it was that guidance which should 
be used to determine appropriate redress where a firm did not review the relevant 
pension transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards or requirements 
applicable for the review of the transaction at the time.
- The applicable regulatory standards were set out in SIBs "Pension Transfers and 
Opt Outs - Review of Past Business Part II: Specification of Standards and 
Procedures". FR says Royal London has made various errors in its review 
calculations, for example it raised questions about the:
oAssumption that had Mr O remained in his OPS he wouldve retired at age 55. 
It says this wasnt permitted by the SIB rules at the time.
oLoss assessment which was conducted on an actual rather than prospective 
basis, which it said was incorrect because Mr O hadnt reached the scheme's 
normal retirement date.
oRedress calculations, which showed a loss of nearly £31,000, yet its proposal 
to put things right only yielded an additional annual pension of around £191.
So, Mr Os complaint has been passed to me to review and to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wheres theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why, focussing on the main arguments made 
by FR as its position has evolved in response to the Investigators views.The Pension Review
The Pension Review was designed to be a one-off exercise and was implemented to rectify 
widespread mis-selling and to put customers back as far as reasonably possible into the 
position they wouldve been in had they not received inappropriate advice.
The methodology for putting things right was set by the regulator of the time. The financial 
business firstly had to determine whether it was possible for the customer to be reinstated 
into their previous defined benefit scheme. If that wasnt possible, the financial business 
needed to assess the financial loss and pay a lump sum pension contribution.
Several assumptions, based on what the regulator thought were fair at the time, were used 
in the redress calculations  including the expected future growth rate of the pension funds 
to produce the required benefits at retirement.
In many cases the assumed growth rates used in the calculations didnt materialise. This, 
combined with annuity rates falling, had an impact on the benefits provided by personal 
pensions. So, although it was thought the compensation paid following the Pension Review 
plus the existing value of the pension would be high enough to match the OPS benefits at 
retirement, this hasnt been the case for many consumers.
However, this Service wouldnt ask a firm to re-calculate a consumers loss because the 
compensation previously paid didnt in the end make up for the loss theyve now suffered. 
That would effectively mean re-running the Pension Review. So, while FR might be correct 
that the redress Mr O accepted in 2000 didnt put him in the same position he wouldve been 
in but for the transfer of his pension, that doesnt mean I should direct a reassessment of the 
compensation hes received.
I recognise that many people like Mr O will feel this is unfair. But changing market conditions 
that werent foreseen when the Pension Review was being undertaken, isnt a reason for this 
Service to require settlements made under that process to be undone and recalculations 
made.
The Review was designed to provide finality to both parties and to draw a line under the 
matter  businesses could provide redress for mis-selling knowing that they wouldnt be 
liable for future compensation; and consumers could be reassured that the mis-selling had 
been recognised and put right at that point in time using what were considered to be 
reasonable assumptions without the need to revisit the matter many years later.
The new FCA guidance for reviewing pension transfers
In 2017 the FCA issued new guidance  known as FG17/9. This was designed for 
complaints upheld about occupational pension scheme transfers received after 3 August 
2016 or for complaints received before this date that hadnt been dealt with in full and final 
settlement already.
It was initially envisaged that any case that fell within the Pension Review period would be 
excluded from the updated guidance. But after the consultation period, FG17/9 said some 
cases could be included  where the financial business didnt review the relevant pension 
transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards at the time and/or where the 
particular circumstances of the case werent addressed by those standards.
Mr Os representative says the review carried out by Royal London in 2000 wasnt done 
correctly, for the reasons Ive already set out. It says this shows its review was invalid and so 
the redress due to Mr O should be recalculated using the FG17/9 guidelines.Royal Londons position is that it had already settled the matter in respect of the unsuitable 
advice as part of the Pension Review, which it had carried out according to the requirements 
of the regulators at the time.
I think its helpful at this point to set out this Services usual approach when errors have been 
found in Pension Review calculations. For example, where an incorrect date of birth, sex, 
marital status, pension transfer value has been used  I would normally direct the business 
involved to correct that error (but as at the date of the review, not now).
This is because the Pension Review bulletin five said that where an offer was made and 
accepted in good faith and it was later found the calculation contained an error, the re-
calculation should be done using the same effective date as the original calculation.
Royal Londons approach to Mr Os Pension Review calculation  prospective or actual loss 
method?
FR says that the review in 2000 wasnt carried out correctly. It told us:
What is also clear is that, unless [Mr O] had reached the scheme's normal retirement date 
or had died (he had not done either), the applicable loss assessment to be carried out was a 
prospective loss calculation, not an actual loss calculation. For the purposes of the Pensions 
Review, taking benefits from the personal pension that the occupational scheme benefits 
had been transferred into did not class as "retiring". This is well-known and beyond doubt.
Ive considered what the relevant guidance said about carrying out a loss assessment under 
the Pension Review. SIB Pension Transfers and Opt Outs: Review of Past Business (the 
SIB Review): Part II: Specification of Standards and Procedures. The relevant sections are 
(bolding is my emphasis):
405 There are two types of possible loss:
(a)Actual financial loss: When an event (such as death or retirement) has 
already occurred giving rise to benefits and the benefits from the personal 
pension are less than those the occupational scheme would have conferred.
(b)Prospective financial loss: Where the investor (or his/her spouse or 
dependants) is exposed to the probability of an actual financial loss 
when an event such as death or retirement occurs in the future.
406 The reviewer should test for either actual financial loss or prospective financial 
loss, depending on whether or not the investor has died or retired at the date of 
the review. It should not be necessary to test for both.
411 When: Test for loss as at the date of crystallisation i.e. death or actual retirement - 
including early retirement.
FR has said section 405 and 411 (referred to above) are not relevant as Mr O had not retied. 
It argued that retirement refers to the normal retirement date of a plan. And so, a 
prospective loss calculation should be used. I disagree.
Actual loss calculations are appropriate where early retirement is taken, as stated in SIB 
Review rule 411. The initial SIB guidance and the later updates make several references to 
retirement and early retirement equating to benefit crystallisation and taking benefits. Its 
clear this use of the word retirement is referring to the industry term  which is about taking 
benefits from a pension. And not retirement in the sense of retiring from all work.The way I interpret early retirement is the way expert actuarial firms - which were setup 
specifically to carry out these calculations - did so. And in my experience, this is how other 
firms within the industry interpreted it as well.
Further, the various regulatory bodies carried out checks throughout the Pension Review 
process (and these circumstances are not uncommon), yet no guidance was issued to the 
contrary about this method. In fact, additional guidance supports that partially taking benefits 
should be treated as retirement and the assumption can be made that benefits wouldve 
been taken under the OPS at that date.
It follows that Im not persuaded by the arguments FRs has made here.
On a related point FR said:
In the calculation, Royal London assumed that had he remained in [his OPS], [Mr O] would 
have retired at age 55. This was not permitted by the SIB specifications applicable at the 
time: 
Retirement age:
Use the earlier of:
Normal Retirement Age in the former scheme; or
The earliest age the member could have retired without company/trustee consent and be 
guaranteed not to suffer a reduction in accrued pension for early payment.
The problem for FR is that its drawn on the guidance for a prospective loss assessment. 
The PIA Guidance for Review of Past Business 1995 (Transfers - Guidance on Technical 
Matters - Actual Loss Assessment, p120-121), notes (bolding is my emphasis):
3. Date of Crystallisation
Where the event is retirement, the date of crystallisation is the date with effect from 
which the pension first commenced from the personal pension. The date of 
crystallisation is used to determine the benefits valued in the loss assessment
5. Investor Options
Where the investor has exercised an option e.g. to retire early or to commute part of 
his pension for cash at retirement and equivalent options were available under the 
occupational scheme it should be assumed that the investor would have taken equivalent 
action to satisfy the same needs had he not transferred.
In the case of early retirement at an age not normally allowed by the scheme 
trustees, the value used should be the value of occupational scheme benefits that 
would have been available had the investor not transferred. Alternatively, a fair 
approximation to the benefits the scheme might have allowed on early retirement 
may be used
Mr O crystallised the benefits from his personal pension in July 2000, when he was 50. He 
took tax-free cash (TFC) and an annuity. The arrangement also provided for an increase in 
his annual pension income when he reached 65 to take into account his Guaranteed 
Minimum Pension (GMP).
So, the date used by Royal London to value Mr Os personal pension was July 2000 when 
he accessed his benefits. While he wouldnt receive the GMP element of his retirement 
income until 65, once hed crystallised his fund taking his TFC and an annuity - effectively 
there was no fund left with the provider. The policy had vested. And I think it is logical that 
this is the valuation date used and this is in line with the Pension Review guidance.With regards to valuing his former OPS benefits, Royal London noted Mr O wouldnt have 
been able to retire as early from his former scheme as he was able to with his personal 
pension. So, under the Pension Review guidelines the OPS benefits shouldve been valued 
at what they wouldve been had Mr O not transferred or a fair approximation of what the 
benefits wouldve been had the OPS allowed early retirement. The earliest date Mr O 
couldve taken retirement was assumed as 55. Royal London told us:
There must have been a reason for [Mr O] retiring early, either he was actually retiring, he 
needed the money to supplement his income or he wanted the tax free lump sum to pay for 
a holiday/project etc. This situation would still have arisen regardless of whether he had 
transferred to CIS and if [his OPS] allowed early retirement at age 50 the calculation would 
have been done assuming he retired at that date.
As [Mr Os] scheme only allowed early retirement (not ill health) from age 55 for leavers 
prior to 01/07/1986it has been assumed he would have retired at the first available 
opportunity. The claim that we have drastically undervalued benefits is also false. Due to the 
generous [reduction factors] used by the scheme (16% for 7 years) and the financial 
assumptions in place at the time the value of the benefits based on retiring at age 62 are 
less than those produced in the original calculation. So much so that it would have made the 
original calculation a no loss and no redress would have been paid.
I think Royal London (or its actuaries) made fair assumptions, adhered to the guidance of the 
time and appear to have arrived at a reasonable outcome for him in the circumstances.
Finally, FR made a challenge on the basis that a loss figure of nearly £31,000 shown in the 
pension review calculations translated into an additional annual pension for Mr O of only 
£191. As the Investigator explained, the loss figure it highlighted failed to take into account 
the value of the benefits that hed received, and which were due under his personal pension 
in the future.
This Service isnt a checking service, we dont employ actuaries to check Pension Review 
calculations. However, Ive considered the information we do have  and endeavoured to 
understand what Royal London and its actuaries did at the time and why. And Ive then 
compared that with the relevant guidelines. Having done so, the calculation appears in line 
with the guidelines set out and theres nothing obviously wrong. Neither has FR been able to 
effectively evidence any such problem.
The Pension Review process was subject to strict internal and external controls. The 
regulator checked a sample of cases from firms to make sure that they were carrying out the 
review process correctly. And had there been a problem with a particular approach taken 
then, I think the regulator wouldve addressed this at the time.
Summary
The Pension Review was a one-off exercise and Mr O agreed a full and final settlement in 
respect of the unsuitable advice hed received. While the passage of time might suggest the 
compensation he agreed to doesnt match his actual loss, I havent seen anything which 
makes me think Royal London didnt act fairly in conducting the review of its original 
transaction with Mr O from 1990, or in settling matters with him in 2020.
So, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to require The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman