DRN-3881647
The complaint
Mr F complains about Eridge Underwriting Agency Ltd has unfairly declined his motor 
insurance claim.
All references to Eridge also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr F feels very strongly about whats happened and I can understand why this 
means a lot to him. He has my natural sympathy for the unpleasant experience of being a 
victim of theft and I want to assure him Ive thought about everything hes said very carefully.
But my decision focusses on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. I dont intend 
any discourtesy to Mr F in doing this. It just reflects the informal nature of our service and my 
role in it.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute the vehicle was modified. Mr F confirmed he did so after hed 
purchased it, over a period of around six months. The modifications were almost 
complete, but the vehicle was then stolen.
The policy sets out Eridge must be notified about any changes which could affect 
cover. This isnt an unusual term and is a common general condition in most 
insurance policies. In this case, the policy also mentions all changes made from the 
manufacturers standard specification must be disclosed.
Ive also seen a copy of the documents Mr F was provided when he transferred his 
cover to his new vehicle. This includes a policy adjustment form summarising the 
details provided by Mr F. One of the questions summarised on the form, on page 
one, is whether the vehicle had been modified (and at this point, it hadnt). 
Underneath, in bold, it asks if the vehicle has been altered from the manufacturers 
standard specification and specifies:
 All changes from the manufacturers standard specification must be disclosed.
So, taking the above into account, I think Eridge made it sufficiently clear Mr F 
needed to make it aware of any changes to the vehicle. And considering the 
modifications made to the vehicle I do think it altered it significantly from its original 
state.
Ive also considered Mr Fs comments about the timing of when he was specifically 
required to update Eridge. But the policy simply sets out he needed to make them 
aware, and he didnt. If Mr F had made Eridge aware at any point in the time leading 
up to the vehicles theft, perhaps the situation would be different, depending on what 
modifications had already been made. But this isnt what happened  and I can only 
focus on what did happen.
From reviewing Eridges Underwriting Criteria I can see had it been made aware of 
the modifications, it wouldnt have accepted the risk and declined to continue offering 
cover to Mr F. 
Eridge is entitled to decide what risks it will and wont cover under the policy. I 
appreciate the circumstances of this theft wouldve been very upsetting for Mr F and 
have had an impact long after it happened. But what I need to decide here is whether 
Eridge has acted in line with the policy terms and if its decision to decline the claim is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And having reviewed everything available 
to me, and for the reasons Ive set out, I think it has done so.
Mr F is concerned his medical history was a consideration in his claim being 
declined. Ive listened to the call of an interview between Eridge and Mr F. I can see, 
his medical history was briefly discussed, but this was initiated by Mr F, not Eridge. 
Mr F said Eridge were looking for reasons to decline his claim. But Ive also looked at 
the further questions Eridge asked Mr F following the interview, and I while I agree 
some of these werent related to modifications, I dont consider them unusual or 
unreasonable as part of Eridges investigations. 
However, the claim has been declined concerning the modifications only. And I dont 
think Eridge has acted incorrectly in how it has dealt with the claim, or is it obviously 
wrong in its decision to decline the claim for the reasons it has, and to cancel Mr Fs 
policy.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman