DRN-4105880
The complaint
Mrs A complains on behalf of E (a limited company) that Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited (trading as Cashplus) wont refund money she lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mrs A is a director of A, a limited company which has an account with Cashplus. In June 
2022, she received a phone call from someone claiming to be an employee of Her Majestys
Revenue and Customs (HMRC). She was told that she owed tax in relation to the activities 
of E. She was told that if she didnt pay the outstanding tax and fees, shed be arrested and 
face criminal prosecution.
Mrs A believed she was speaking with an employee of HMRC and so she agreed to make a
payment. She went on to make eight transfers from her account with Cashplus, totalling 
£8,983. 
Unfortunately, she wasnt dealing with a legitimate representative of HMRC, but a scammer. 
She realised she must have fallen victim to a scam when she spoke to a friend about what 
had happened later that day. She contacted Cashplus to let it know, and Cashplus contacted 
the recipient banks to see if any funds remained, but was only able to recover £4. And, 
ultimately, Cashplus didnt agree that it had any obligation to refund any further money to Es 
account, it said the payments had not been unusual enough to trigger its fraud detection 
systems.
Mrs A was unhappy with this and so she referred a complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into what had happened, and they felt that Cashplus should have 
realised by the fourth payment that something untoward might be going on and that E could 
be at risk of financial harm. So they felt Cashplus should have contacted Mrs A to ask 
questions about the payments before agreeing to process any more of them. The 
Investigator thought that, if this had been done, it would have come to light that Mrs A had 
been targeted by a scammer.
The Investigator also considered whether Mrs A should bear some responsibility for Es loss.
The felt that Mrs A had not done enough to ensure she was speaking with a legitimate 
representative of HMRC, and that other inconsistencies in what she was being asked to do 
should have flagged to her that something suspicious might be going on. So the Investigator 
found that E should bear partial responsibility for the loss here, and recommended that 
Cashplus refund 50% of the payments made from the fourth payment (inclusive) onwards, 
plus 8% interest.
Mrs A, on behalf of E, accepted the Investigators findings, but Cashplus disagreed. It 
maintained that the payments were not unusual enough to have been flagged by its fraud 
systems, and said that, in any case, given the red flags that Mrs A had ignored it did not 
belove any further warnings would have been effective at stopping the scam. 
As no agreement could be reached, this case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator and for the same 
reasons.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs A authorised the disputed payments. And the starting position is 
that Mrs A (on behalf if E) is responsible for transactions shes carried out herself (even as a 
result of deception). However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider Cashplus should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
With this in mind, Cashplus therefore needed to be on the lookout for payments that were 
out of character and where there was a greater risk of fraud. 
I accept that the first few payments may not have been out of character enough to flag to 
Cashplus that something might be wrong. The transactions on Es account were generally 
low value, but there had been some larger payments in the previous year. However, I agree 
with our investigator that by the time of the fourth payment, Cashplus should have realised 
something untoward might be going on. Ms A had made multiple payments, over a short 
space of time, to new payees. The fourth payment would have meant Ms A had made 
payments totalling nearly £4,000 in around an hour, and this was not normal activity for Es 
account.
So I think that by the time Ms A had attempted to make this fourth payment in quick 
succession, Cashplus ought to have realised that there was a risk that shed been targeted 
by a fraudster. And it should not have processed the fourth payment until it contacted Mrs A 
to satisfy itself there was no risk of fraud. On balance, I think its likely that, if Mrs A had been 
asked about this payment, Cashplus wouldve been able to uncover that shed been targeted 
by a fraudster and so prevented her from making that payment or any of the following 
payments. 
I say this because Mrs A doesnt appear to have been given any cover story by the 
scammers, so I think its likely shed have been honest about why she was making the 
payment if asked. And given that this type of scam is well known in the industry, I think 
Cashplus would then have been in a position to explain the risk Mrs A had been exposed to. 
I acknowledge that there were already red flags that Mrs A could have picked up on 
regarding this being a scam. But I dont think that means she would have continued to make 
the payments if shed been told outright by Cashplus that this was likely not legitimate 
contact from HMRC.I do though agree with our Investigators finding that by the time of the fourth payment Mrs A 
probably ought to have recognised the risk that this wasnt a genuine contact from an HMRC 
employee herself. The way she was told to make the payments and the types of accounts 
the payments were made to should have caused her to question the legitimacy of what she 
was being asked to do. And Ive not seen anything to show that she took steps to verify that 
she was speaking to a legitimate representative of HMRC, I also note that the letter she 
received (via email) that purported to be from HMRC contained numerous grammatical and 
spelling errors. So, with all this in mind, I think its fair and reasonable for E to bear 
responsibility for 50% of the loss.
Lastly, Im satisfied that Cashplus did what it could to recover the funds. Once it had been 
told of the fraud it contacted the recipient banks straight away, its just unfortunate that the 
vast majority of the funds had already been moved on by that stage.
So, in summary, I consider that Cashplus could have done more to prevent this fraud from 
the fourth payment made onwards, but find that E should also bear some responsibility for 
the financial loss here. I therefore consider that Cashplus should refund 50% of the 
payments made from the fourth payment onwards.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Cashplus should:
- Refund to E 50% of the payments from the fourth payment onwards (inclusive)  
representing a refund of £2,995
- Pay 8% interest on this amount from 9 June 2022 to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus) should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman