DRN-3397539
The complaint
In summary, the representatives of the estate of Mr M, complain that Scottish Widows 
Limited (SW), purchased an annuity with Mr Ms pension on his 75th birthday. 
What happened
The complaint has been brought by the representatives of the estate of Mr M. Although 
correspondence referred to below has often been with one of the representatives, for ease of 
reference Ive referred to representatives in this decision. Ive set out below a summary of 
what I consider to be the key facts and events.
In October 2020 one of the representatives contacted SW to tell it about Mr Ms death. SW 
told the representatives that an annuity had been in payment to Mr M, but the payments 
ceased on his death. It also said Mr M had another annuity. This had a five-year guarantee 
which meant the payments would be made to Mr Ms beneficiary  which SW decided was 
Mrs M.
The representatives asked SW for information about the policy and what steps it had taken 
to locate Mr M. They didnt think SW had taken sufficient steps to trace Mr M, and that the 
full value of his pension prior to it being used to purchase an annuity, should be paid to Mrs 
M  rather than the remaining annuity payments. 
In its response to their concerns, SW wrote to Mrs M. It said it was arranging for a cheque to 
be sent to her in the sum of £125, in respect of the delays in providing the policy information 
the representatives had asked for. It went on to explain why it wasnt upholding the 
complaint about the starting of the annuity. It said that as no instructions had been received 
by Mr Ms 75th birthday, it had no option but to start an annuity. 
SW also said it had written to Mr M in April 2018, November 2019 and March 2020 regarding 
his approaching 75th birthday and the consequences of it not receiving an instruction. And it 
went on to say that it had not had any prior communication from Mr M of a change of 
address. It only became aware of this when outgoing mail was returned to it in May 2020.
The complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. She explained why she didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In essence, she didnt think SW had done anything 
wrong by purchasing an annuity for Mr M, after he had turned 75 and it not having heard 
from him. She didnt think SW had any reason to think he hadnt received the letters it had 
sent him in advance of his 75th birthday, or that he had moved address. She thought SW had 
acted correctly in paying the remaining benefits under the five-year guarantee to Mrs M.  
The representatives wrote to the investigator. In summary: 
They thought SW should have done more to get hold of Mr M.  
They had been given incorrect information about no annuity having been purchased. 
They referred to the FCA publication Fair treatment of long-standing customers 
FG16/8 guidance. They didnt think SW had followed this guidance. 
They wanted to see evidence that that SW had received notification on 22 May 2020, 
that Mr M was no longer living at the address it had for him. 
They didnt find the time taken to provide the information that had been requested, or 
the compensation offered to be acceptable. 
They wanted to see copies of the correspondence sent to Mr M. They thought track 
and trace attempts for Mr M should have been put in earlier. 
The investigator requested copies of the statements sent to Mr M by SW. These were then 
sent to the representatives by the investigator. She explained that the correspondence had 
been sent by SW to the address it had on file. And she thought it was a policy holders 
responsibility to ensure that contact details were updated. At the point SW became aware 
Mr M was no longer at the address it had for him; the annuity had already been purchased. 
So, if a trace had been implemented straight away it would have been too late to take the 
pension as a lump sum. 
The representatives didnt agree with the investigators answer. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me for review.
I asked the investigator to obtain further information from the representatives. And I also 
asked SW for information about the information it sent to Mr M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that the representatives are unhappy that SW set up an annuity with Mr Ms 
pension fund and didnt attempt to trace him before doing so. And I do understand and 
empathise that dealing with this issue after Mr Ms death, is likely to have been upsetting for 
them. And I want to express my condolences for their loss. 
 
In reaching my decision, I havent commented on every point of concern the representatives 
have raised. I dont intend to offend them by not doing so or mean any disrespect to them in 
taking this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on the key issues I think I need to consider, in 
deciding on whether or not SW did anything wrong in converting Mr Ms pension into an 
annuity. 
SW has said that the terms of Mr Ms pension meant that he had to take his pension by age 
75. Ive reviewed the policy document. And term 9.3 says that if at the selected retirement 
date instructions havent been received from the member, the day before the members 75th 
birthday will be deemed to be the selected pension date. And term 9.4 says if the member 
attains age 75 but no request has been received by SW, then the whole of the value of the 
pension calculated in line with the policy terms, will be applied to secure a pension for the 
member. 
Im satisfied therefore that the policy terms for Mr Ms pension, provided for an annuity to be 
purchased for him at age 75, if no instruction to take benefits had been received from him by 
then. And the provisions set out in term 9.2, provided for an annuity to be purchased in the 
format that was set up for Mr M. 
Ive also thought about whether it was fair and reasonable of SW to purchase an annuity in 
the way it did. The representatives have argued that more should have been done by SW to 
contact Mr M. 
Ive considered the contact SW had with Mr M prior to his 75th birthday. The evidence Ive 
seen shows that it wrote to him in April 2018, April 2019 and March 2020 about his retirement options. These letters explained that he needed to make a decision about what 
benefits he wanted to take, before his 75th birthday. So, Im satisfied that the information that 
SW sent Mr M, explained the importance of him telling SW how he wanted to take his 
pension and the consequences of not doing so. 
After the annuity had been set up, SW became aware that the correspondence had been 
sent to an old address for Mr M, when the P60 it had sent him was returned as gone away. 
So, it seems quite likely that the information SW sent to Mr M wasnt received by him. From 
the information Ive seen about SWs contact with Mr M, Im satisfied there isnt a record of 
post being returned to SW, prior to the P60 being returned in May 2020. So, I dont think in 
this particular case, that SW had information which should have alerted it to the fact that Mr 
M hadnt received correspondence from it, or that he had moved address. 
The representatives have also said that SW didnt follow the guidance set out in FCA 
publication Fair treatment of long-standing customers FG16/8 guidance. Ive also 
considered that guidance. The essence of the guidance it seems to me, is that businesses 
should keep customers well informed about the product they are invested in throughout the 
life cycle of the product, and at key policy events. And it references closed book customers 
and the importance of treating those customers fairly.  
As Ive set out above, I think in this particular case SW did keep Mr M informed and provided 
him with the relevant information about his policy as he approached his 75th birthday. And 
the information it sent warned him of the potential consequences of not taking action by his 
75th birthday. SW in this case did purchase an annuity in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
As Ive said above, it doesnt seem likely that Mr M received the correspondence SW sent 
him, as it didnt have his up to date address. I dont think the guidance specifically addresses 
that particular issue and what a business should do where a customer such as Mr M hasnt 
been in contact for some time. But taking into account the information SW had sent to Mr M 
and it having no indication that he might not have received any correspondence from it; I 
dont think it did anything wrong by not conducting a trace for Mr M, or treated him unfairly by 
purchasing the annuity when it did. 
The representatives also dont think that the compensation SW has offered in respect of the 
delays in providing the information requested was sufficient. The offer of payment was made 
to Mrs M, as it appears SW has decided that the remaining annuity payments should be paid 
to her. But the representatives bring the complaint on behalf of the estate of Mr M, not 
themselves. And in those circumstances, I dont think SW needs to pay any more 
compensation to Mrs M than it has already offered to do, in respect of any distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delays.
My final decision
Scottish Widows Limited has already made an offer to pay £125 to Mrs M in respect of the 
poor service it provided. It has also offered to pay interest on the accrued claim amount for 
the period of the delays, at the rate of 8% simple a year. I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Scottish Widows Limited should pay Mrs M compensation as set out 
in the paragraph above, if the representatives accept my decision - and the cheque Scottish 
Widows Limited originally sent Mrs M hasnt been cashed, and can no longer be cashed. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman