DRN-3342271
The complaint
Mrs O complains about the way that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Mini 
Financial Services, has dealt with the partial early repayment that she made towards a hire 
purchase agreement under which a car had been supplied to her. Her husband is also 
involved in her complaint.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2021 in which I described what 
had happened as follows:
A used car was supplied to Mrs O under a hire purchase agreement with Mini 
Financial Services that she signed in December 2019. She asked to make a partial 
early repayment and Mini Financial Services sent her two letters in November 2020 
showing the effect of a payment of £1,200  the first said that there would be a 
rebate of £824.39, she would then need to make one payment of £135.79 and then 
the optional final repayment of £8,260.95; and the second said that there would be 
no rebate, she would then need to make 18 monthly payments of £53.85 and then 
the optional final repayment of £8,260.95. Mrs O made the payment of £1,200 in 
December 2020 and Mini Financial Services sent her a letter in January 2021 which 
said that there would be a rebate of £594.32, she would then need to make four 
monthly payments of £31.46 and then the optional final repayment of £8,260.95.
It wrote to her again in February 2021 and confirmed that it had received the partial 
early repayment of £1,200, there had been a partial early repayment rebate of 
£594.32 and that the remaining repayments were four monthly repayments of £31.46 
and then the optional final repayment of £8,260.95 unless she returned the car at 
the end of the Agreement in accordance with clause 8(3) of the Agreement. She 
said that that wasnt what she was expecting and that it wasnt clear when the 
optional final repayment of £8,260.95 would be due.
Mini Financial Services said that there had been an error and only the second quote 
was valid  it apologised for that and offered Mrs O a goodwill gesture of £150. She 
tried to get further information from Mini Financial Services and it then sent her an e-
mail in June 2021 to say that its February 2021 letter was correct (but it accepted that 
the letter hadnt specified the date when the optional final repayment would be 
debited) and that the term of her agreement had been reduced from 30 to 18 months 
 but that e-mail was sent to Mrs O two days after it had collected the optional final 
repayment of £8,260.95 from her.
Mrs O then complained to this service. Our investigator didnt recommend that her 
complaint should be upheld. He said that it was reasonable to think that the optional 
final repayment would be taken in the month following the fourth monthly repayment 
of £31.46, Mrs O had asked for the term of her agreement to be reduced, and he 
didnt think that Mini Financial Services had acted unfairly. He said that the offer of 
£150 as a goodwill gesture to apologise for the inconvenience caused was fair as it 
was clear that its error had caused some confusion.
Mrs Os husband, on her behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. He has responded to our investigators recommendations in detail and 
says, in summary, that there was no discussion of the contract term being reduced 
and that wasnt indicated in either of the quotes that Mini Financial Services provided 
in November 2020. He says that its unreasonable for there to be an assumption that 
Mrs O had agreed to a reduced contract term and that she would then be expected to 
pay the final balance of £8,260.95 about twelve months earlier than had been 
contracted.
He says that at the very least Mini Financial Services should reinstate the contract for 
the original term of 30 months and that a direct debit should be reinstated to cover 
the balance of monthly payments due, and then the optional final payment, should 
Mrs O wish to keep the car at that time.
My provisional findings were as follows: 
The car that was supplied to Mrs O under the hire purchase agreement that she 
signed in December 2019 had a price of £12,730, she made an advance payment of 
£2,730 and agreed to make 29 monthly payments of £120.01 and there was an 
optional final repayment of £8,260.95. Mrs O asked Mini Financial Services about 
making a partial early repayment of £2,000 but was told that the maximum payment 
that she could make was £1,200. It provided her with two letters in November 2020 
setting out the payments that would then be due.
Mrs O made a partial early repayment of £1,200 in December 2020 but its not clear 
to me which of the two offers that Mini Financial Services had made that she 
intended to accept. Mini Financial Services then sent her a letter in January 2021 
which said that there would be a rebate of £594.32, she would need to make four 
monthly payments of £31.46 and then the optional final repayment of £8,260.95  but 
that letter was sent after Mrs O had made the payment.
Ive not seen any evidence to show that Mrs O had asked to reduce the term of her 
agreement, Im not persuaded that its likely than she would have done so and I dont 
consider that Mini Financial Services January 2021 letter made it clear that the 
optional final repayment would become due in June 2021 (and shed already made 
the partial early repayment when that letter was sent to her). I dont consider it to be 
likely that Mrs O would have agreed that the optional final repayment would become 
due in June 2021  more than a year earlier than it was originally due under the 
agreement.
Mini Financial Services confirmed in February 2021 that it had received the partial 
early repayment of £1,200, there had been a partial early repayment rebate of 
£594.32 and that the remaining repayments were four monthly repayments of £31.46 
and then Mrs O would have to make the optional final repayment of £8,260.95 unless 
she returned the car at the end of the Agreement in accordance with clause 8(3) of 
the Agreement. The agreement doesnt include a clause 8(3).
Mrs O said that that wasnt what she was expecting and that it wasnt clear when the 
optional final repayment of £8,260.95 would be due. Mini Financial Services 
responded to her but I dont consider that it addressed the issue about which shed 
contacted it  which was when the optional final repayment would be due. She tried 
to get further information from Mini Financial Services. It then sent her an e-mail in 
June 2021 to say that its February 2021 letter was correct and that the optional final 
repayment would be debited by a specified date in June 2021 and that the term of Mrs Os agreement had been reduced from 30 to 18 months. That e-mail was sent to 
Mrs O two days after Mini Financial Services had collected the optional final 
repayment of £8,260.95 from her.
I dont consider that Mini Financial Services had adequately explained to Mrs O that 
the effect of her partial early repayment was that the term of her agreement would be 
reduced from 30 months to 18 months and that the optional final repayment would be 
due from her in June 2021. I dont consider it to be likely that that would have been 
acceptable to Mrs O or that she had made the partial early repayment on that basis.
This was a hire purchase agreement so Mrs O had the option at the end of the 
agreement to either return the car or make the optional final repayment and keep it. I 
consider that Mini Financial Services should have written to Mrs O before the end of 
her agreement setting out the options that were available to her  but Ive seen no 
evidence to show that it did so. I also consider that it would be reasonable to expect 
Mini Financial Services to have given Mrs O notice that it was collecting £8,260.95 
from her  but I dont consider that it properly did so.
I consider that there have been multiple failures by Mini Financial Services to 
properly explain the effects of the partial early repayment to Mrs O. It has apologised 
for some of its errors and has offered her £150 as a goodwill gesture  but I consider 
that it needs to do more than that in response to Mrs Os complaint.
I consider that it should refund to Mrs O the £8,260.95 that it collected from her in 
June 2021 and that it should pay interest on that amount. I consider that it should 
then reinstate Mrs Os hire purchase agreement and recalculate the monthly 
payments that are due from her for the remaining part of the original term of the 
agreement, taking account of the partial early repayment and the rebate due to her. 
When the agreement ends, Mrs O will then have the option to either return the car or 
make the optional final repayment and keep the car.
The errors and failings of Mini Financial Services will have caused considerable 
distress and inconvenience for Mrs O. It has offered to pay her £150 as a goodwill 
gesture but I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for it to 
pay her £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes been 
caused.
Mrs Os husband, on her behalf, and Mini Financial Services both provided further 
comments and information in response to my provisional decision. I issued a second 
provisional decision on this complaint in February 2022 in which l set out my revised 
provisional findings as follows:
As Mrs O made an indemnity claim to her bank for the £8,260.95 that had been 
collected from her and her husband has confirmed that she received that money 
back, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Mini Financial Services to also refund that 
money to her. The payment was collected from her in June 2021 and she received it 
back in July 2021 so I dont consider that Mini Financial Services should pay any 
interest on that amount.
Mini Financial Services says that it cant reinstate the agreement because its come 
to its natural end but I consider that Mini Financial Services has ended the 
agreement when it shouldnt have done so  and I consider that it should reinstate 
the agreement, but if its unable to do so, I consider that it should treat the agreement 
as if it had been reinstated and allow Mrs O the same rights and obligations as were 
set out in the agreement.It also says that Mrs O has been using the car since July 2021 but hasnt been 
paying for it. I consider that its fair and reasonable for her to pay for the use that 
shes had from the car. I consider that Mini Financial Services should recalculate the 
monthly payments that are due from Mrs O for the remaining part of the original term 
of the agreement and any period for which she has had the car but hasnt paid for it, 
and also taking account of the partial early repayment and the rebate due to her. It 
should then notify Mrs O of the amount due from her and try to agree a repayment 
arrangement with her for that amount.
The errors and failings of Mini Financial Services will have caused considerable 
distress and inconvenience for Mrs O and I find that it would be fair and reasonable 
for it to pay her £300 to compensate her for that distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further representations by any of Mrs O, her husband and Mini Financial 
Services, my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint. Mrs Os 
husband, on her behalf, has provided further comments in responded to my provisional 
decision and says, in summary, that:
when the quotes for making the early lump sum repayment were received there were 
two options, one offering a rebate of £824.39 and the other for £594.32, and Mrs Os 
acceptance was based on the higher figure so it would be reasonable that Mini 
Financial Services should have to base any future recalculations on the higher rebate 
figure;
Mrs O has honoured all payments due but hasnt had the benefit of the difference 
between the rebate figures of £230.07 so that amount should be added to the 
proposed compensation of £300 compensation; and
the contract should either be reinstated with zero payments due until the end of the 
30 month term or, if Mini Financial Services is unable to reinstate the contract, it 
should commit in writing that there are no further payments due until that point and 
that Mrs O can enjoy all of the options available to her prior to that date, such as 
handing the car back, trading it in, or buying it for the final value figure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change the findings that I set out in my 
second provisional decision. 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Mini Financial 
Services to use the higher rebate figure of £824.39 in the calculation of the monthly 
payments that are due from Mrs O or to refund to her the difference between the two rebate 
figures of £230.07. I consider that its fair and reasonable for Mrs O to pay for the use that 
shes had from the car so Im also not persuaded that the contract should be reinstated with 
zero payments due until the end of the term or that Mini Financial Services should be 
required to give the commitment suggested by Mrs Os husband.
I consider that the outcome that I described in my second provisional decision is fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances. I find that Mini Financial Services should: reinstate the 
agreement (or if its unable to do that, it should treat the agreement as if it had been 
reinstated and allow Mrs O the same rights and obligations as were set out in the 
agreement); and recalculate the monthly payments that are due from Mrs O for the 
remaining part of the original term of the agreement and any period for which she has had 
the car but hasnt paid for it, and also taking account of the partial early repayment and the 
rebate that was properly due to her for the partial early repayment that she made. I also find 
that it should pay her £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes 
been caused.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mini Financial Services 
to take the actions described above and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Os complaint and I order BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited, trading as Mini Financial Services, to:
1. Reinstate the hire purchase agreement or, if its unable to do so, to treat the 
agreement as if it had been reinstated and allow Mrs O the same rights and 
obligations as were set out in the agreement.
2. Recalculate the monthly payments that are due from Mrs O for the remaining part of 
the original term of the agreement and any period for which she has had the car but 
hasnt paid for it, and also taking account of the partial early repayment and the 
rebate due to her - it should then notify Mrs O of the amount due from her and try to 
agree a repayment arrangement with her for that amount.
3. Pay £300 to Mrs O to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes 
been caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman