DRN-3994845
The complaint
Mr M has complained that when he deposited £1,700 cash at the counter in the branch 
Lloyds Bank PLC wrongly credited his bank account with £1,200. 
What happened
Mr M and his wife had recently had a new baby. Friends and family had given him some 
money for the new baby. Mr M said he and his wife had carefully counted it and it amounted 
to £1,700 broken down as follows: 20 £5 notes, 28 £20 notes, 100 £10 notes plus £40.
 
So, on 21 September 2022, Mr M said he went to his local branch of Lloyds and went to the 
counter to deposit the £1,700 cash. He said he was served by the branch manager who 
asked how much cash it was which he confirmed was £1,700. She then asked him to put his 
card in the machine and enter his PIN. Mr M said when that was happening his cash was 
being fed through a counting machine which kept jamming, so the process was continually 
repeated. Mr M said that also delayed the process and there was queue of people building 
up behind him. The manager asked him if he wanted a receipt to which Mr M said yes. The 
receipt was handed to him and Mr M said he then walked out. On checking the receipt as 
soon as he left, he saw it said he had deposited £1,200. So, Mr M said he turned around and 
went back into the branch and had to queue up to speak to the branch manager. 
Mr M said once he raised the issue that the receipt said only £1,200 had been deposited the 
branch manager got very defensive. Mr M said he then told her the number of notes for each 
amount which also clearly added up to £1,700. Mr M said the branch manager refused to 
accept this and started raising her voice, causing the other people queuing to look at him. Mr 
M then said the manager accused him of being a liar and that they get people trying to steal 
from them all the time. When Mr M said he wanted to raise a complaint and that he wished 
for the CCTV to be checked, he said the manager told him she was the manager and she 
wasnt going to do anything about his complaint and she refused to check the CCTV. Mr M 
said the encounter left him hugely embarrassed.
 
Mr M said he then left the branch and phoned the complaints department from his car. In the 
call he also explained he had moved address, so his address needed changing. He said he 
was told to do this through the app also which he did right away. 
Lloyds looked into his complaint and phoned him to say it wasnt upholding it. It said there 
was no discrepancy and it also reiterated it wouldnt look at the CCTV. Unfortunately, the 
final response letter was sent to Mr Ms previous address which sadly caused Mr M more 
trouble and upset. 
Dissatisfied Mr M brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld but did think Lloyds should pay Mr M £100 compensation for sending the final 
response letter to his previous address. 
Mr M didnt agree so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 August 2023 and I said the following:
Mr Ms testimony is straightforward and has been consistent throughout. More so 
given he also counted the number of notes for each denomination and that this was 
money given him and his wife on the birth of their child, which also is not unusual. 
 
Whilst I can see Lloyds handwritten evidence from the manager that the tills 
balanced that day, I have not received system evidence of what Lloyds say Mr M was 
depositing, namely the £1,200 other than by way of the bank statement.  Nor indeed 
have I seen any corroborated system evidence of the opening and closing balance of 
the tills. There is no dispute that the counting machine kept jamming. Lloyds have 
said thats due to the condition of the new polymer notes, but it hasnt shown me that 
nonetheless it was still capable of counting the notes correctly, regardless of the 
jamming or the condition of the bank notes being counted. Sadly, it appears this 
counting machine has no timing device or record to show what it counted and when. 
Lloyds are relying on the testimony of the branch manager who apparently explained 
to Mr M during the lodgement process wasnt counting £1,700 but merely £1,200. 
However, this is not corroborated by Mr Ms own testimony as he said he didnt 
notice it wasnt £1,700 until he walked out of the branch and looked at his receipt. 
And then he came straight back in again to question it. However, Lloyds manager 
said this was 30 minutes later. On balance I am presently preferring Mr Ms evidence 
on this as otherwise why would he come back in when he already knew only £1,200 
was deposited as he would have raised his complaint there and then. 
Mr Ms evidence is that he literally turned around once he saw the receipt said 
£1,200 and not £1,700 and went back to queue up at the counter and then queried 
the deposit. And then asked for the CCTV to be checked. Its possibly doubtful the 
CCTV would have shown all the notes Mr M deposited, however from the start Mr M 
requested this CCTV evidence to be preserved. I find it disappointing that it wasnt so 
preserved in the particular circumstances of this complaint and given the dispute 
solely relies in Mr Ms word as against that of the branch manager who also wrote up 
the handwritten notes I believe of the till receipts.  It certainly might have helped 
swing the balance one way or the other at much earlier stage.
 
Mr Ms evidence is that the branch manager became defensive on his return to the 
counter and that she wouldnt deal with his complaint because she was the branch 
manager. He said she accused him of lying and that people tried to steal from the 
bank all the time. Mr M has been a longstanding customer of his bank since 2000 
and has never made any complaint before. So, I think its unlikely he would have 
raised this one unless his concerns are genuine. Further as we can see from his 
bank statements, he appears to have made cash deposits before and since with no 
issue, also. I also note in the case report that further instruction was given to the 
branch manager to deal with complaints in accordance with Lloyds procedure and 
that it was not appropriate to refuse to deal with Mr M complaint in the manner the 
branch manager did on his return to the counter.
 
Therefore, on balance Im not satisfied it has been clearly shown that Mr M didnt 
deposit £1,700 like he said. I dont consider Lloyds evidence goes far enough to 
show me only £1,200 was counted. And I see no reason to disbelieve Mr Ms account 
that he only realised the discrepancy as he walked out the door looking at the receipt. 
As otherwise he would have had made his complaint at the counter before leaving. 
And not as the branch said sometime later. Obviously since no CCTV was preserved 
at all we will never know the timings of Mr Ms attendance at the counter each time 
with the branch manager. The CCTV could have at least corroborated that detail 
which again would have given credence either to Mr Ms account or indeed that of the branch manager. Consequently, I consider Lloyds should now refund Mr M the 
sum of £500 with interest for the time hes been without these funds. 
Sadly, despite Mr M telling the complaints department his address had changed and 
also changing it on the app, Lloyds nonetheless sent the final response letter to his 
former address, which he said then caused bad feelings with the present occupiers of 
his old address. The investigator said Lloyds should pay Mr M £100 compensation 
for this and I agree. However I also think given Mr Ms account of the manner in 
which he was spoken to and the fact that the complaints team had to advise on the 
branch manager on how to do deal with complaints that the entire encounter also 
caused Mr M unnecessary distress and upset. Therefore, I consider that Lloyd should 
pay a further £150 compensation for this.
Lloyds agreed with my provisional as did Mr M. Mr M again expressing his frustration as 
being treated in the manner he was. He noted that many customers using this branch would 
not have English as their first language and that its just not right to treat customers like he 
was treated.   
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree with the outcome expressed in my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change it. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Lloyds Bank PLC to do the following:
Refund Mr M the sum of £500. Adding interest of 8% simple per year from the date of 
his deposit to the date of the refund. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, 
appropriate documentation should be provided to Mr M for HMRC purposes.
Pay Mr M a total of £250 compensation for the distress and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman