DRN-3063030
The complaint
Mrs G has complained about her car insurer Aviva Insurance Limited. She says it mis-sold 
her cover when she added an additional car and driver to her policy  but the additional 
driver wasnt recorded as being a driver of that car. 
What happened
Mrs G had a multi-car policy with Aviva. She added a new car to the policy and also the 
details of her son who was a learner driver and would be using the car. She says she 
checked everything before completing the application and, as she was satisfied everything 
had been added correctly, she didnt check the policy documents that were generated. 
Several months later Mrs G noted that her son wasnt a named driver on the car hed been 
using to learn to drive (or for any car on their policy). When she complained to Aviva, Aviva 
said Mrs G had completed the application and her son had been logged on the policy, but 
she hadnt assigned him as a driver of any of the cars. Mrs G said she wanted her money 
back and when Aviva refused she complained to us.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded that Aviva had done anything wrong. So he didnt uphold 
the complaint. Mrs G maintained that she had done everything right and said Avivas 
application process was unclear. She said the application process doesnt make it clear that 
you can add a driver without assigning them to a car. Mrs G also said that during the 
application, before shed paid for the change, it hadnt been drawn to her attention that shed 
added a driver but not assigned them to any vehicle. She asked that an ombudsman 
consider her complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs G was very worried when she learnt that her son wasnt covered for 
driving the car which hed been using for several months. I accept that Mrs G clearly 
intended to make sure he was covered to drive and that finding out this hadnt happened 
was frustrating. But Im not persuaded that occurred due to any fault of Avivas.
I know Mrs G has concerns that the application she completed cant actually be seen. She 
thinks its possible that she didnt make a mistake, that an error on Avivas system occurred. 
But Ive seen nothing that makes me think that is likely the case. And Aviva has explained 
that the information which is input generates the policy documents. 
Ive taken note of example processes which both Aviva and Mrs G have run and provided us 
screen shots of. These show that it is possible to add a driver to the policy and that an option 
is given for each driver, against each car to select them as the main or named driver. I also 
note the advice on screen says the driver can be the main or named driver for up to four cars 
on the policy. And that Mrs Gs policy details show that her son wasnt a main or named 
driver for any car. So I think the process does allow for a driver to not be selected as either 
the main or a named driver for a car. And I think its clear that for each car the policyholder 
can select who drives that car and in what capacity  I dont think there needs to be a more 
explicit warning elsewhere in the process that a driver can be added to the cover without 
assigning them to be insured to drive a specific vehicle.
I havent been shown what Mrs G would have seen immediately before paying her money for 
the amendment she undertook. Ideally there would be a summary screen. But Aviva did 
provide policy documents off the back of the application Mrs G had made and paid for. And, 
particularly where motor insurance is concerned, given the legal ramifications for driving 
without insurance, I think a policyholder should check the details they input have been 
recorded correctly. I know Mrs G checked what she had input before paying  but checking 
afterwards would have ensured that she had not been labouring under any 
misunderstanding and/or that no error had otherwise occurred. 
I appreciate that Mrs G firmly believes she completed the application correctly; that the fact 
her son wasnt covered must be down to either a fault on Avivas system or because its 
process wasnt clear. But, with regret for the upset I know this will cause Mrs G, Im not 
persuaded that shes correct in her belief. Its unfortunate her son wasnt covered to drive the 
car, and Im relieved to hear that no accident occurred during the time the family wasnt 
aware he wasnt covered. But Im satisfied that this misunderstanding wasnt of Avivas 
making, so I cant reasonably uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman