DRN-3792774
The complaint
Miss M complains about the way West Bay Insurance Plc trading as Zenith Insurance 
handled a claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss Ms car was damaged when another vehicle reversed into it while it was parked. Having 
initially contacted her broker, Miss M was told she needed to contact Zenith directly to make 
the claim. She did this on 30 March 2022, but Zeniths agent failed to set the claim up.  
On 20 April Miss M emailed Zenith. She said shed had no communication from it, and when 
she phoned its call centre, nobody answered. Miss M complained that she hadnt been 
provided with a courtesy car. She explained that she needed a car for her job, and was 
having to pay extortionate amounts for taxis and public transport. 
Zenith subsequently set up the claim and on 5 May it instructed its repairers. Unfortunately 
the first appointment the repairers had available to assess the car wasnt until 23 May.
Zenith offered Miss M £200 to apologise for the delay in her complaint being set up and the 
long hold times shed experienced on the phone. But it didnt offer her any compensation for 
the loss of use of her car. Miss M wasnt satisfied with Zeniths response and brought her 
complaint to us.
One of our investigators considered Miss Ms complaint and thought it should be upheld. 
She thought Zeniths offer of £200 was reasonable to reflect the delays and service that 
Miss M received. But she thought Zenith should also pay Miss M £10 per day for the period 
during which she didnt have use of a car. And she said that should cover the 54 days from 
the date when Miss M made her claim up to the date when Zeniths repairers assessed the 
car.
Miss M was happy with the investigators view. But Zenith only accepted it up to a point. It 
said it was willing to pay Miss M £10 per day for the loss of use of her car for the period from 
30 March, when Miss M first contacted it about her claim, to 5 May when it instructed the 
repairer. That amounted to 37 days, and £370 compensation. But Zenith didnt agree that it 
should be held responsible for Miss Ms loss of use of her car for the period from when it 
instructed the repairer to the date of their first available appointment. It pointed out that that 
was beyond its control. 
As Zenith didnt agree with the investigators view, the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and for similar 
reasons.
Miss Ms policy provided that You will be provided with use of a standard courtesy car while 
Your Insured Car is undergoing repair, subject to the repair being carried out by Your 
Insurers approved repairer. And it provided that in most cases the courtesy car would be 
provided during the period of the repairs.
It isnt in dispute that Zenith made a mistake in not setting up Miss Ms claim when she 
contacted it on 30 March. When it eventually instructed its repairers on 5 May, the earliest 
they could assess the car was 23 May  a further 19 days wait.
I take Zeniths point that the delay between it instructing the repairer and the first available 
appointment was outside its control. But I dont agree that it follows that it would be unfair to 
require it to compensate Miss M for this further delay.
Of course its not possible to be sure what sort of wait there might have been for an 
appointment if Zenith had set up the claim and instructed the repairers promptly, as it should 
have done. I acknowledge that its possible that the wait might have been just the same, or 
perhaps even longer. But I dont think it would be fair to Miss M to assume that. The wait 
might just as well have been shorter  and possibly significantly so. The repairer might have 
been able to assess her car very quickly. And Miss M would have been entitled to a courtesy 
car while her car was being repaired.
The delay in setting up the claim was Zeniths responsibility. Given that its simply not 
possible to know how quickly the repairers would have been able to fit the car in if Zenith 
had contacted them promptly, I consider that the fairest solution is to require Zenith to 
compensate Miss M for the loss of use of her car for the whole of the period from 30 March 
to 23 May  a period of 54 days. And I agree with the investigator that the rate should be £10 
per day  a amount we generally consider fair in this type of case.
Im satisfied that the £200 which Zenith offered Miss M is fair and reasonable to reflect the 
distress and inconvenienced she experienced as a result of Zeniths poor service.
Putting things right
To put things right Zenith should:
Pay Miss M £540, being 54 days compensation for loss of use of her car, at a rate of 
£10 per day; and
Pay Miss M the £200 it offered her to apologise for the poor service she received, if it 
hasnt already done so.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require West Bay Insurance Plc trading as 
Zenith Insurance to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman