DRN-4339654
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) 
made unfair deductions when settling a claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M was walking her dog when one of his paws became injured. She took him to the vet 
and he underwent surgery. He was given pain relief medication and antibiotics. His wound 
was dressed and bandaged. He required a buster collar to stop him from removing the 
bandage. There were further visits to the vet for cleaning and redressing of the wound for 
which the dog needed to be sedated. 
The total cost of the first claim was £2,412.74. Miss M said the only way she could pay for 
the treatment was by using her partners credit card. She made a claim to C&G. After 
making various deductions it paid her £1,763.94.
The deductions were as follows:
Buster Collar £13.20
Grooming £19.13
Admission/discharge Fees £137.40
Fluid therapy   £49.50
Bandage applications £220.17
Medications with over 100% mark up £91.05
Theatre Consumables and post-operative care pack £14.31
Waste Disposal £14.04
Excess £90.00
Miss M agreed that the cost of the buster collar, grooming and policy excess should be 
deducted. She didnt agree with the other deductions.
With regard to the second claim for ongoing care, the total amount of the claim was £428.37. 
C&G paid £114.79 saying it had deducted various things claimed twice. Miss M agreed that 
the vet had inadvertently claimed £188.78 for something that was part of the first claim. But 
she thought she was entitled to a further £124.80 in respect of this claim. 
Miss M brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator upheld it. She didnt think C&G 
hadnt acted fairly in deducting fees relating to the admission fees, fluid therapy, bandage 
applications, medications over a 100% mark-up, theatre consumables and waste disposal. 
She didnt think the deduction of £124.80 from the second claim was reasonable. She also 
thought C&G should pay 8% interest on the amount due to Miss M and £200 compensation 
for the trouble and upset it had caused her. 
C&G agreed with the Investigators view regarding the admission fees, fluid therapy and 
bandage application fees but not the remaining ones. It also agreed that it should have 
deducted £188.78 from the settlement of the second claim for the duplicate invoice rather 
than £313.58.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the decision in part. 
An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
As the parties are in agreement regarding most of the deductions, Ill only look at those 
which are still in dispute.  
Medication with over 100% mark-up
The policy says in Section 11 General Exclusions:
Vet Fees will only be paid if they are: - Reasonable and Essential for Your pets health and 
well-being. We may limit any payment to a maximum mark-up of 100% for veterinary 
treatment, medication and dispensing fees.
So under the terms of the policy, I think C&G was entitled to cap the amount it would pay for 
medication and remove any surplus as a deduction.
C&G deducted a total of £91.05 for medicines in this category. It said this broke down into 
£73.36 for Synulox (an antibiotic), £13.06 Isaderm (an antibacterial cream) and £4.63 
Hibiscrub (a skin cleanser to manage infection). After our Investigator issued her view, C&G 
provided evidence to show the show the standard price for the Synulox and Isaderm and 
that it had capped the amount paid to 100% of this amount. So I dont think C&G acted 
unfairly in making these deductions.
It said the £4.63 for the Hibiscrub was deducted in full as it fell under the grooming exclusion 
on the policy. I understand that this is an antibacterial wash for infected areas. As the wound 
needed to be redressed and bandaged on several occasions, I think it was appropriate for 
the vet to use something like this and it wasnt reasonable for C&G to class it as grooming.
Theatre Consumables and post-operative care pack
The policy says:
What is not insured?
Any miscellaneous costs that do not directly relate to the Treatment of an Illness or 
Accidental Injury, including but not limited to single use items, non-medical items, cleaning 
supplies and such other costs that a Vet may charge but are not directly related to the actual 
Treatment of Your pet.
C&G said it wouldnt cover single use items such as the needle, thread, gauze swabs and a 
scalpel blade. I dont think it was reasonable for C&G to say that these were not directly 
related to the actual Treatment of Your pet as they would have been an essential part of the 
surgical procedure. So I think C&G should reimburse the cost of these items.
Waste Disposal
I consider it was reasonable for C&G to exclude this as being not directly related to the 
actual Treatment of Your pet.
Given these conclusions, I am minded to say that C&G should reimburse a total of £550.81 
broken down as follows:
Admission/discharge Fees £137.40
Fluid therapy   £49.50Bandage applications £220.17
Hibiscrub £4.63
Theatre Consumables and post-operative care pack £14.31
Duplicate deduction from 2nd claim £124.80
As Miss M has paid the vets fees, I also think interest should be added to the amount 
reimbursed at a rate of 8% simple on the amount reimbursed from the date Miss M paid the 
vets bills to the date of settlement. 
Our Investigator considered that compensation of £200 would be appropriate in this case for 
the trouble and upset Miss M suffered as a result of having a large part of the claim unfairly 
declined after she had paid all the vets bills on her partners credit card which would have 
caused her unnecessary stress. I think that amount would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.

Both parties accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to change them and they 
now form part of this provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to pay a further £550.81 to Miss M and to pay interest on 
that amount at the simple rate of 8% from the date she paid the vets bills until the date of 
payment. I also require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to pay Miss M 
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman