DRN-4334839
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn (Moneybarn)
didnt allow him to keep a car he acquired under a conditional sale agreement, after he 
entered into a debt repayment plan. 
What happened
In October 2021, Mr M entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to acquire 
a used car first registered in January 2015. The cash price of the car was around £5,250. 
The total amount payable was approximately £9,721. There were 60 monthly payments, 
each around £165. 
Mr M said that he entered into a debt repayment plan in September 2022. He said that this 
was a debt management plan to bring his finances in order and that it wasnt an insolvency 
or a bankruptcy arrangement. Mr M said that because of this Moneybarn have issued a 
default notice under the terms of the finance agreement. But, he said, that he kept up to date 
with his payments for the last year and that there wouldve been no problems with him 
making his payments towards this finance agreement. Mr M is also unhappy as he said that 
he wasnt given a chance to surrender the car before Moneybarn appointed repossession 
agents, which caused him to incur further charges. As he was unhappy about Moneybarns 
actions, he raised a complaint with them and eventually referred his complaint to this 
service.
In October 2022 Moneybarn responded to Mr Ms complaint. In summary, in this 
correspondence they said that they initially wrote to Mr M on 13 September 2022 after being 
notified that he had entered a Debt Payment Programme (DPP) with a debt charity. So, they 
said, that the letter they issued to him was a notice of default confirming that by entering into 
a debt arrangement Mr M had breached the terms of the finance agreement he had with 
them. They also explained that the act of applying for and obtaining a Debt Arrangement 
Scheme (DAS) is itself a breach of contract and a ground for them to be able to issue a 
default notice. So, they said, that under the terms and conditions of the agreement they can 
end the finance agreement when a customer makes a live arrangement with their creditors.
Mr M was unhappy with Moneybarns response, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought that Moneybarn acted fairly in terminating the agreement because 
when Mr M entered into a debt payment plan, he needed help with his finances. The 
investigator was of the opinion that the credit agreement was no longer affordable for Mr M 
at that time. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigator. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
After reviewing the case, I issued a provisional decision on 22 August 2023. In the 
provisional decision I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where the evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of 
probabilities  which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the 
evidence available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mr M acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. 
In summary, Mr Ms main reason for his complaint is that Moneybarn didnt allow him to keep 
a car after he entered into a debt repayment plan with some of his creditors. 
Moneybarn have said that under the terms and conditions of the finance agreement they can 
end the agreement because Mr M made a live arrangement with his creditors, thus 
breaching a term of the contract. So, Ive examined what the finance agreement stipulates 
regarding this aspect.
I can see that the agreement says that Moneybarn will be entitled to end the agreement if:
8.1. If a bankruptcy petition is presented against you; if you petition for your own 
bankruptcy; or make a live arrangement with your creditors or call a meeting of them.
8.1.7 If in Scotland, you become insolvent or suffer sequestration or a receiver, judicial 
factor or trustee to be appointed over any of your estate or effects or suffer an 
arrestment, charge, attachment or other diligence to be issued or levied on any of 
your estate or effects or suffer any exercise or threatened exercise of a landlords 
hypothec..
I know that Mr M doesnt think this was fair because he said that he didnt enter into an 
insolvency or a bankruptcy arrangement. But, I think most likely, Mr M entering into an 
agreement with his creditors by applying for a DPP, in line with the Debt Arrangement 
Scheme (Scotland) Regulations 2011, would satisfy the above definitions. So, I think most 
likely Moneybarn was within their contractual right to end the agreement. Mr M also said that 
he was making all his payments towards the car finance agreement, and he doesnt think 
this wouldve changed in the near future. So Ive considered if it was reasonable for 
Moneybarn to still exercise their contractual right to end the agreement in question 
considering this and the fact that he was not behind on his monthly payments. 
I know that Moneybarn felt that Mr M being in the DAS legally prohibited them from enforcing 
monetary judgments. And, I could see how Moneybarn may have been worried about what 
might happen to Mr Ms financial situation in the future as he needed to enter into a payment arrangement in question, with most of his creditors. So overall, I dont think it wouldve been 
unreasonable for them to exercise their contractual right to end the agreement especially as 
Mr M did breach a term of the contract by entering into the DAS.
Mr M has said that the communication he had with Moneybarn wasnt compassionate to his 
situation as they have refused to follow reasoning  he said specifically they wouldnt 
entertain any communication from him or any discussion. He also told our service that 
Moneybarn did not allow him to hand the car over himself and that he wasnt provided 
enough time to make alternative arrangements. Mr M told our service that he received the 
Termination Notice letter dated 12 October 2022 on Friday (14 October 2022). He said this 
letter outlined options open to him but as the Moneybarn customer service doesnt take calls 
on weekends he had to wait until following Monday to make contact with them. However on 
that Monday, he said, he already received an email from Moneybarn saying they already 
appointed a repossession agent. 
Ive considered all of the above, but I believe that Mr M did have enough time. I can see that 
on several occasions Moneybarn explained what his options were. Some of this was during 
the calls they had with him in September 2022, and in letters they sent to him. I can see that 
Moneybarns sent Mr M default notices on 13 and 21 September 2022. Also on 29 
September 2022, Moneybarn emailed Mr M and explained that the Default Notice expires on 
11/10/2022 so they will look to terminate the agreement and then seek to recover the car. 
Here they once again explained that his options were to either settle the agreement in full by 
paying £5,072.32 by 11/10/2022 or by voluntarily surrendering the car. And they explained 
that failure to choose either option will result in them appointing collection agents once the 
agreement is terminated, which may involve agent fees and recovery fees. This same 
message was explained in the default notices sent to him, and the default notice from 21 
September 2022 indicated that his agreement would be terminated on or after 11 October 
2022 if Mr M chooses not to pay it off. So overall, I think he was aware of his options and 
Moneybarn provided him enough notice before they repossessed the car. 
Overall, I sympathise with Mr M for the difficulties that he is experiencing but taking all the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont think Moneybarn needs to take any 
further action in relation to this complaint.  
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above I intend to not uphold this complaint.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional comments or information they would 
like me to consider by 5 September 2023.
Moneybarn responded and said they have nothing further to add. 
Mr M didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and considering neither Mr M nor Moneybarn had any further comments to 
make I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to what I reached in my provisional 
decision (copied above).My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman