DRN-2595878
The complaint
Ms S says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Ms S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2005, as part of a wider insurance package 
called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (or TMPP for short). Ms S paid for the PPI with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her in case she was off 
work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ss case. 
I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Because of all the time thats passed, theres only limited information remaining from Ms Ss 
sale. But from what Ive seen of Halifaxs sales process from the time, the policy would have 
been presented as optional. Here, I can see Ms S was recommended the policy  and this 
was only a recommendation, not a requirement. The policys cost was set out separately to 
the cost of the lending itself  the PPI was not part and parcel of the mortgage. And she was 
reminded she could always cancel the policy if she changed her mind  she didnt have to 
take it out or keep it. Ive not seen any wider problems with Halifaxs sales process from the 
time, nor anything which shows that Ms S was misled or unfairly pressured into buying PPI 
here. So overall, I think its most likely that Halifax made Ms S aware she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Ms S, so it had to check it was right for her. And based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Ms S 
was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. 
The PPI wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits and offered her more comprehensive 
cover, such as for when her benefits reduced to just a fraction of her normal pay. It also 
meant she could effectively protect her savings and use them for other things, instead of 
potentially having to sacrifice one asset to save another. I understand Ms Ss family were 
happy to help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And 
this mortgage was Ms Ss sole responsibility, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable if 
Halifax had recommended she rely on other individuals to pay it. Ultimately, if Ms S had 
fallen behind on her mortgage she couldve lost her home. So the PPI couldve been useful 
for her in protecting her home and providing some peace of mind.
The cost and benefit of the policy were set out clearly. So I think Ms S wouldve understood 
how much she would need to pay for it and what it could pay out in each claim.
It is possible that Halifax didnt point out all the main things the policy wouldnt cover. But as 
I said above, Ms S doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things.
 My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman