DRN-1325109
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that MBNA Limited has unfairly recorded late payment markers on his credit 
file.
What happened
Mr P says he found out in April 2019 that his direct debit payment for March 2019 to 
MBNA had not been made. He says he spoke to MBNA about this and was told the payment 
would be taken in the next direct debit and there wouldn't be a late payment fee and was led 
to belive there would be no impact on his credit file.
Mr P says he asked MBNA to change the payment date in August 2019 which it agreed to 
do. But he found out a late payment marker had been applied to his credit file in addition to 
one from March 2019. He says MBNA agreed to remove the markers but later said it would 
not as they were correctly applied. Mr P also says there may have been a late payment 
marker unfairly added in September 2019 and the markers have affected his credit score 
and his ability to re-mortgage at what is a difficult time for him and his family.
MBNA says the first payment was due on 22 March 2019 and Mr P contacted it on 2 April 
2019 so it says it doesn't matter what Mr P was led to believe as the payment was late at 
that stage. It accepts it could have been clearer in explaining that but says it didn't make a 
mistake by recording the late payment on Mr P's credit file. MBNA says the August payment 
was due on 19 August 2019 but was paid late on 28 August 2019 and so again doesn't 
accept making a mistake by recording the late payment marker. It says a marker hadn't been 
recorded for September 2019.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought overall that MBNA ought to 
have been clearer it what it told him and ought to have explained that late payment markers 
would be recorded. The investigator didn't think MBNA made a mistake by recording the 
markers as the March and August payments were late and didn't think a similar marker had 
been recorded in September 2019. The investigator recommended MBNA pay Mr P £100 for 
the poor service and for telling him it would remove the markers before telling him it couldn't.
MBNA accepts that recommendation for compensation.
Mr P doesn't accept that view and says he was guided by MBNA and spent several months 
asking it if it had removed the late payment markers when that was never going to happen. 
He would like MBNA to show compassion and take into account his financial and personal 
difficulties and remove the markers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr P will be disappointed by my decision.I'm satisfied that regardless of what Mr P was told or led to believe by MBNA the payments 
in August and March were late. And that Mr P spoke to MBNA about them after the payment 
dates had passed. So in those circumstances I don't think MBNA made a mistake by 
recording the late payment markers on Mr P's credit file. I'm also satisfied that MBNA has a 
duty to accurately report the account position to the Credit Reference Agencies which I think 
it did here.
I appreciate that Mr P wasn't given accurate information by MBNA and I also accept that he 
spent some time asking MBNA to remove the late payment markers which he was told would 
happen. So I understand Mr P's frustration in those circumstances and his disappointment to 
find out that MBNA  was not prepared to remove them. I agree with the investigator that 
MBNA ought to have told Mr P that there would be an impact on his credit file and also agree 
that MBNA should pay compensation for what took place. I think £100 compensation is fair 
and reasonable and I don't think Mr P suffered any financial loss as a result of what took 
place as I think the late payment markers were correctly recorded on Mr P's credit file.
Overall I can't fairly order MBNA to remove the markers when I think they were correctly 
recorded. But I hope MBNA will reconsider what has taken place here and consider the 
difficult position Mr P finds himself in. And decide, in the light of what Mr P was told, if it is 
able to remove the late payment markers in what it may consider to be unusual 
circumstances.
I have not seen any evidence that a late payment marker was recorded for a late payment in 
September 2019 and so I can't fairly conclude that a mistake was made by MBNA. 
Putting things right
For the reasons I have explained I find MBNA should pay compensation for what took place. 
But in doing so, I accept that is not the outcome Mr P wanted or asked for.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order MBNA Limited to pay Mr P 
£100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman