DRN-4148499
The complaint
Miss Z complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have failed to refund the money she lost 
as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
In summary though, Miss Z was contacted by someone on a well-known photograph based 
social media platform who I will call B. After a few weeks of chatting, B introduced Miss Z to 
a Crypto investment platform. Miss Z made the following transactions to two Crypto 
exchanges which were then forwarded on to the scammer.
Transaction Date Merchant Amount Method
1 28/07/2022 Coinbase £821.51 Debit Card
2 29/07/2022 Foris Dax MT 
Limited£100 Faster Payment
3 29/07/2022 Foris Dax MT 
Limited£14,000 Faster Payment
4 05/08/2022 Foris Dax £15,000 Faster Payment
5 08/08/2022 Foris Dax -£400 credit Credit
6 09/08/2022 Foris Dax £14,000 Faster Payment
After some back and forth Miss Z realised she had been scammed.
Miss Z asked Lloyds to refund these payments as she believes Lloyds should have done 
more to prevent her from being scammed. Lloyds did not agree with this.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and she thought that Lloyds had provided 
sufficient warnings about the payments and therefore Lloyds did not have to offer a refund. 
Miss Z did not agree with this and therefore her complaint has been passed to me to issue a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons. 
It isnt in dispute that Miss Z authorised the disputed payments she made from her Lloyds 
account. The payments were requested by her using her legitimate security credentials 
provided by Lloyds, and the starting position is that Lloyds ought to follow the instructions 
given by its customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Lloyds should have done more to prevent Miss Z from 
falling victim to the scam. I say this as there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transaction. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
Miss Z has argued that the first two payments were unusual and should have been flagged 
by Lloyds but I dont agree. There is a balance to be struck. Banks and building societies 
have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. 
But they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction, nor can it reasonably be 
expected to review every payment being made to a new payee. I dont think it reasonable to 
challenge every payment made to crypto exchanges. I only think intervention was merited 
once a pattern emerged and the transactions became larger. This point I think was 
transaction 3.
Its common ground that the payments 3, 4 and 6 that Miss Z made were unusual given that 
they did trigger Lloydss fraud prevention systems and were automatically blocked pending 
further enquiry. Accordingly, its just a question of whether Lloyds went far enough in all the 
circumstances with the interventions it carried out.
After the payment were flagged as unusual, Lloyds says it asked Miss Z to confirm the 
payment was genuine. I have listened to the calls that were made. Amongst other things, 
Miss Z was asked if she was using a third party broker or following anyone elses advice. 
Miss Z confirmed that she was not. She confirmed that she was acting on her own and had 
decided to purchase crypto currency. This is despite the fact that Miss Z had clearly been 
given advice by B and was being told exactly what to do trading wise. Additionally, Miss Z 
was asked if anybody had told her to lie to Lloyds about the transactions, Miss Z confirmed 
that she had not been, but I can see that she was told by B what to say to certain questions 
that Lloyds may ask. 
I note Miss Zs comments that she was nervous during the calls in question, but I dont think 
that her tone sounded this way in the calls. So I dont think it was sufficient for Lloyds to have 
picked up on this.
Overall, having listened to all the calls, I am satisfied that Miss Z was asked proportionately 
probing questions and I dont think Lloyds needed to ask anything further given the answers 
Miss Z gave. I also should add that given the way she answered the questions and the 
interactions she was having with B at the time, I dont think that any further intervention 
would likely have altered Miss Zs decision to carry out the transactions. She seemed 
completely convinced at the time that what she was doing was genuine. 
Also due to the coaching that Miss Z was given by B, she was giving persuasive answers to 
questions asked. So, I dont think any further intervention from Lloyds would have put off 
Miss Z from making the payments.  Because of this, I dont think it would be appropriate to 
tell Lloyds to reimburse Miss Z for the unfortunate loss that she suffered.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds could have done more to recover the funds after Miss 
Z reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered. However, in 
these circumstances, Miss Z transferred money to a crypto exchange before it appears that 
the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. As a result, no funds would 
have remained for Lloyds to recover, so I dont think there was anything further Lloyds could 
have done to recover the funds by that point in time.
Lloyds are also under no obligation to refund the money to Miss Z under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either. This is because the Code does not apply to 
transfers which the payer has effectively made to themselves. Miss Z has raised some additional points including ways she feels that Lloyds should 
improve its fraud procedures. She has also explained that having to wait on hold to make a 
call means that by the time she was able to speak to Lloyds, she just wanted the payment to 
be made. I have considered all of the points that she has raised. But ultimately, I am 
satisfied that Lloyds did enough to intervene during the transactions and that any further 
intervention would most likely not have been successful, due to how persuasive the 
scammer was. Also, there was no further recourse for Lloyds to recover the funds by other 
means after the scam. So, Im not persuaded that Lloyds can fairly or reasonably be held 
liable for her loss in these circumstances.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss Z, and Im sorry to hear that she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. But I cant uphold this complaint for the reasons set out 
above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman