DRN-3074688
The complaint
Mr H complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. declined his claim made on his cosmetic repair motor insurance policy. He wants it to 
authorise and undertake the repairs to his car. 
What happened
Mr H scratched his car twice whilst making a manoeuvre and he made a claim on his 
cosmetic repairs policy. Mapfre looked at images of the damage and declined the claim. It 
said the size of the damaged area exceeded the policy limits and the scratches were down 
to the bare metal. Mr H thought the damage should be viewed in person. He thought the 
damage should be treated as two separate incidents and therefore it wouldnt exceed the 
policy parameters. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
policy stated that a personal inspection would be provided after the repairs had been 
authorised. He thought Mapfre had reasonably treated the claim as one incident. And, as the 
size of the damaged area exceeded the policy limits, he thought it had reasonably declined 
the claim. 
Mr H replied that a dealers agent who sold the insurance had thought the claim should be 
covered. He thought the policy didnt state that the incidents couldnt be on the same day. 
He said he hadnt been provided with the policy terms and conditions. Mr H asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H unfortunately scratched his car twice whilst trying to drive through a tight space. The 
scratches occurred five minutes apart. So he thought there had been two incidents and 
therefore two claims. From the measurements Mr H provided, the scratches were 303mm 
apart and the dimensions of the two areas, if treated separately, would meet the parameters 
set by the policy terms and conditions. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Mapfre relied on two exclusions to decline the claim. Firstly, Mapfre declined 
the claim as it thought there had been one incident and the total size of the damaged area 
exceeded the policy limits. 
I can understand that Mr H doesnt agree that there was just one incident, as he initially 
reported to Mapfre. But I think that as the damage occurred in the same manoeuvre, it was 
reasonable for Mapfre to decide this. I wouldnt expect a policy to define all possible 
circumstances. The definitions of minor cosmetic damage state the limits of cover clearly. 
And I think from Mr Hs own measurements, the total area of damage exceeds this. 
Mapfre also declined the claim as its approved repairer said that it wouldnt be able to carry 
out an effective repair under the policy terms and conditions. It decided this after reviewing 
the claim and a photograph of the damage. I think this policy exclusion is set out in item 16 
on page five of the policy booklet under What is not covered. Mapfre said the likely reason 
for this decision was that the size of the repair was too large and required more than 
cosmetic repair. 
Mr H was unhappy that the car hadnt been personally examined by the approved repairer. 
But I cant see that this is required by the policy before repairs are authorised. I think the 
policy clearly states that Mapfre will make its decision to accept a claim based on the 
information provided by the consumer. 
Mr H was unhappy that the opinion of the sales assistant that the damage should be covered 
as two incidents wasnt accepted. But I cant see that the policy requires Mapfre to rely on 
his views. I think it was reasonable for Mapfre to rely on the expert view of its approved 
repairer. 
Mr H said he hadnt been provided with a copy of the policy terms and conditions. I can see 
that the policy certificate refers Mr H to the policy terms and conditions for a full list of the 
policy conditions, exclusions and definitions. And the business that sold Mr H the policy said 
it had provided Mr H with a copy of this by email. So I think this is a matter for Mr H to take 
up with that business. And I cant reasonably hold Mapfre responsible for this. 
So I think Mapfre reasonably considered Mr Hs claim and decided to decline it due to the 
two policy exclusions mentioned above: the size of the damage caused by one incident 
exceeded the policy limits; and the opinion of its approved repairer was that it couldnt 
effectively make a repair under the policy terms and conditions. So I dont require Mapfre to 
do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman