DRN-3026513
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Citibank UK Limited started charging a £75 per month fee for his 
CitiGold bank account, when the account was fee-free before. 
What happened
Mr D has explained that he opened a CitiGold bank account in 2007. At this point, his 
account didnt have any fees attached to it. However, in 2020, Mr D noticed he had started to 
be charged a fee for the account.
Looking into this further, Mr D saw that he had been charged this fee for the previous four 
months  this being a total of £300. So, he contacted Citibank to raise the issue.
Citibank said it had informed Mr D two months in advance, via email, that there was to be a 
change with his account. This change meant he would be charged a fee of £75 per month, in 
line with Citibanks Rates & Charges information. This was unless;
Mr D topped-up his account, so it held a minimum of £150,000 (or currency 
equivalent) on average each month, or;
Mr D moved from a Gold account to a Citiplus bank account.
Citibank said as well as the email it had sent Mr D with advance notice of the changes, it had 
sent him a reminder email about the situation too. And because no action was taken to either 
top up the account, or move to the Citiplus account, Mr D was charged a fee for remaining a 
Gold account customer. 
It did say however, that it would be happy to refund Mr D for half of the account fees he had 
paid to far  as a gesture of goodwill  which equated to £150. 
Mr D remained unhappy with this, and said he still felt he should receive a full 
reimbursement of the fees he paid. Mr D has said he didnt read the above email, and he 
didnt consider email communication to be a sufficient way of making him aware of such a 
change. Mr H highlighted that he didnt often use his account, and given that, and the fact he 
could get a fee-free account doing the same thing elsewhere, he was charged excessively.
Mr D told Citibank he would like to close the account, which has since happened. And as 
Mr D remained unhappy with the above, he referred his complaint this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that Citibank had made the changes to the account clear, by sending an email to 
Mr D letting him know he would be charged £75 for the account, unless he topped up the 
account, or moved to a different bank account. And, she said Citibank had been fair to send 
a reminder to Mr D about this too. Because she thought Citibank hadnt acted unfairly here, 
she felt the £150 fee reimbursement provided to Mr D was more than reasonable.
Mr D didnt agree. He responded and noted that a fee shouldnt have been charged on the 
account without his express agreement. And he remained of the view that the figure of £75 
was excessive. 
Our investigator responded and said Mr D had agreed to the general terms of the account, 
which included information saying Citibank could introduce new fees and charges to the 
account. She said that Citibank had told Mr D what the fee was for, and so she wouldnt 
have expected it to do anything more. 
Mr D still felt the fee was excessive and said the relationship manager didnt reach out to him 
at all during the time he paid the fee. So, he had paid a fee for nothing.
Because Mr D didnt agree with our investigators opinion, his complaint has been referred to 
be to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained my reasoning for 
this below. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account. On doing so, I can see these 
explain Citibank may charge fees for maintaining the account. And that it will notify its 
customers of any changes to fees and charges. 
So, Im aware Citibank is able to introduce a fee to Mr D, should it wish to do so. I dont find 
this principle unreasonable given this is clear in the terms and conditions. However, these 
changes will need to be made clear to a customer, so they can make an informed choice on 
whether they want to continue with the account and pay the fee  or take another course of 
action. 
With this in mind, Ive considered whether in Mr Ds case, Citibank made the upcoming 
relationship fee clear. And having considered the information provided to me, I think it did.
Citibank emailed Mr D to let him know of the upcoming change, and his options. And it has 
provided me with a screenshot of its back-office screens, which show when this 
correspondence was sent.
Looking at the screenshot, Im aware the email was sent to Mr D in May 2020. It was entitled 
important information about your Citigold relationship. I dont have any reason to doubt this 
email was sent, given the screenshot shows the date this email was dispatched. The 
screenshot also shows the email didnt bounce back. So, Im satisfied its most likely the 
email was successfully sent and was received.
Citibank has explained this email was sent automatically to its account holders, through a 
third party, and so it doesnt have the original email. Just the template and evidence of this 
being sent. It isnt unusual for banks to send customer-wide updates this way. And so, Im 
satisfied that providing a template of information the email would have contained is, in this 
instance, a reasonable way for Citibank to show me what the email said.
The template of the email sent to Mr D shows the following was explained to him;
That the rates and charges information for Mr Ds account said a monthly relationship fee of £75 would be charged, when the average monthly balance of the account fell 
below £150,000 (or currency equivalent). 
Citibank had decided to start charging this fee,
Mr D had two months notice of the fee being charged, to decide whether to top up 
his account, move to a different account, or start paying the fee.
Im satisfied this shows clear communication was sent to Mr D about upcoming changes, 
and that it explained to Mr D what he needed to do if he didnt want to be charged.
I can also see from the above-mentioned screenshot that a reminder email was also sent to 
Mr D in June 2020 about the upcoming changes. So, I do think Citibank made Mr D 
reasonably aware that he would soon be charged for the account. And from looking at 
Mr Ds bank statements, and the information he provided, Im aware he wasnt charged until 
after this notice period concluded. So, I think Citibank acted fairly in giving Mr D time to 
decide what he wanted to do, and then charging Mr Ds account when no action was taken 
to top-up his account or move to another account. 
Mr D has said he didnt read at least the first email. And he feels email wasnt a sufficient 
way to inform him of the upcoming changes. But I think sending communication to Mr D via 
email is fair  Citibank clearly had Mr Ds email address, and it was reasonable to use it. I 
would have expected documents to be sent in a different format if Citibank received bounce-
back emails suggesting the communications hadnt gone through. But it didnt. So, I dont 
think Citibank needed to do anything more. And I dont hold Citibank accountable for Mr Ds 
decision not to read the emails from his bank. 
Mr D has said that Citibank should not have charged the fee without his express permission. 
But I dont agree. The terms and conditions agreed to give Citibank the right to charge a fee. 
And it has notified him of this, providing two months for him to make a decision as to what to 
do with the account. So, I dont think Citibank did anything wrong here. 
I do appreciate Mr D feels the fee is excessive. But it isnt the role of this service to tell a 
business what it can and cant charge for an account. That is the banks decision. 
Im aware Citibank has already refunded Mr D £150 of the charges he paid. It explained it 
did this as a gesture of goodwill. It was Citibanks decision to do this, and I think this was 
more than reasonable. So, Im satisfied this was a fair offer for it to make. As such, I dont 
require it to do anything more. 
My final decision
As above, Im satisfied the £150 Citibank UK Limited it fair. And Im aware this has already 
been paid to Mr D. So, my final decision is that I dont require Citibank UK Limited to do 
anything more
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman