DRN-3042712
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the response of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance), following a claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
What happened
Mr N was approached by a company that supplied and installed solar panel systems. Ill 
refer to this company as P. Following a meeting, Mr N agreed to enter into a contract with 
P for it to supply and install a solar panel system costing £8,505.00. To fund this purchase, 
Mr N also agreed to enter into a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF). 
 
Mr N made a claim under Section 75 (s75) of the CCA through his representative. The 
representative said that P had made several verbal misrepresentations to Mr N about the 
solar panel system that had induced him to enter into the contract. It also said there had 
been several breaches of contract. In summary, the points the representative made were: 
 
P had told Mr N that the system would pay for itself within the term of the loan and 
would cost him nothing. But it would take over 11 years for the cost of the solar panel 
system and the loan amount to be paid off. 
 
The system would require no maintenance over its 25-year lifetime whereas it was 
likely that the inverter would need to be replaced at least once during the lifetime of the 
system at a cost of around £1,000.  
 
The solar panels breached several MCS requirements. These included the panels 
being installed too close to the roofs edge, no fire warning notice and the original order 
form showed an estimated figure of 5,600kwh which was overinflated. 
 
To support its position on the quality of the installation, the representative also supplied an 
independent report that highlighted the above issues. 
 
To put things right, the representative asked BPF to: 
 
Repay all sums under the credit agreement, write-off the outstanding balance and 
reimburse any interest or charges applied to the account. 
 
Cover the cost of removing the solar panel system and putting right any damage 
caused because of the installation or removal. 
 
Reimburse the costs of the independent report obtained by Mr N. 
 
Add 8% interest to all sums 
 
In its final response letter, BPF said they couldnt comment on the verbal representations 
made by P but because his solar panel system hadnt performed in line with Ps estimations 
they would reduce Mr Ns loan balance by £4,553.50 and give him £500.00 as a goodwill 
gesture. 
 
BPF thought that it would be reasonable for Mr N to be aware that the solar panel system 
would require some level of maintenance or repair over its 25-year lifetime. It also didnt 
think that the installation of Mr Ns solar panel system had breached the MCS requirements 
by being installed less than 450mm from the roofs edge. They did agree that the fire 
warning labels should be applied to Mr Ns system and agreed to send him a cheque for 
£8.00 to cover the cost of printing out these documents himself.  
 
Unhappy with this, Mr N referred his complaint to our service. 
 
During our investigation BPF changed its thoughts on Mr Ns complaint and looked to make 
an offer to put right the misrepresentations by P. It said: 
 
It had calculated the potential savings and income to Mr N from the solar panels over 
the 10-year term of the loan. If it reduced the overall cost of the loan to this amount, then 
the panels would in effect be cost neutral, and Mr N would not have suffered a financial 
loss as a result of any misrepresentation. However, when BPF carried out this 
calculation it found that the 10-year benefit was higher than the amount Mr N had 
already paid, taking into account the £4,553.50 reduction made to Mr Ns loan account. 
So, as Mr N had paid far less than the benefit hed receive from the system over 10 
years, BPF didnt think there was anything further it needed to do. 
 
BPF had also arranged for its own expert to attend Mr Ns home, with his permission, 
to inspect the solar panels. BPF reviewed this information and the comments of a further 
solar panel expert and concluded that it couldnt confirm whether the solar panels had 
been specifically designed to be installed close to the roofs edge without carrying out a 
more invasive survey. 
 
BPF would arrange and pay for Mr Ns system to have the correct labelling. 
 
It offered to pay Mr N £300 for the trouble and upset caused. 
 
One of our investigators considered whether the offer from BPF was fair. She thought that 
BPFs calculation showed that Mr N wasnt experiencing a financial loss from Ps 
misrepresentations and so overall, the offer was a fair one.  
 
Mr N didnt accept the offer from BPF. In response he said: 
 
BPFs expert hadnt inspected the solar panel system thoroughly and that it needed a 
proper inspection. 
 
The suggestion that hed had adequate compensation was wrong. His FIT payments 
shouldnt have been considered in BPFs calculation as his solar panel system is not 
producing what was originally quoted by P. 
 
He has damaged underlay not picked up by either inspection. 
 
Another one of our investigators looked at Mr Ns response and said that BPF agreed that 
Mr Ns solar panel system was not producing along the lines of Ps quote but that the 
calculation confirmed Mr Ns benefits would be greater his costs by year seven. She also 
explained that the problem with Mr Ns underlay was a new issue and would need to be raised with BPF directly, it wasnt something the Financial Ombudsman could comment on 
as part of this complaint. 
 
Mr N responded to say that his independent report was being ignored and greater weight 
was being put on the views of BPFs expert. 
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice;
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c)
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the
debtor.
As Mr N paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, BPF agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr N could claim against BPF, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract in the same way he could have claimed against 
the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr N
and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of BPF.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Mr N says he was approached by P and during a sales meeting told that the solar panel 
system would be entirely self-financing. Neither Mr P nor BPF dispute that the benefits of the 
solar panel system were misrepresented. As a result, this decision will deal with what I 
consider to be fair compensation. 
Self-funding offer 
 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the circumstances. 
 Ive considered whether it would be fair for BPF to arrange for the removal of the solar 
panels from Mr Ns home and refund him all payments he had made toward the loan; minus 
any benefits he had received. Here, I dont think it would be fair or proportionate to require 
the removal of the solar panels from his home due to the misrepresentation. Rather, I think 
fair compensation is to try and make sure that Mr N doesnt suffer a financial loss due to the 
misrepresentation which, in my view, would mean that the solar panel system would be cost 
neutral over the 10 year loan term. By allowing Mr N to keep the panels, Im satisfied that he 
will likely benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward. 
 
Mr N has settled his loan with BPF, and due to the reduction applied to the loan account, his 
total costs have been £6,959.45. BPFs calculation worked out that over ten years Mr Ns 
solar panel system would likely produce a benefit to him of £10,405.60. 
 
Ive carefully considered the methodology BPF has submitted to this service to calculate the 
total benefits of the system. This methodology is based on the actual performance and 
estimated future performance of Mr Ns solar panel system. 
 
To calculate the actual performance of Mr Ns solar panel system, BPF used his FIT 
statements and electricity bills. BPF has also outlined that when calculating the estimated 
future performance of Mr Ns solar panel system, it used a number of assumptions. Having 
considered these, Im satisfied that the assumptions that have been used by BPF provide a 
fair and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation. 
 
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied that Mr Ns system is cost neutral over the term 
of the loan and that what BPF has done puts Mr N in a fair position. 
 
Quality of the installation 
 
Both the expert report for Mr N and the report completed by BPF confirm that the quality of 
the installation wasnt to the standard that Mr N should have expected from P and BPF has 
offered to arrange having a fire warning label installed to Mr Ns system.  
 
The report provided by Mr Ns representative set out that, based on a visual inspection, the 
solar panels had been installed too close to the roofs edge. The report obtained by BPF, 
also a visual inspection, agreed that the panels were installed very close to the roof edge.   
BPF then arranged for both reports to be reviewed by a further solar panel expert. 
The expert said: 
 
Whats being asked here is a challenge and is unlikely to result in a definitive answer so 
need to manage expectations. To determine if the installation has been undertaken correctly 
in this context: 
Id need to undertake a fresh wind uplift calculation for each property taking into 
account the edge zone (this is easy) 
Determine which roof fixing hooks have been used because each fixing hook has a 
maximum upward force it can resist before it breaks/deforms etc. 
Its then possible to calculate the necessary number of roof hooks that should have 
been used to withstand the maximum calculated wind uplift on the array of solar panels 
Count if at least that number of hooks are present 
Assess if each hook has been fixed to the roof timbers in accordance with the 
manufacturers instructions (e.g. correct type of screws used etc). 
Assess if the rest of the mounting system (rails, clamps) etc are secure and nothings 
worked loose (this is easy). 
 The main challenge is 2. Above identifying the manufacturer/type of roof hook that has been 
used because they rarely have the manufacturers name or model marked on them and there 
is potentially hundreds of them which can all look similar (I attach a picture). To check if 
theyve been fixed correctly is also a challenge because if I cant identify the manufacturer, I 
cant then identify the exact type of fixing screw that should have been used from the 
manufacturers instructions. 
 
Having reviewed all the reports submitted, there is no dispute that the panels are fitted close 
to the roofs edge.  However, the second report from BPF makes it clear that that provided 
the correct fixings are used, panels can be safely and securely fixed to the roof close to the 
edge.  
Taking into account the information above, I cant conclude that the solar panels have been 
installed too close to the roofs edge as it isnt clear whether the panels have been designed 
to be installed as close as they have been
The MCS guidance explains that: 
Unless specifically designed to do so, systems should be kept away from the roof perimeter. 
For a domestic roof, a suitable minimum clearance zone is around 40-50cm. The 
requirement to keep an arrays away from a the edge of a roof is suggested because: wind 
loads are higher in the edge zones; keeping edge zones clear facilitates better access for 
maintenance and fire services; taking arrays close to the roof edge may adversely affect rain 
drainage routes; and when retrofitting systems, there is the potential for damage to ridge, 
hip, valley or eaves details.
Ive also taken into account that the panels were installed over seven years ago and no 
damage or instability has been confirmed. I think it is more likely than not that any adverse 
impact of the panels installation, or failing of the installation, would have become evident by 
now. And it hasnt. 
Taking into account the information above, I cant conclude that the solar panels have been 
installed too close to the roofs edge as this isnt something that can be confirmed by a visual 
inspection, and may not be proven even by the full removal of the panels.  
 
Therefore, I wont be asking BPF to take any further steps about the issue of the closeness 
of the solar panels to the roofs edge. 
 
In summary, Im satisfied the work that BPF has agreed to arrange and carry out to make 
Mr Ns solar panel system compliant with MCS guidelines is fair. 
 
Ongoing maintenance costs 
 
Ive looked at the current information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that 
solar panels dont need a lot of maintenance but that the inverter will need replacing 
sometime during the lifetime of the panels at a current cost of about £800. 
 
I accept that Mr N could have some maintenance and repair costs over the lifetime of the 
solar panels. The proposed approach to put things right for Mr N is to make the solar 
panels cost neutral over the original term of the loan. Based on what Mr N has paid and his 
expected benefits Mr N is highly likely to enjoy significant benefit from the solar panel 
system by way of savings and the FIT income going forward. 
 Based on the available information Im satisfied that the potential benefit will more than 
cover any future maintenance costs. Therefore, Im not persuaded that BPF should make 
an award for maintenance and repair costs. 
 
Distress and inconvenience 
 
Im satisfied that BPFs offer of £300 adequately compensates Mr N for the delays in 
uphold his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr Ns complaint. In full and final settlement of it, Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited, must: 
 
arrange, and pay for, the required repair work as it has offered to bring the 
installation of the solar panel system in line with MCS guidelines, 
 
pay Mr N £300 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman