DRN-3659143
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G trading as G have complained that the underwriter Great Lakes Insurance SE
failed to remove a vehicle theyd sold from their commercial vehicle insurance policy.
All reference to the underwriter Great Lakes in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
G says they told the broker before the renewal date in December 2019 that they had sold a
vehicle in November 2019. G says they asked for the vehicle to be removed from the policy
which provided cover for a small group of vehicles.
G didnt notice that cover remained for the vehicle in question until the renewal date in
December 2020. G contacted the broker and raised a complaint. G was unhappy that an
offer to provide a refund was offered on the condition G bought a three year policy.
Great Lakes didnt uphold the complaint. It said it didnt receive any notification of a change
to the policy in December 2019. It said the first time it was aware the vehicle had been sold
was in December 2020. Great Lakes didnt agree it acted incorrectly when it made a
business decision to offer to backdate the refund.
G asked us to look at their complaint.
Our Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied from the
documents provided by G that they had sold the vehicle in November 2019 and therefore
had no insurable interest in it. So he recommended Great Lakes provide a refund of the
premium G paid for the sold vehicle from December 2019 with interest from December 2020.
Great Lakes didnt agree. It said G is a commercial customer and responsible for checking
their renewal policy documents. If they had, they would have realised that the vehicle they
had sold was insured. It was not a large fleet of vehicles, it was four.
As the vehicle remained insured by Great Lakes, it was exposed to the risk of a claim
involving the vehicle as Great Lakes would be the registered insurer of the vehicle on the
Motor Insurer Database (MID). Great Lakes says the renewal premium was reduced based
on the number of vehicles under the policy  so by removing a vehicle this would have had
an impact on the total price.
Since issuing our view, we asked both parties for further information to establish if the sold
vehicle was dual insured since December 2019. In order to do that, an insurer requires
details of the new registered keeper to carry out checks on the MID. We asked G to provide
details of the buyer of the vehicle.
Great Lakes didnt agree it should carry out further checks. I issued a provisional decision on
31 May 2022. I intended to uphold the complaint in part. I thought Great Lakes should carry
out reasonable checks under the MID to see if the sold vehicle was dually insured. If it
showed that it was, I thought Great Lakes should provide a pro rata refund of the premium G
had paid for the sold vehicle with interest.
In response to my provisional decision, Great Lakes provided information to show it carried
out checks on the sold vehicle with the MID and found no evidence it had been dually
insured.
G didnt provide any new comments in response to my provisional decision.
I issued a second provisional decision on 19 July 2022. In light of the information available I 
didnt intend to uphold the complaint as Great Lakes appeared as the last known insurer for 
the vehicle. 
I didnt receive a reply from either party to my second provisional decision so the case has 
been passed back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision remains on the same lines as my second provisional 
decision. 
I understand G says they discussed removing the vehicle in question at renewal with the
broker in 2019. Unfortunately there is no record of this discussion. Great Lakes renewal
documents clearly included the vehicle and provided cover for it until renewal in December
2020.
I understand G didnt check the policy documents at renewal in December 2019. I cant say
this is the fault of Great Lakes as the insurer. I think that it gave G a further opportunity to
check that any changes that had been requested had been actioned.
G has provided a copy of an invoice and a copy of the DVLA slip to show they sold the
vehicle in November 2019. The invoice provides the name and address of the buyer.
In response to my first provisional decision, Great Lakes has shown that after its enquiries
with the MID, in the event of a claim involving the sold vehicle, it would remain the insurer
liable to deal with such a claim under the terms of the Road Traffic Act. So in light of this
information, I dont think Great Lakes owes G a refund of premium as there is no evidence of
dual insurance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G and G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman