DRN-3076458
The complaint
D, a limited company, complains that TSB Bank plc delayed an urgent payment from its 
account.
What happened
D submitted two pension payment requests to TSB. One of the payments was made but the 
second was blocked by TSB pending further security checks. The second payment was 
made later the same day. D complained to TSB that the delay meant the payment hadnt 
been applied in the current financial year and this created a tax penalty.
In the first response to the complaint, TSB accepted there had been a delay in making the 
payment from the account after security checks had been completed. TSB paid £62 into the 
business account 495 to recognise the inconvenience caused. D says it didnt accept this 
offer. TSB provided a final response the following month and apologised for the poor service. 
They told D theyd credited £93 into business account 506. This was in addition to the 
payment of £62.00 TSB had already paid into account 495.
D didnt agree with TSB and brought the complaint to our service. One of our Investigators 
looked into things for D and thought the amounts paid by TSB were a fair and reasonable 
remedy. D didnt agree and asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
D says the actions of TSB caused inconvenience and the directors cancelled appointments 
so they could resolve the issue. The payment was for a pension contribution, and if the 
money wasnt transferred out of the account by the end of the financial year, the income 
would have been taxed. However, for much the same reasons as the Investigator, I consider 
the amount paid by TSB was a fair and reasonable remedy. I will now explain why.
Theres no dispute the second payment was blocked. And that after security checks were 
completed the payment was delayed by a few hours. TSB acknowledge that although the 
block should have been lifted earlier than it was, the payment was delayed until shortly 
before 6:00pm the same day.
I appreciate it would have been frustrating for the directors that the payment was blocked, 
especially as the directors say they had previously provided advanced notice of the 
payment. However, regardless of any conversation a director had with TSB, the terms and 
conditions of the account explain TSB have security processes in place to stop payments 
that they, or their systems, reasonably suspect may be fraudulent. Our service cannot tell 
TSB what security checks they must carry out and its reasonable that TSB do not publish 
full details of their security processes. 
Although a director of D may have been given the impression earlier in the month the 
payment would be made, I dont consider it was unreasonable that once TSBs systems 
generated a further check the payment was blocked until checks had been completed.
The directors of D believe the payments TSB have already made for inconvenience dont 
reflect the impact on them. Nor do they believe the business has been recompensed for the 
impact of the delayed payment.
Ive seen that one of the directors from D has told us that tax would have been paid on the 
second of the pension payments if it hadnt been made in time. I acknowledge this may be 
the case, but Ive seen no evidence of any tax being paid on the second of the payments. 
The accounting period for the company was two days after the payment was made, and 
without any evidence to the contrary, it seems likely there was no tax liability to D, or the 
directors, in respect of this payment.
Ive noted the directors say they had to take time out of running the business and as a result 
the business lost income. The unfortunate consequence of banks putting in place security 
checks for payments leaving accounts is the inconvenience for individuals and businesses 
alike. But in this case, the security check was completed quickly, and the additional delay 
didnt prevent the payment being made the same day. I understand the directors of D will be 
disappointed, but I consider its not unusual for directors to experience a certain level of 
minor inconvenience in circumstances such as this. There is no evidence there was any 
additional tax paid on the pension payments. So, I consider the payment of £155 made by 
TSB for the inconvenience the short delay caused to D is a fair and reasonable one in the 
circumstances.
Im satisfied the payment of £62, made up of £50 and £12, and the payment of £93, made up 
of £75 and £18, were both paid into accounts for D. Therefore, although the Investigator 
thought the £62 may not have been paid, Im satisfied TSB did pay D a total of £155 and I 
wont be asking them to do anything else. My decision confirms the payment of £62 was 
made and I thought about issuing a provisional decision in this regard. However, Ive 
decided to issue a final decision as it is a more pragmatic approach than seeking further 
comments when Im certain the payment of £62 has already been made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I wont be asking TSB Bank plc to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman