DRN-2094325
The complaint
Miss F complains that a car that was supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance, wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator - so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Close Brothers, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss F - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Miss F was more than ten years old, had been driven for 
84,849 miles and had a price of £3,995;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is also depends on a number of factors; 
its clear that there were some issues with the car about a month after it was supplied 
to Miss F so she returned it to the dealer  Close Brothers says that the dealer did 
some minor work to the suspension arms, brake pads and reversing light switch and 
reclipped the breather pipe on the gearbox which had become dislodged and told 
Miss F that the gearbox should be looked into further;
Miss F complained to Close Brothers about the car in June 2019 and said that shed 
been told that it needed a new gearbox, the car had been repaired about nine times 
and that its mileage was about 89,000;
our investigator thought that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied to 
Miss F and that it was fair that she could reject the car so it should be collected from 
her - he said that Miss F hadnt been able to use the car from June 2019 so she 
should get a refund of the payments that shed made since then, her deposit should 
be refunded (with interest), the agreement should be removed from her credit file and 
she should be paid £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that she 
had experienced;
Close Brothers arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in July 
2020 and the inspection report said:
In our opinion based on the visible evidence we would conclude that this 
vehicle requires further investigation under workshop conditions due to the 
inability to open the vehicles bonnet to get power to the vehicle to carry out 
any in depth diagnostics, check levels or start and try and operate the vehicle. 
We did carry out a visual inspection to the underside of the vehicle where 
there were signs of gearbox and engine oil wash to the rear of the vehicle but 
again our inspection was very limited due to the vehicles condition. In our 
opinion the vehicle has been stood for a period of time due to the build up of 
mould throughout the interior panels and a heavy corrosion on all four brake 
discs. In our opinion this vehicle does require further investigation under 
workshop conditions;
Close Brothers says that its not financially viable to more the car to a workshop 
because of the mould and corrosion but it doesnt agree that Miss F should be able to 
reject the car;
where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is 
here), I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances;
having done that, I consider it be more likely than not that there were issues with the 
cars gearbox when it was supplied to Miss F in November 2018 and that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time because of those issues; 
she complained to the dealer about faults with the car in December 2018 and it said 
that they required further investigation, she says that she was told that the car 
needed a new gearbox in June 2019 so she complained to Close Brothers, shes 
stopped using the car and the inspection found signs of a leaking gearbox; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Miss F to be 
able to reject the car.
Putting things right
I consider that Close Brothers should end the conditional sale agreement and arrange for the 
car to be collected from Miss F. The conditional sale agreement shows that Miss F traded-in 
a car with a value of £300 as an advance payment and I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Close Brothers to refund to Miss F that amount, with interest.
Miss F complained to Close Brothers about the car in June 2019 and has had little of it since 
then so I agree with the investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for Close Brothers 
to refund to Miss F the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement since she 
complained to it, with interest.
I also consider that Close Brothers should remove the conditional sale agreement from 
Miss Fs credit file. These events will have caused Miss F distress and inconvenience and I 
find that it would also be fair and reasonable for Close Brothers to pay £250 to Miss F to 
compensate her for that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Fs complaint and I order Close Brothers Limited, trading as 
Close Brothers Motor Finance, to:
1. End the conditional sale agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Miss F  both at no cost to her.2. Refund to Miss F the advance payment of £300 that she made for the car.
3. Refund to Miss F the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement since 
she complained to Close Brothers in June 2019.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove the agreement from Miss Fs credit file.
6. Pay £250 to Miss F to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Close Brothers to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 4 above. Close Brothers must give Miss F a certificate showing how much tax 
its deducted if she asks it for one.
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman