DRN-1310177
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with American Express Services Europe Limiteds (Amex) process for 
making payment to his credit card account online. 
What happened
Mr C has an Amex credit card. In July 2019 he tried to make a payment to his account online 
using a newly issued debit card. He says he was unable to complete the payment without 
agreeing to store his debit card details on his Amex online portal.
Mr C was unhappy with this as he was concerned his debit card details could be 
compromised, if Amexs systems were compromised. He reluctantly agreed and stored his 
debit card details in order to complete the payment. He then complained to Amex about this 
as he felt this requirement created an unnecessary security risk.
Amex said it was unable to establish why the payment couldnt be completed without storing 
the debit card details as this was not its normal process. It asked Mr C to provide 
screenshots of the issues he was having if the problem persisted.
Unhappy with this response Mr C asked our service to look into this. He felt Amex had not 
taken the matter seriously and was demanding he provide information he could not recreate 
to support his case, which he felt was unreasonable. He said that the whole matter had 
caused him distress.
An investigator considered the complaint. They said that they were satisfied from the 
information provided that it wasnt part of Amexs usual process to require card details to be 
stored. But they couldnt explain what had happened at the time Mr C tried to make a 
payment and were mindful there could have been technical issues that caused this to 
happen. As Amex had confirmed that it had removed all debit card details stored on Mr Cs 
account they didnt think Amex needed to do more.
Mr C did not accept there may have been a technical issue and believed Amex was lying 
about its processes and misleading our service. He maintained Amex does require card 
details to be stored and considers this to be unfair and unnecessary. He also added that 
hed been lied to by other businesses when raising similar concerns and felt that by finding 
against him the investigator had questioned his integrity.
The investigator explained that they didnt doubt Mr Cs version of events and that he had 
been caused distress. But as they didnt know what exactly had happened they had to reach 
their opinion on the balance of probabilities taking into account all of the available 
information. And as Amex had confirmed no card details were now stored, they didnt think it 
needed to do anything else at this stage.
Mr C asked for the complaint to be reviewed as he felt we had not been impartial. He also 
felt Amex were guilty of extreme dishonesty and had altered its website after his complaint to 
remove the requirement he was unhappy with. And he said the fact that Amex had said it had deleted his card details proved it was lying and had stored them. As Mr C did not agree 
with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I think it is important here to first to explain the role of our service. We are an informal 
dispute resolution service and our role is to look at disputes and decide what we think is the 
fair and reasonable way to resolve matters. We are not a regulator and we dont fine or 
punish financial businesses.
Businesses have the right to determine their own internal processes using their commercial 
discretion. Our service is not a regulator, so it is not our role to interfere with or tell a 
business that it must alter its processes. So how Amex manages its online payment system 
is not something that we can instruct it to change. And like wise we wouldnt be the 
appropriate body to consider any concerns about whether this process was appropriate in 
relation to data security legislation  that would be a matter for the Information 
Commissioners Office.
Therefore, if Amex did require the details of cards being used to make payments to its credit 
card accounts to be stored before those payments could be processed, this isnt something 
we could reasonably interfere with.
But Amex has said that this is not part of its normal process. Its provided process 
documents which show that the storing of payment card details is optional. And based on 
what Ive seen it doesnt appear to be a requirement that card details be stored. Mr C has 
said he thinks Amex is lying about this and has changed its processes since he complained. 
But Ive not seen anything that would allow me to reasonably conclude Amex was being 
dishonest about this. And again, it is entitled to decide its own processes.
It isnt clear what happened when Mr C tried to make the payment in July 2019 or why the 
only solution available to him was to store his card details. And I dont doubt that this 
happened. But I cant see that this was as a result of a deliberate action by Amex. I can see 
Amex asked Mr C to provide screenshots if the problem persisted. I dont think this is 
unreasonable. Amex too couldnt explain what had happened and I think this request for 
information, in the event it happened again, was a genuine attempt to find a solution. 
Mr C hasnt incurred a financial loss as a result of what went wrong. He has said he is 
concerned that he might, in the event that Amexs systems are compromised. But I cant 
reasonably ask Amex to compensate him for something that may or may not happen in the 
future. And Amex has provided evidence all stored debit card information has been deleted 
from Mr Cs account. This was in line with his request and mitigates the chances of any 
losses, however unlikely they may be, occurring. So I dont think I can reasonably ask Amex 
to do any more.
 
Mr C has said that Amex saying it has deleted card details shows that it did store them and 
was lying. But he confirmed he took the action of storing his card details in order to complete 
the payment. And when he first complained to Amex via its online chat, he mentioned that the card he was using was different to the one Amex had on file  indicating hed previously 
provided and stored debit card details. So I dont think deleting those details that he 
acknowledged providing, in line with his request, is evidence of Amex being dishonest.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman