DRN-3520783
The complaint
Ms G complained about Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax. Ms G said she paid in £1,000 
cash at a branch, but Halifax didnt credit it to her account.
What happened
Ms G said that on Thursday 14 May 2021 she checked her online banking, to check some 
transactions shed made for her mother. She noticed that she couldnt see a £1,000 cash 
credit which she said shed paid in at a branch. The next day, she rang Halifax, but there 
were some missed calls. So Ms G went to her local branch on Saturday. She said she was 
in a panic and feeling sick.
Ms G couldnt remember when shed paid the cash in, but said it would have been some 
time between 1 March and 4 May. She didnt remember the date, but remembered what had 
happened. The £1,000 cash had been an inheritance. Shed tried to pay it in at a machine, 
but the machine kept rejecting it. So Ms G was guided to the counter. She could remember 
the individual who had served her, and described this person. 
Halifax promised a call back on the Monday, and when it did, it said it was looking into it. Ms 
G complained on 21 May.
Halifax looked into Ms Gs complaint. It looked at computer records, called a journal roll, for 
the whole period, but couldnt find a £1,000 credit.  It saw that Ms G had paid in £800 cash in 
October 2020, but Ms G said that was a different transaction. It looked closely at its records 
for the days when the individual described by Ms G had been working, but there was nothing 
showing for those days either.
In its final response, Halifax said that it had done a full investigation into the transactions 
carried out, and hadnt found any evidence of either errors or misconduct. It said it had also 
checked for any deposits made in error to any other accounts, but hadnt found any. Ms G 
had asked Halifax to look at CCTV, but Halifax explained that it only did this if there was 
strong evidence to suggest wrongdoing in a branch. If Ms G wanted that checked, shed 
need to contact the police, because it could only release CCTV as part of a police 
investigation.
Ms G wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. She explained what had happened, and 
said shed lost £1,000 which she couldnt afford to lose. She said it was upsetting because it 
was an inheritance, and shed like her money back.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint. He said he didnt dispute that Ms G had 
intended to deposit £1,000, but there wasnt enough evidence to indicate it had been 
received by the bank. It hadnt been credited to Ms Gs account; to another customer in 
error; or as a surplus in the tills; and there was nothing to suggest misconduct by bank staff.  
The investigator also said he didnt think it would be possible to obtain CCTV of Ms Gs visit 
to the branch, because Halifax only allowed it to be released as part of a police investigation. 
And in any case, it wouldnt be feasible to expect Halifax to have a member of staff looking 
through several hours of CCTV, for all the many possible dates Ms G had given for her visit 
to the branch.
Ms G said she was really disappointed. She said she hadnt intended to pay the money in, 
she had paid it in. She said it was really upsetting to be told it wasnt feasible for Halifax staff 
to go through footage, bearing in mind shed lost £1,000. She said she was being made to 
feel like a liar which was really upsetting.
The investigator replied that he hadnt intended to offend Ms G. But there was a really high 
bar that the evidence would need to reach, for him to order Halifax to pay Ms G. He added 
that Halifax had confirmed CCTV footage is only retained for 30 days, and it had previously 
said it's only made available as part of a police investigation, so it wouldnt be possible to 
obtain it. And even if CCTV footage could have been obtained, the resolution of the 
recording would only have been able to show that you handed something to a cashier. It 
wouldn't have been able to identify banknotes from other pieces of paper, let alone the 
actual amount. And he said that Halifax had also said the cashiers' tills balanced on all the 
dates in question and no error was found.
Ms G asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said no-one had ever told her that CCTV 
was only kept for 30 days. She said the CCTV was what shed need when she involved the 
police.  She wasnt happy that Halifax hadnt told her it was only kept for 30 days, as shed 
clearly told Halifax she needed it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms G is upset about this. Shes explained that she couldnt afford to 
lose the money, and it was particularly upsetting because it was an inheritance.
I cant say for certain what happened, because I wasnt there. But when that happens, I look 
at the available evidence to see what I think is most likely to have happened, in all the 
circumstances of the case.
Here, I can see that when Ms G raised the matter, Halifax carried out a number of checks. It 
found no evidence of a surplus in the branch tills, or that money had wrongly been credited 
to another customer. 
Halifax also checked the machine journal, where a failed attempt to pay in money by 
machine would have recorded the customers card number, amount, and a failure message. 
There werent any failed attempts showing for Ms Gs account for the period. 
And although Ms G didnt know exactly when shed been to the branch, she gave our 
investigator some dates which she thought were most likely. Halifax then checked the 
cashiers tills and they all balanced at the end of those days. I also think its more likely than 
not that, if the cashier had fraudulently tried to pocket the substantial amount of notes, Ms G 
would have noticed at the time, so she could have raised the alarm straightaway.
Ms G is upset that there isnt any CCTV available. CCTV is rarely kept for longer than 30 
days. This means that in any case, by the time Ms G raised the matter on 15 May, the CCTV 
for March and part of April would already have been recorded over (unless it had been 
saved because of any police investigation). I recognise that Ms G is upset that CCTV wasnt available, and that Halifax doesnt provide it 
other than for a police investigation. But I think it might not have shown what Ms G hoped in 
any case. Even if thered been a camera at the till which Ms G said she used, I think its very 
unlikely that the resolution could have shown more than that shed handed something over. I 
think it wouldnt have shown that it was banknotes, still less what those were. 
Its unfortunate that Ms G doesnt have a receipt, and that she didnt realise there was a 
problem until an unknown length of time afterwards. This makes it harder to trace what 
happened, but I accept that Halifax did as much as it could to investigate in the 
circumstances. And those investigations dont indicate any mistakes or wrongdoing. So I 
cant uphold Ms Gs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman