DRN-2428233
The complaint
Mr T complaints to Charles Stanley & Co Ltd about the performance, suitability and charges 
associated with his investments. 
What happened
Mr T had an investment portfolio with another company. But in 2012, his adviser at that 
company left and joined Charles Stanley. Mr T decided to move with him and was also told 
hed save money  his investments have remained with Charles Stanley ever since. 
Following regulatory changes, in 2019 Charles Stanley shared additional information with 
Mr T about the fees he was paying  he was surprised to see he was paying double what he 
thought he paid. He also didnt realise his investments were being managed on a 
discretionary basis. 
Mr T moved his investments to a different model, the personal portfolio service, where the 
average charges were around half of what he was paying before. He recalled that when he 
first moved to Charles Stanley, he was simply offered a service and wouldnt have thought 
to ask if there were other options available, nor were any explained  he says he simply 
relied on the adviser to guide and advise him. 
So in June 2019, he decided to make a complaint. He said, in summary:
Hed been disappointed with investment performance and the charges over the last 
seven years  while the fund had grown, he wasnt taking a pension that year 
The investment was intended to sustain his income requirements throughout 
retirement  hed reduced the income taken and stopped taking it too, but it was only 
recently that hed been made aware he was taking too much income
He hadnt ever had a clear understanding of the charges until hed seen a recent 
report  the charges were double what he thought he was paying 
He wasnt aware he had a discretionary managed portfolio  this was expensive and 
not suitable for him given the amount of money he had to invest
He should have been on a lower cost model and the adviser should have 
recommended this
Charles Stanley looked into his concerns and sent him a final response letter in August 
2019. They said, in summary:
New regulations meant they were required to disclose underlying costs but these had 
always been paid
Hed benefitted from a preferential rate and this was a reduction from what hed been 
paying with his former advisers 
They didnt think the charges were excessive and instead thought the portfolio was 
suitable
Theyd spoken to the current adviser and hed explained that performance had been 
discussed at each meeting 
Hed also said the portfolio had maintained its position well in terms of balancing the 
capital while paying income
The adviser felt the risk and performance was in line with Mr Ts objectives and 
circumstances 
The withdrawals were means tested by the pension provider in line with age and life 
expectancy  the adviser felt the income being taken wasnt excessive 
When Mr T became a client in 2012, hed selected the discretionary service as his 
preferred option and this was in line with the same level of service hed had with the 
same adviser when hed been working at a former firm for more than a decade
The discretionary service was the most appropriate option for Mr T as he didnt want 
to be actively involved on the account and the size of the portfolio was not a concern
Mr T remained unhappy so he asked for our help. He said he saw his complaint as one of 
two halves  firstly the performance and secondly the fees. He said he felt Charles Stanleys 
answer on the first point was fair, so he would not pursue that. But he still wasnt happy 
about the fees  which included his concerns about the discretionary model. He felt hed 
paid unnecessary fees and would like the difference between them and what he should have 
been paying to be refunded. He thought his portfolio was too small for a discretionary service 
 and hed looked at other fund managers online and their minimum investment 
requirements were in excess of £200,000. He felt his portfolio (when transferred) worth 
c£150,000 therefore fell short of that. 
One of our investigators had a look at what had happened. But having done so, she didnt 
think Charles Stanley had done anything wrong. She said the original application form 
showed there were various services on offer and discretionary had been ticked  while the 
adviser may have completed the form to help out, the onus remained on Mr T to review it 
before signing to accept. She said the documents shared at the time explained the services 
too. So while Mr T was unhappy about how much hed paid, our investigator didnt think 
Charles Stanley should refund some of their charges.
Mr T didnt agree. He thought the outcome our investigator had arrived at had largely fallen 
on the fact hed signed a form, which he felt was disappointing. He said, in summary:
Charles Stanleys main point is that the discretionary service was ticked on the 
original application  but this is not in dispute. He felt there was more to this than 
simply ticking a box, after all, he felt many PPI refunds have been made based on 
similar circumstances. He asked us to look beyond the signed form and at the wider 
advice and circumstances in order to arrive at a more rounded view of the situation
While our investigator had said he ought to have read the terms which explained the 
discretionary service, he is not an expert and was relying on his adviser as the expert 
to guide him. He agreed that he could have noticed the various nuances of the 
different sections of the form but he was relying on the adviser to guide him
A crucial point is that he switched away from the discretionary service as soon as he 
was made aware there was an alternative  this was not at all coincidental 
This switched followed the disclosure of the total fees which hed been paying, so this 
supports the fact he was unaware hed been paying these 
And regarding the fee disclosure, seeing as this followed a rule change this suggests 
there were a number of people in a similar position in terms of unknown fees and 
unknown alternatives 
Although he moved to Charles Stanley to follow his adviser, his adviser had later 
been dismissed and so this, along with the other circumstantial events taken in the 
round make a strong case  he asked if the adviser was dismissed for advising other 
clients incorrectly
And lastly, that our investigator had suggested he was asking for the difference in 
fees he did pay compared with what he thinks he ought to have paid  but that this 
wasnt something hed saidOur investigator reviewed Mr Ts points. She didnt think the comparison with PPI was 
relevant, especially as this wasnt a pre-filled or computer generated form which Mr T 
disputed or had no knowledge of. And from the documentation shed seen, she thought the 
level of service had been referenced in various documents so if there was anything he didnt 
understand or wanted to question, he could have done so. 
Our investigator didnt dispute the fact Mr T had changed the service when he found out 
about the alternative, but didnt think this meant Charles Stanley had necessarily done 
anything wrong. She also said Mr T had asked for the difference in fees to be refunded on 
his complaint form, so this was something hed suggested. And that she couldnt comment 
on the personal circumstances surrounding the adviser or why he might have left. 
Mr T remained unhappy  he felt that when looked at in the round there was a weight of 
evidence to support his arguments, not least the new rules which underlined thered been a 
problem with transparency. As our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind, the 
case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I begin, I must say that as Mr T has said he only wants to pursue concerns regarding 
the type of account and fees associated with it, I have not reviewed the performance or 
suitability concerns that were initially raised. 
Its not in dispute that when Mr T opened his account with Charles Stanley he signed a form 
to open a discretionary account. Ive reviewed this form which was dated October 2012 and 
the part relevant here said Please select the investment service you would like to have. 
There were then five options to choose from:
- discretionary collectives portfolio service  investment decisions managed by Charles 
Stanley
- discretionary managed direct investment  investment decisions managed by 
Charles Stanley
- advisory managed portfolio  recommendations made by Charles Stanley
- execution-only investments  no requirement for Charles Stanley to manage the 
investment or make recommendations 
- fasttrade internet dealing service  an online version of the above 
Mr Ts application was ticked to confirm opening a discretionary managed direct investment 
account. Mr T says his adviser filled this application form in, so he wasnt aware of the other 
options. I take his point on this, and it is not uncommon for advisers to help clients with this 
sort of paperwork. But as our investigator said, before signing it was for Mr T to review the 
information the adviser had recorded to make sure he was happy with what had been 
disclosed or selected. And in my view, it was quite clear that there were options as to which 
service could be chosen  the five tick box options were set out across a page, so Mr T 
ought to have been aware there were alternatives.
In addition, Ive reviewed Charles Stanleys document titled our services and business 
terms which was dated November 2011. On page two, this explained:
This booklet contains a description of our services together with our Standard 
Business Terms, which are on pages 2 to 33. These, together with your Account 
Form (and in the case of some services we provide, any additional signed 
documentation we require) constitute the legal contract between us.Page three of this document then explained the differences between discretionary 
management, advisory managed, advisory dealing and execution-only. So again, Mr T ought 
to have been aware that there were different services on offer from Charles Stanley. From 
what Ive seen, while Mr T may not have been fully aware of the varying charging structures 
which may lay behind each option, he ought to have been aware that there were options 
which he could have enquired about. 
In a letter dated 3 October 2012, I note the adviser explained:
There will be an annual management fee of 0.5% + VAT in addition there
will be a commission charge of 1.25% per deal. Lastly there will be a standard 
contract charge of £10 per transaction. As previously mentioned in our telephone 
conversation, I have agreed to waive all investment management fees and dealing 
commissions until the 1st of January 2013. The £10 contract charge will however be 
levied.
Ive also reviewed a letter sent on 10 September 2013 which explained some changes to 
charges. Attached was additional information and this explained that the annual 
management fee and the transaction fees were increasing. So I can see Charles Stanley 
explained the fee structure to Mr T too. 
I appreciate Mr T feels that despite there being other options and despite what was 
explained about the charges, the overriding point is that it wasnt right for him to have had a 
discretionary arrangement with the firm given the costs involved relative to the size of his 
portfolio. But I dont think its as simple as this. 
Although Mr T may have paid more for a discretionary service, it could have been what the 
adviser felt was most suitable  especially given that the other options at the time were 
either advisory or no advice. The adviser has said Mr T didnt want to be actively involved 
with the account, so it is understandable the discretionary service was chosen given the 
advisory service would have required Mr Ts authorisation for each trading decision. 
Importantly, while other firms might have different minimum investment levels for 
discretionary services, the fact that Charles Stanley didnt  or that their minimum was lower 
than others  isnt something I would look to comment on. Its for firms to decide how to run 
their business and what services to offer, so if Charles Stanley thought Mr Ts c£150,000 
portfolio was suitable for discretionary investment then we wouldnt look to challenge that.
Mr T has now moved to another service  he says this is clearly evidence hed have sought 
such a move far earlier had he have known about the options. But the service hes moved to 
now is different to the discretionary one he had before  he cannot compare them as like for 
like. The discretionary approach allowed the adviser to build a bespoke portfolio and to 
manage capital gains tax. It also allowed Mr T to seek advice from the adviser. Whereas the 
service Mr T has now moved to involves investing his money into one of the five in-house 
funds without consideration for tax or ad hoc advice. So I am not persuaded that simply 
because Mr T has changed services now, that he would have done so earlier. While Mr T may now say he didnt ever want or need the discretionary service, the options 
were clearly explained at the time, so we cannot apply hindsight to say hed have done 
something differently based on the price sensitivity he now explains. From what I 
understand, Mr T worked on a discretionary basis with the adviser at the former firm and 
continued in the same vein with Charles Stanley. The charges were explained and so had he 
have wanted to query this or explore other cheaper options, he could have done so. And 
although I take his point in that he was reliant on the adviser as the expert, this did not 
prevent him from asking questions about how he may access these expert services or how 
much they cost. 
Mr T remains concerned about the disclosure of fees and feels the rule change suggests 
there was a wider issue in this space. By way of background, in January 2018 the second 
EU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, otherwise known as MiFID II, and the 
Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products Regulation (PRIIPs) took effect 
in the UK. The legislation had a wide remit, but one of the requirements that is relevant here 
was that any costs or charges associated with investing needed to be clearly set out. For this 
reason, Charles Stanley had to begin reporting on the underlying charges Mr Ts investment 
was incurring. 
As Charles Stanley mentioned in their final response letter, the underlying charges were not 
new  these, or similar, were always associated with Mr Ts investments as well as charges 
incurred as part of the agreement  they are quite usual and will vary from provider to 
provider. Its just that Charles Stanley werent required to report them in the way they are 
required to now. This doesnt mean they did anything wrong before though or that they need 
to compensate Mr T, instead, they were adhering to new regulations as they evolved. 
I appreciate Mr T felt surprised and that the charges were too high, but this isnt something 
our service would involve ourselves with  lower charges of course sound more appealing, 
but they dont necessarily mean a fund will perform better as a result. And while his new 
service is cheaper, it doesnt necessarily mean Mr Ts fund will keep better pace with his 
planned income. Similarly, although Mr T may feel hes paid too much by way of charges 
over the last seven years, it isnt necessarily the case that his investment would have 
performed in the same way  it could have done better or worse on another service  so he 
may not be disadvantaged in the way he feels. While it may be possible to reconstruct what 
a different service might have cost or how it would have performed over the years, for the 
reasons I have explained above, I am not persuaded this would be necessary or reasonable 
given alternatives were explained at the outset. 
While I appreciate Mr T will remain unhappy and thinks the charges were too high, from all 
that I have seen I cant see Charles Stanley did done anything wrong here, so I wont be 
asking them to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 
9 July 2021. 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman