DRN-1986865
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Gefion Insurance A/S. He isnt happy about the way it dealt with 
a claim under his commercial insurance motor policy.
What happened
Mr D took out a commercial insurance policy for his van. Unfortunately it was stolen and 
Gefion paid out the market value of his van. Mr D was told that he would be able to place 
another vehicle on cover when he reported the theft. 
However, when Gefion settled the claim and paid Mr D the value of his van it simply 
cancelled the policy and asked Mr D to pay the remaining premium. As Mr D wasnt happy 
about this he complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. Although he accepted 
that Gefion was allowed to cancel in line with the terms and conditions of the policy he didnt 
feel this was fair to Mr D. He explained that this service ordinarily expects an insurer to allow 
Mr D to place another vehicle on cover. So he asked Gefion to allow Mr D to place another 
vehicle on cover.
As Gefion didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I agree the matter should 
be upheld but Im proposing a change in outcome. Ill explain why.
As Mr Ds policy has in effect paid out following the theft of his van the policy allows Gefion 
to take the steps it has taken, and it can cancel the policy. The policy has ended as Mr Ds 
van has been stolen and a total loss payment made.
However, this service has always maintained that the fair and reasonable thing for an insurer 
to do is for it to allow cover to continue and for Mr D to be able to place a new van on cover. 
I understand this was what Mr D was told he could do when he first reported the van stolen 
to his insurer. But for some reason Gefion changed its position and cancelled the policy and 
demanded payment of the remaining premium.
This put Mr D in a very difficult position as he was having to pay his remaining premium 
while trying to buy a new van so he could remain in business. Mr Ds business is only small 
and this would have had a crippling affect. So, the fair and reasonable thing to do was for 
Gefion to allow Mr D to place a new van on cover so he could continue with his business. If 
Mr Ds new van was a higher risk then it could have charged an increased premium but it 
didnt consider this.
Ive not been told what Mr D did and he can update me following this provisional decision if 
he wishes. But as I think he shouldve been allowed to place another van on cover I think the 
fair thing to do is to refund or waive any outstanding premium from the time of claim. If Mr D 
managed to get insurance elsewhere I may consider any increased costs he has incurred 
because of this but at the moment I believe this is a fair outcome.
I also think Mr D should be paid £150 compensation by Gefion. I say this as he has had to 
try and keep his business going and shouldve simply been allowed to place another van on 
cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive considered again the detail of this case in full, neither side has responded in 
any detail about the matter, so I dont propose to go over the case or detail again.  
I did allow more time in the current environment for any further representations, particularly 
from Mr D given the potential affect things couldve had on him. But Mr D didnt provide any 
further detail. But he has indicated to the investigator that he feels the outcome Ive outlined 
seems fair.
As such, I see no reason to change my opinion. I remain of the view that this complaint 
should be upheld for the reasons given above.
My final decision
It follows that I uphold Mr Ds complaint for the reasons given above. And I require Gefion 
Insurance A/S to pay Mr D £150 compensation and to refund or waive any premium owed 
from the date of claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman