DRN-3955857
The complaint
The estate of Mr S and Ms N are unhappy with the service received when Mr S made a 
claim on his travel insurance policy.
The estate of Mr S is represented by Ms N who is the wife of the late Mr S and a beneficiary 
of the policy in her own right.
What happened
Mr S and Ms N travelled abroad in December 2020 to a country Ill refer to as S. They were 
both covered by a travel insurance policy linked to a package bank account.
Unfortunately, Mr S and Ms N both contracted Covid-19. At that time S was experiencing a 
high level of Covid-19 infections which was placing a significant amount of pressure on 
public and private facilities.
Mr S and Ms N were both very unwell. Mr S was admitted to a public hospital due to the 
severity of his symptoms. Both he and Ms N were worried about the care he was receiving in 
the public hospital. Ms N wanted to move him to a private facility and shes unhappy with the 
service and support she received from AXA during this time.
Mr S was moved to a private hospital but sadly died. Ms N says that his lungs had been 
badly damaged and that his death could have been avoided if hed received better care. 
Shes also unhappy that she had to go to considerable efforts to find a private hospital which 
AXA could have taken care of. She complained to AXA.
In June 2021 AXA issued a final response letter. They said that the chain of communication 
with the local agent wasnt as fluid as it could have been. But they said that they use an 
agent due to difficulties in making contact with hospitals directly in the relevant country. They 
didnt agree their inaction had contributed to Mr Ss decline and said they had no reason to 
believe the standard of care at the public hospital was inadequate. AXA also denied theyd 
contributed to the decline in Mr Ss health. Finally, they said Mr Ss health had declined 
following intubation, not because of a progressive deterioration.
When our investigator queried who was responsible for the complaint AXA said it had 
responded to two service complaints and awarded a total of £375 for poor call handling, a 
lack of claims updates and delays in settling the claim. Ms Ns claim for medical bills was 
settled in April 2021.
Our investigator then looked into what had happened, focusing on the issues raised in the 
final response letter that AXA had issued. Those issues were in relation to medical 
assistance and poor communication whilst Mr S was unwell. She thought AXA should have 
been more prepared to issue a guarantee of payment to the private hospital. So, she thought 
they should refund Ms N bank charges she incurred, if Ms N was able to evidence the 
charges. She also said that AXA could have provided better customer service but there was 
no medical evidence to show that Mr S would have survived had he moved to a private 
hospital sooner. The investigator also recommended AXA reviewed Ms Ns telephone call 
costs and bank charges incurred, subject to evidence of the costs incurred being provided. 
But, overall, she thought the offer of £375 compensation was fair and reasonable.
AXA said that they accepted the investigators recommendations. Ms N said she no longer 
had access to the phone records as she was using a pay as you go SIM card whilst abroad. 
And she said she wasnt sure that shed be able to get copies of the relevant bank 
statements. Ms N asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
The complaint was passed me to make a decision. I asked AXA to clarify details of the £375 
award made to Ms N  they confirmed that AXA had made the award for issues in claim 
handling. However, they said these were separate to the final response letter it had issued in 
June 2021.
In January 2023 I issued a provisional decision. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, based on the evidence available to me, Im satisfied that AXA Insurance UK 
Plc is responsible for this complaint. It underwrites the travel insurance policy Mr S 
and Ms N had as part of the benefits of a package bank account. AXA has referred to 
another business, which oversees the assistance provided to policyholders abroad. 
But, as the underwriter of the policy, AXA has ultimate responsibility for the 
performance of the insurance contract  that includes the medical assistance and 
claims handling.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. The policy 
terms and conditions cover medical assistance. Theres no dispute about that as 
AXA accepts Mr Ss treatment abroad was covered by the policy.
The crux of this complaint is about delays in communication during the time that 
medical assistance was being provided, the use of a local agent and whether AXA 
contributed to the decline of Mr Ss health. AXA has confirmed theyve paid 
compensation for other issues, not addressed within their final response to this 
complaint. AXA says its previous offers for compensation in the sum of £375 relate 
to other aspects of claim handling. So, my decision will focus on the points covered in 
AXAs final response letter dated 15 June 2021. Based on the evidence currently 
available to me, Ms N has not been offered any compensation in relation to this 
specific complaint.
Initial contact with AXA
Ms N says that the initial case handler didnt open two separate files, one for her and 
one for Mr S. Based on the evidence Ive seen I dont think that impacted on the 
service she received from AXA.Ms N also says that the case handler didnt send her case opening packs as hed 
said he would. I can see that these were emailed to the wrong email address and 
then re-sent to the correct email address around five days later. That was an error 
and shouldnt have happened.
AXA asked Ms N to help with getting a medical report  theyd appointed a local 
agent to help and were trying to get as much information as possible from the 
hospital. Ms N had explained it was difficult to make contact and I think AXA were 
doing everything they could to speed up getting a medical report.
Ms N feels she should have been told that a medical report was needed in order to 
transfer Mr S to a private facility. I think throughout the claim it was made clear that 
AXA needed medical information from the treating team in order to decide on next 
steps. But, it would have been helpful for AXA to make it clearer to Ms N that a 
transfer was dependent on this information.
Concerns about the public hospital
AXA isnt responsible for the care provided by a public hospital. However, I would 
expect AXA to take reasonable steps to address any concerns raised about the 
adequacy of care during a medical assistance claim.
When Mr S was admitted AXA said that it had no concerns that the public facility 
wasnt adequate to treat Mr S. The assistance log shows Ms N raised this during a 
call and again during subsequent conversations.
AXA requested information from their agent about the public facility quickly and 
queried whether it would be possible to transfer Mr S. I can see that AXA was 
chasing the local agent for a response to these queries. Thats what Id expect AXA 
to do in such situations and Im satisfied they took reasonable steps to address those 
concerns.
Im satisfied that AXA took Ms Ns concerns about the adequacy of care seriously 
and responded appropriately.
Transferring Mr S to a private facility
Ms N says that various private beds were lost due to AXA not following quickly 
enough with the relevant private facilities. Shes also frustrated that she had to look 
for beds rather than AXA.
Its important to reiterate that, at the time Mr S was unwell, S was experiencing 
extremely high levels of Covid infections which placed a significant strain on the 
public and private health facilities. Both AXA and Ms N have commented on the 
difficulty in obtaining information from the treating hospital and in securing private 
beds. Unfortunately, this meant it was difficult to obtain up to date information about 
the availability of private beds and the details of the care available at the private 
facilities. I dont think AXA expected Ms N to look for beds. However, given that she 
was in the local area and was able to physically attend some of the facilities it did 
mean she was able to find out information more quickly than AXA via its agents.I also think its important to highlight that securing a private bed on behalf of Mr S 
involved a number of factors to consider. The main consideration was the suitability 
of that facility to treat Mr S, including whether the hospital could treat Mr S in the 
event that he needed critical care.
I can understand why Ms N felt that AXA were slow to respond when she found a 
private bed. But, each time she located one, the appropriate steps had to be taken to 
ensure it was suitable to treat Mr S. It may have seemed to Ms N that this was 
bureaucratic but I think it was done to ensure the best possible clinical outcome for 
Mr S and to avoid the need to move him again in an emergency or in the event he 
needed treatment in intensive care.
Ms N also felt there was a lot of red tape when it came to moving Mr S. But Im 
satisfied AXA was taking appropriate action to obtain information, including working 
with a local agent and asking Ms N for information where possible. I also think they 
were trying to ensure that Mr S was moved safely and his health wasnt 
compromised during the transfer. I also bear in mind that, during the majority of the 
time Mr S was in the public facility, the treating team said there were no signs of 
respiratory distress and Mr S wasnt in a critical condition.
When Ms N first called to say shed found a bed at a private hospital this information 
was promptly passed on to the local agent. They called the private hospital within a 
reasonable time frame to check availability. Although a bed wasnt available, I think 
this information was actioned within a reasonable timescale. I can also see from the 
assistance notes that AXA was also considering alternative facilities which could treat 
Mr S at that time and were actively making enquiries about whether beds were 
available.
Ms N arranged to transfer Mr S to a second private facility and wanted help from AXA 
with an ambulance. AXA explained they couldnt authorise this within such a short 
time frame, but that Ms N could pay and claim. However, AXAs medical team then 
made direct contact with the relevant hospital to move the transfer forward. They 
then took steps to arrange the transfer, including checking the facilities at the private 
hospital. Overall, I think that AXA was taking reasonable steps to ensure it was 
appropriate to move Mr S to that facility. However, unfortunately, the bed became 
unavailable during the time that these checks were being made.
Ms N had, by then, found a further bed in a different private hospital and the medical 
team checked with the agent it was suitable for Mr Ss treatment. It then became 
apparent, following further information being received, that Mr S was now in a critical 
condition  this was confirmed by a doctor who said he needed an urgent transfer to 
an intensive care unit.
Later that day the transfer was approved, and a guarantee of payment sent. This was 
sent once the agent had confirmed the private facility could treat Mr S and a bed was 
available. Mr S was moved the same day.
This was a stressful and frustrating day for Ms N as she was worried the bed would 
be lost. As she hadnt had the guarantee of payment, she borrowed a significant 
amount of money to secure the bed and arrange the ambulance. I can entirely 
understand why she did this and how stressful this must have been for her.
I think AXA ought to have been more prepared to issue the guarantee of payment by 
this point. AXA accepted our investigators findings on this point. There had been 
significant difficulties in obtaining information and beds. This was the fourth attempt to admit Mr S to a private facility. The delay left Ms N in a position where she felt she 
had to raise significant funds personally to secure the bed, even though AXA was 
happy to move Mr S to a private facility and was happy with the facility. I also bear in 
mind that there had been a change in Mr Ss condition as, by that time, he was in a 
critical condition.
On 10 January 2021 Ms N informed AXA that Mr S was deteriorating and was very 
distressed. However, she was happy with the level of care. AXA continued to chase 
for updated medical reports and these were reviewed by the medical team. They also 
made contact with the treating team directly to discuss Mr Ss condition. Due to Mr 
Ss critical condition other options, such as repatriation, were limited. However, AXA 
were actively considering what options were available during the time Mr S remained 
in hospital. Sadly, Mr S passed away whilst in hospital.
Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that AXA caused unavoidable delays which 
impacted on Mr Ss medical condition or that led to a deterioration in his medical 
condition. Unfortunately, the impact of Covid-19 and the pressure on medical 
facilities made locating and checking facilities difficult. I think AXA acted in Mr Ss 
best interests and was committed to ensuring he was treated in a facility that was 
equipped to deal with all eventualities, including critical care.
However, I do think that AXA ought to have been more prepared to issue the 
guarantee of payment given the previous issues in securing a bed and the need to 
act quickly when a bed was available. Based on Ms Ns testimony and AXAs notes it 
took several hours to resolve this via the local agent. Its unclear from AXAs notes 
why it took so long for this to be communicated to the hospital via the agent.
Ms N sourced the funds herself and was incredibly stressed that a suitable bed would 
be lost, at a time when her husband was in a critical condition. I think AXA ought to 
pay Ms N further compensation of £500 in recognition of the lack of support she 
received at this time. At this time her father was also very unwell, and she was still 
struggling with her own health following Covid-19. I think this uncertainty, and the fact 
that Ms N had to find the money herself to secure the bed, caused her significant 
distress and inconvenience.
AXAs use of a local agent
As Ive outlined above the situation in S was complex at the relevant time due to the 
prevalence of Covid-19. Its common for insurers to use a local agent to help in cases 
where there are difficulties in obtaining information from a treating hospital or to make 
arrangements to move patients to a different location.
I can appreciate why Ms N feels it caused delays, but I am satisfied it was 
reasonable for AXA to use an agent. Its clear from the notes that there were 
difficulties in getting information from hospitals and that in AXAs experience use of 
an agent was the best way to achieve results most quickly.
Having reviewed all of the case notes Im satisfied AXA needed the agents input on a 
number of issues, including the suitability of facilities and arranging payments to 
them. It seems most likely to me that, had an agent not been involved, the process 
would have taken longer and communication would have been even more 
challenging.Customer service
I understand that Ms N was frustrated to have to repeat information about the 
circumstances to various case handlers, especially given that she was unwell and 
dealing with a highly stressful and upsetting situation. I can also understand how it 
may have seemed that there was a lack of case ownership.
However, AXA operate a 24/7 emergency assistance service for lots of customers. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable that the advisors werent always familiar with the 
specific circumstances of the case and the full details of it.
I can also see that at times the assistance team were dealing with the case it was 
difficult to contact Ms N. Thats entirely understandable as she was, of course, 
dealing with trying to help Mr S and was also unwell herself. I also understand Ms Ns 
father was also unwell and also sadly died whilst Ms S was in hospital.
Telephone calls
The policy does cover the cost of calls made to and received by the medical 
assistance line. Ms N says that she no longer has access to this information given 
the passage of time and because she was using a pay as you go SIM. I accept that 
this is the case as I find her testimony credible and persuasive.
There were multiple calls between Ms N and the assistance line. Bearing in mind the 
number of calls, and the nature of them, I think it would be fair and reasonable for 
AXA to pay a total of £200 in recognition of the calls Ms N had to make and receive. 
In reaching that conclusion I bear in mind that there were a number of times when 
Ms N was calling to chase AXA for information.
Bank charges
Ms N told us that she also incurred bank charges as a result of making payments to 
various providers up front and obtaining funds to pay for treatment. Shes not 
provided evidence of this. As our investigator explained it should be possible to 
provide this information as bank statements are typically available for a period of six 
years.
In the absence of evidence on this point I dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
to direct AXA to cover these costs as that information should still be available to 
Ms N.
Putting things right
AXA accepted our investigators findings. So, they acknowledge there were failings in 
the service theyve provided. When asked to clarify the awards made in relation to 
this complaint, theyve confirmed that they did not relate to the issues raised in the 
final response issued in June 2021.
Im intending to direct AXA to pay Ms N total of £700 compensation. Based on the 
information I currently have thats in addition to the £375 offered for other matters. 
The £700 compensation includes:£200 for phone calls Ms N made to and from the medical assistance line
£500 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms N by delays in issuing 
a guarantee of payment when a private bed had been found. This caused Ms 
N to source funds from family and friends to pay for the ambulance and 
private bed. This was at a time when she had exhausted her private funds 
already and was dealing with both her husband and father being seriously ill.
Ms N and AXA didnt make any further comments on the outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms N and AXA didnt provide any additional comments about my findings there is no 
reason for me to reach a different outcome to that which I outlined above in my provisional 
decision. My provisional findings form part of my final decision. 
Putting things right
Im directing AXA to pay Ms N total of £700 compensation. Thats in addition to the £375 
offered for other matters. The £700 compensation includes:
£200 for phone calls Ms N made to and from the medical assistance line
£500 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms N by delays in issuing 
a guarantee of payment when a private bed had been found. This caused Ms 
N to source funds from family and friends to pay for the ambulance and 
private bed. This was at a time when she had exhausted her private funds 
already and was dealing with both her husband and father being seriously ill.
My final decision
Im upholding Ms N and the estate of Mr Ss complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc and 
direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N and the 
estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman