DRN-2309601
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Society of Lloyds (MMS) has declined a claim she made on her 
homeowners income protection policy.
What happened
Mrs W purchased an income protection policy in January 2016, via a broker. She paid 
around £40 each months for a maximum monthly benefit of £1000 per month. The policy 
was designed to protect her income in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Mrs W became absent from work with symptoms of anxiety and depression in July 2017. 
She made a claim on her income protection policy in June 2018. In September 2018 
MMS declined the claim on the basis that the claim was linked to a pre-existing condition. 
Mrs W explained that, whilst she had suffered from mental health conditions previously, 
this was a separate issue. She also said that shed only recently been diagnosed with 
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). MMS agreed to look at further medical 
information from Mrs Ws treating team but ultimately decided to decline the claim. Mrs W 
made a complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint. He 
didnt think it was unreasonable for MMS to decline the claim. He referred to the definition 
of pre-existing medical conditions in the policy terms and explained that Mrs W had 
experienced ongoing anxiety and depression for some time. And he thought that the further 
evidence from Mrs Ws treating team suggested that the PTSD was linked to her pre-
existing illnesses.
Mrs W didnt agree. She said the medical evidence confirmed there was no relationship 
between her previous absence from work and her current long-term absence. She also 
said that she has had continuous cover for some time and wants her premiums to be 
reinstated because shes no longer working. She provided further medical information 
which she says supports her case. So I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs W has had a very difficult time over the last few years. Its clear that 
shes experienced some very upsetting and traumatic family events. I also understand 
shes recently lost her employment. So I have a great deal of empathy for her 
circumstances based on what shes told our service during the course of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that MMS has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The general exclusions in the policy say that MMS wont cover claims due to a pre-
existing medical condition. The policy defines a pre-existing medical condition as:
Any condition, injury, illness, disease, sickness or related condition and/or 
associated symptoms, whether specifically diagnosed or not, for which medical 
evidence shows you knew about or were experiencing symptoms that you would 
have been aware of at the cover increase date or for which you sought or 
received advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor in the 12 months prior 
to the cover increase date and within the 24 months prior to commencement of 
claim.
The key issue for me to decide is whether it was reasonable for MMS to reject Mrs Ws 
claim on the basis of the information she provided in support of her claim.
Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint because:
MMS werent responsible for the sale of the policy as the policy was sold via a 
broker. So, if Mrs W is unhappy with the information or advice she received about 
the policy thats something shell need to complain to her broker about. However, 
I note that around the time Mrs W took out the policy she was noted by her GP to 
be experiencing symptoms of anxiety and depression and was receiving 
treatment including medication and Cognitive Behavioural Therapy. She was also 
off work at that time with what her employer described as psychological problems
Mrs W had a history of mental health problems which is reflected in detail within 
her medical notes. Between 2015 and 2018 she accessed treatment and 
support from a number of different services. She was frequently described as 
having anxiety and depression and she was also treated with medication and 
counselling. When Mrs W submitted her claim form she said that she was 
experiencing a severe depressive episode. So, given Mrs Ws medical history, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for MMS to conclude that she had a pre-existing 
mental health condition that met the definition in the policy terms
Ive taken into account that Mrs W says she was only diagnosed with PTSD in 
2018. But the event which has triggered the PTSD took place around five years 
before. And there are frequent references to this event in Mrs Ws medical 
records. So, in line with the policy terms, this wouldnt be covered as the medical 
notes show that shed experienced symptoms for some time and accessed 
treatment and counselling for them. So, whilst the diagnosis may have been more 
recent, I dont think that it was unreasonable for MMS to conclude that the 
symptoms had been present for some time and that it was a pre-existing condition 
as defined in the policy
Ive also taken into account the information Mrs W has recently provided, 
including a further report from her psychotherapist. But this change my thoughts 
about the outcome of this complaint because it says that the PTSD is 
subsequent to her anxiety and depression. And whilst the report concludes that 
this is a new diagnosis and presentation I dont think thats consistent with the 
other medical evidence. And, as Ive outlined above, the traumatic events took 
place some time ago and have often been cited as relevant to Mrs Ws mental 
health
Mrs W says that she ought to have had continuous cover. But the policy has renewed annually and therefore each year a new contract of insurance was put 
into place each year. Im aware that Mrs W used a broker when she took out the 
policy but its her responsibility to check each year whether the level of cover was 
right for her. If thats something that she discussed with her broker each year then 
shell need to make a complaint to the broker about this
Mrs W also told us that shes still paying the premiums for the policy. However, if 
she didnt want the cover anymore the policy allows for cancellation with 14 days 
notice with no charge. Mrs W hasnt suggested that shes asked MMS to cancel 
the policy so this point doesnt change my thoughts about the outcome of this 
complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
Anna Wilshaw
 
Ombudsman