DRN-2872241
The complaint
Mr A has complained about his car insurance broker, Close Brothers Limited (CBL) as it 
charged him £30 when it didnt receive a monthly payment from him. He thinks thats unfair.
What happened
Mr A agreed to pay a new policy, arranged by CBL, by monthly direct debit. His first monthly 
payment was due in March 2021. But before it was due Mr As bank contacted CBL saying 
there was an error with the payment mandate and the direct debit instruction had been 
cancelled. CBL was then unable to take the March payment and wrote to Mr A charging him 
a £30 late payment fee. When Mr A objected, CBL insisted he pay this sum, Mr A did but 
complained to us.
Our investigator felt CBL had acted in line with the terms of the contract Mr A had signed 
and agreed with. So she wasnt minded to make CBL refund this sum. Mr A asked for an 
ombudsmans consideration as he felt that whilst the terms allowed a charge to be made, 
CBL having done so, in these circumstances, was unfair. He said that was because the 
funds for the monthly payment had been available in his bank account and they only werent 
paid because CBL hadnt called for them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this was frustrating for Mr A. But Im not persuaded that he was charged the £30 
sum unfairly by CBL. 
Mr A agreed to pay his premiums by monthly direct debit and signed an agreement which 
authorised his bank to set up the direct debit. I can see that CBL did its part to instruct the 
bank, but the bank told CBL that the instructions presented to it were invalid. Its not clear to 
me why the bank felt the details were invalid  they seem to be the ones CBL was given by 
Mr A and which it later verified as correct. But with the banks action CBL couldnt collect the 
monthly fee and this effectively meant the payment was late. Ideally CBL wouldve tried to 
contact Mr A shortly after receiving the advice from the bank. But, even if it had, Im not 
persuaded, given the relatively close dates concerned, a late payment couldve been 
avoided. In the circumstances, I dont think CBL acted unfairly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Close Brothers Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman