DRN-1645031
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) acted irresponsibly when 
lending to him. 
What happened 
Between March 2018 and January 2019 Cashfloat provided Mr C with six instalment loans. 
Heres a table setting out details of the loans:  
loan start date date paid instalments amount repayment
1 09/03/2018 10/03/2018 6 £500 £135.21
2 08/05/2018 15/05/2018 4 £700 £263.70
3 14/08/2018 21/08/2018 4 £900 £333.41
4 22/08/2018 04/09/2018 4 £1,100 £467.62
5 10/12/2018 08/01/2019 4 £500 £189.92
6 08/01/2019 20/02/2019 4 £600 £229.32
 
Mr C feels that Cashfloat shouldnt have given him loans it shouldve realised were 
unaffordable. He says the loans added to his debt problems overall.
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Cs complaint. She didn't feel shed seen enough to say 
that Cashfloat shouldnt have provided the first three loans to Mr C. But she felt that by 
loan 4, proportionate checks would most likely have shown that he was having problems 
managing his money as he already had other short term loans outstanding. So our 
adjudicator said Cashfloat ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr C wouldve been able to 
sustainably repay this loan  and any subsequent loans. 
And by loan 6 our adjudicator felt that Mr Cs overall pattern of borrowing suggested he had 
become persistently reliant on short-term loans.
Our adjudicator gave detailed directions setting out what she thought Cashfloat should do to 
put things right for Mr C.   
Cashfloat disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for a review.  So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.Cashfloat has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr C. It asked him to provide 
details of his income and to tell Cashfloat what he normally spent each month. And 
Cashfloat also carried out checks on Mr Cs credit file. 
Looking at the repayments that Mr C needed to make on the first three loans, the amounts 
wouldve seemed relatively affordable compared with the disposable income hed declared. 
Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Cs circumstances at the 
time, and his borrowing history with Cashfloat, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for 
Cashfloat to ask Mr C for the amount of information that would be needed to show the 
lending was unsustainable before agreeing these loans. So I agree with our adjudicator that 
I havent seen enough information to uphold this part of Mr Cs complaint. 
But I do think Cashfloat should have looked further into Mr Cs circumstances by the time he 
took out loan 4. Hed repaid all his previous loans early and each loan taken was bigger than 
the previous one. When hed repaid loan 3 he borrowed loan 4 the next day  taking out his 
biggest loan to date. Borrowing and repaying this number of loans early suggested he 
mightve been having trouble managing his finances in a well planned way. And the 
increasing loan amounts could signal that he was finding it hard to repay loans without 
borrowing again. 
Given the information that Cashfloat had recorded for Mr C, I think Cashfloat shouldve 
enquired further to obtain a proper understanding of his financial situation as the information 
it had gathered so far appeared at odds with his borrowing request  in particular, as 
Cashfloat says, bearing in mind Mr Cs monthly income. 
Cashfloat hasnt shown me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate 
check before agreeing to lend him loan 4. 
Mr C has provided his credit file and bank statements so Ive looked through these to see 
what Cashfloat was likely to have found out. Im not suggesting Cashfloat should have done 
this. But, in the absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable picture of Mr Cs 
finances at the time. And had Cashfloat looked in more depth at Mr Cs finances it would 
likely have seen that he was facing serious problems managing his money. I think it would 
have learnt that Mr C already had at least three loans outstanding with other short term 
lenders when he took out loan 4.  
This means I dont think it was reasonable for Cashfloat to think that it was likely Mr C would 
be able sustainably to repay loan 4  or any further lending. So it shouldnt have provided 
this loan or any of the loans that followed. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Cashfloats lending history with Mr C with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think by loan 6 Cashfloat should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. I say this because at this point Cashfloat ought to have 
realised:
Mr C was not managing to repay his loans sustainably. This was his sixth loan in 
around ten months. So I think Cashfloat shouldve realised that this record of 
borrowing indicated ongoing money problems.
 Cashfloat ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr C was borrowing 
further to cover the hole repaying each previous loan was leaving in his finances 
rather than using the loans for their intended purpose of helping him manage a 
temporary cash flow problem. 
 
Ive carefully considered everything Cashfloat has said, including its response to our 
adjudicators view. But for the reasons Ive explained, I think Cashfloat shouldve seen that 
by the time Mr C took out loan 6 there were clear signs that he had become reliant on this 
sort of expensive credit. So it shouldve realised then that it was unfair to continue lending to 
him. 
I think that Mr C lost out when Cashfloat continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. 
 
the number of loans which Mr C borrowed was likely to have negative implications on 
Mr Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans. 
 
So overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 - 6. 
Putting things right  what Cashfloat needs to do 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 4 - 6, not including anything it has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr C which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Pay Mr C the total of "A" plus "B".
 
D. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Cs credit file for loans 4 and 5. The overall 
pattern of Mr Cs borrowing from the point of loan 6 means any information recorded 
about this loan is adverse. So all entries about loan 6 should be removed from Mr Cs 
credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Cs complaint. Western Circle Ltd 
(trading as Cashfloat) should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman