DRN-2922204
The complaint
Mr P complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim he made 
on a mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P holds an insurance policy provided by Assurant which covers mobile phones. He made 
a claim for a lost mobile phone.
After speaking to Mr P and carrying out enquiries, Assurant declined cover for his claim. It 
said the information hed provided was inaccurate as hed said the phone hadnt been 
opened and no SIM card used in it, whereas their enquiries showed a SIM card had been 
used in the phone.
Mr P complained to Assurant, as he said that the information hed given had been 
misunderstood. When it rejected his complaint, he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought that Assurant hadnt acted fairly. He thought that the information 
relied on by Assurant was obtained on phone calls where the quality of the line was poor 
and Mr P was likely not to have fully heard or understood some of the questions being 
asked.
Assurant didnt accept this, and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ps complaint and that I thought 
Assurants actions were reasonable.
I said this because, in a telephone call, Assurants representative asked a number of 
questions of Mr P, and after this gave a summary of these, saying Its never come out of the 
box, never had a SIM in the phone and it still had the cellophane wrapper around it. Mr P 
agreed with this. 
Mr P had then been told that the claim wasnt covered, as Assurant had evidence which 
showed the phone had been activated and a SIM card used in the phone for two days in the 
month before Mr P had said the phone had been lost.
After Assurants representative said this, Mr P said hed been misunderstood and that he 
had put a SIM card in the phone, before removing it and placing the phone in a gift box 
which remained unopened until the loss was discovered.
I thought that Assurant were entitled to question why Mr P had agreed that the phone had 
still been wrapped in cellophane, but then said it had actually been gift wrapped. Although 
hed referenced the phone being intended as a gift, he hadnt made any previous reference 
to gift wrapping the phone. 
But I concluded that even if I accepted Mr P had misunderstood what was meant by 
reference to the phone being wrapped, this didnt explain why hed agreed that no SIM card 
had ever been in the phone when in fact hed put a SIM card in the phone and used it 
himself for a short period of time. I said I hadnt seen any reasonable explanation from Mr P 
on this point.
I did think that the poor quality phone line could potentially have caused confusion about the 
wrapping of the phone, but I didnt think this could explain why Mr P had confirmed no SIM 
card had ever been in the phone when in fact hed put one in himself and used the phone.
I concluded that it was reasonable for Assurant to say it couldnt be sure it had been given 
an accurate account of the loss by Mr P. I thought it could fairly say that Mr P hadnt 
demonstrated that the claim arose as a result of an insured peril and that it was covered 
under the policy terms and conditions.
The response to my provisional decision
Both Assurant and Mr P were sent my provisional decision. Mr P confirmed hed received 
the provisional decision. Neither party responded to us with any further information or 
evidence before the deadline given in the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Even though neither Assurant nor Mr P have responded to the provisional decision with 
anything further for me to consider, I have looked again at the evidence on file so that I can 
be satisfied with my previous findings.
I remain satisfied that Assurant can fairly decline Mr Ps claim, for the reasons Ive previously 
given. Even if I accept that Mr Ps understanding of the box and wrapping related to the gift 
box and wrapping hed placed the phone in after using it, nothing which has been provided 
to me gives any reason for why hed agree that there had never been a SIM card in the 
phone when he knew that not only had a SIM card been put in the phone, and the phone 
used, it was him who did both of those things. I think that Assurant cant be satisfied that Mr 
P gave accurate information when he made the claim. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman