DRN-2014835
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a 
claims management company.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy. The policy was taken out in June 1995 when 
Mr W applied for the card.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. His representative responded on his behalf to 
say, in summary, that:
The adjudicator has used statements such as I think and I might. What evidence 
is there to show that Barclaycard advised him to take the policy and that he was told 
it was optional?
Mr W provided more information about his savings and investments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W has questioned the conclusions reached by our adjudicator, particularly where he has 
based his conclusions on what he thinks might have happened. And I fully understand why 
Mr W would like evidence to show exactly what took place when the PPI was taken out. But, 
as this happened so long ago, its not surprising that the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, and contradictory. In cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint and I'll explain why.
I can't be sure exactly what was discussed at the time, so I've placed more reliance on the 
paperwork that was completed. The credit card application form included a separate section 
headed Payment protection plan. There were equally clear options to accept or decline the 
PPI. The Yes box has been ticked to show that Mr W wanted PPI. Its not clear whether the 
form was completed by him, or by the member of staff on his behalf. But Mr W signed the 
form, so he would have had the opportunity to read it through before signing to agree that 
the details were correct. So, overall, I find Barclaycard made Mr W aware that the PPI was 
optional and that he chose to take it.
Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to make sure it was suitable for him. 
Hes told us his sick pay, savings and existing policies would have covered his payments if 
he couldnt work. Hes not been entirely consistent in his recollection of what sick pay he 
would have received and what savings he had, but I dont find this surprising given we are 
asking him to recall his financial position 25 years ago. 
The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim. I need 
to decide whether Mr W had enough other means to meet his payments for the full 12 
months. If he did, this would have meant he probably didnt need the PPI. 
Mr W hasnt been able to provide evidence of what sick pay he would have received. He 
thinks he would have received full pay for six months and then half pay for a period after 
that. Ive considered this carefully, but I think it's unlikely that when he took out the PPI in 
1995, Mr W would have received the level of sick pay he recalls. I say this because of what I 
know from experience, and have seen of employee benefits across a wide variety of 
industries and sectors. And also because Mr W had an income security plan  I wouldnt 
have expected him to pay out for this if his sick pay was as generous as he recollects.
The income security plan would have paid £224 each month, escalating during payment, if 
he couldnt work due to sickness or a disability. This would have paid out after a deferral 
period of three months. This wasnt enough to match his monthly salary, although it would 
obviously have helped if he couldnt work due to sickness. But, in the event of a successful 
claim, the PPI would have paid out in addition to his sick pay and income security plan and 
for up to 12 months. So he would have had the peace of mind to know that his credit card 
payments were being met and any sick pay from his employer and any payment from his 
income security plan could have been used for other outgoings. So I think the PPI could 
have been a useful benefit for him, despite his existing arrangements. It also covered him if 
hed become unemployed.
Mr W has provided evidence of a bond, but this was a medium to long term investment and 
he probably wouldnt have wanted to use this to meet his repayments. Hes provided 
evidence of other investments  a life cover plan and a flexible savings plan, but, again, 
these seem to be longer term investments which would pay out in the event of his death, 
rather than readily realisable savings held in, for example, an instant access bank account. 
Overall, it doesnt look as if the PPI was unsuitable for Mr W based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I've found that Mr W chose to take out the policy and so appears to 
have wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr W 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I 
think he would still have taken out the policy, despite what he says now.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman