DRN-2669630
The complaint
Mrs K has complained about charges that were made by her insurers AmTrust Europe 
Limited (AmTrust) when she tried to cancel her Home Services insurance policy.
What happened
On 2 October 2019, Mrs K took out two policies on line through SSE Home Services Limited 
(SSE). One covered her heating, and the other covered her electrical wiring. Both were 
made up of two elements  a service contract, which related to the initial inspection and 
annual service part of the policy, and a breakdown contract. 
The breakdown contract, which applied to both policies, is stated to be a contract of 
insurance, the insurer being AmTrust. As it is the insurer, AmTrust is ultimately responsible 
for contract terms, pricing, and claims, although these are administered by SSE on its behalf.  
That is why this decision is directed towards AmTrust.
The service contract was stated not to be an insurance contract, and not regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
On 2 October, Mrs K was sent a letter of confirmation for each policy. Both of these stated 
the price of the respective policy and how this was split between the two contracts.
The Heating policy stated that the total cover price was £239.40. The Insurance contract 
element represented £166.20 of this, and the Service contract element was £73.20.
The Electrical Wiring policy stated that the total cover price was £60. The Insurance contract 
element represented £40 of this, and the Service contract element was £60.
The policy booklet (which was common to both policies) and an Insurance Product 
Information Document were enclosed with the letters of confirmation. The confirmation 
letters stated that if Mrs K wanted to cancel her cover for any reason, she just needed to 
contact SSE or return the cancellation form that was contained within the policy booklet. The 
letters contained a contact telephone number and email address for SSE. 
The Insurance Product Information Document provided a summary of the main coverage 
and exclusions, which included a section on how to cancel the contract. This included the 
following, under the heading How do I cancel the contract? (my emphasis underlined):
You may also cancel this cover at any time after the Cancellation period by letting us know 
either in writing, by telephone or by email. However, you will be responsible to pay us for any 
cover provided and any fees incurred.
To cancel, simply write to us at SSE Home Services Limited, Inveralmond House, 200 Dunkeld 
Road, Perth PH1 3AQ telling us you want to cancel. If its easier, you can phone us on 0345 
076 7646 or email us at home.services@sse.com.
Cancelling your Direct Debit without contacting us will not mean you have cancelled your 
cover with us. 
In March 2020, Mrs K decided she wanted to cancel both these policies. She tried to do this 
by phone but received a message that because of the COVID pandemic SSE was only 
accepting emergency calls. She says she couldnt find any other way of contacting SSE, so 
she cancelled her direct debit.
On 8 May 2020, when it hadnt been able to take her monthly payments on a number of 
occasions, SSE wrote to Mrs K cancelling her agreement and informing her that there was 
an outstanding balance of £139.65 that she had to pay under the Heating policy. This was 
made up of £42.70 for the service contract and £96.95 for the insurance contract. It waived 
the outstanding payment of £19.11 under the Electrical Wiring policy.
On 16 May Mrs K emailed SSE to complain. She said she hadnt received any 
documentation from SSE apart from confirmation of the direct debit. She therefore hadnt 
been aware of the cancellation terms and conditions and had tried to contact SSE by phone 
but hadnt been able to get through because it was only accepting emergency calls.
SSE didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint as it considered it had acted appropriately and in 
accordance with the terms of her agreement which specifically states that cancelling a direct 
debit doesnt cancel the contract and may lead to additional charges. Mrs K had had benefits 
from her policy as shed had the initial inspection completed on her boiler and shed also 
made a claim for an electrical problem.
SSE has said that during lock down resources were restricted which meant that call volumes 
were higher than normal, but it did provide other methods by which Mrs K couldve contacted 
it, either by writing or by email, and details could be found on its website and in the policy 
booklet provided at the time Mrs K took out her policy. A cancellation form is also provided at 
the back of the policy booklet.
The cancellation charges were due because Mrs K had cancelled her policies prior to the 
end of the contract term.
Mrs K says that she never received the policy booklet or the Insurance Product Information 
Document. She says she only received the direct debit confirmation. Shes unhappy about 
having to pay charges she didnt know about for a service she didnt use. 
 As she wasnt satisfied with the response to her complaint, she brought it to this service.
Our investigators view was that the terms and conditions of Mrs Ks policy were clear and 
that SSE had requested payment in line with these terms and conditions. She explained that 
the onus was on Mrs K to ensure she was aware of the terms and conditions of the policy 
shed bought, and if she hadnt received a copy from SSE, she shouldve asked for one.
Mrs K wasnt satisfied with our investigators view on her complaint and asked that it be 
considered by an ombudsman although she has now paid the sum due to SSE. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mrs Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, I have to address a jurisdictional issue. When looking into complaints for customers, 
this service has a limited jurisdiction. We can only look into complaints that involve 
regulated activities. Insurance contracts are regulated activities, but service contracts e.g. 
contracts for inspections and annual services, are not, unless they are very closely 
connected to a contract of insurance. 
Given that there is a clear separation between the service element and the breakdown 
insurance element in Mrs Ks policies, I dont consider that this service has jurisdiction in 
relation to the service element of her policy, and that I can therefore only consider that part 
of her complaint that relates to breakdown insurance. That is why this decision is directed to 
AmTrust as it is the insurer of the breakdown part of the policy. Ultimately, though, this only 
affects who my decision is addressed to, and not the substance of the decision.
Ive considered the documentation provided by SSE after a policy is taken out. I consider 
that this makes it very clear how a policy can be cancelled, and what the financial 
consequences are. The policy states as follows:
Your Termination Rights
16.9. You may terminate this Agreement at any time as long as you let us know by any 
of the methods stated in clause 16.1. If you terminate after the Cancellation Period, you 
will be subject to the termination charge in accordance with clause 16.12 of this 
Agreement.
It specifically says that cancelling a direct debit does not cancel a policy. SSE must be 
notified. 
Mrs K has raised two points to address this. She says she didnt receive either of the letters 
from SSE confirming shed taken out the policies which wouldve enclosed the policy 
document and the Insurance Product Information Document. She therefore didnt know what 
the cancellation terms and conditions were. She also says she tried to contact SSE by 
phone but couldnt get through.
My view is that although Mrs K says she was unaware of the policy terms and conditions, 
that doesnt mean that those terms and conditions dont apply. The onus is on a customer to 
be aware of the terms and conditions of the policy theyve just taken out so as to ensure that 
the policy is suitable for their needs. Thats why policies have a cooling off period. If for 
whatever reason a customer hasnt received the policy document, or hasnt been provided 
with access to it, they should contact the insurer or administrator and request a copy.
With regard to Mrs Ks communication with SSE, there were other methods by which Mrs K 
couldve contacted it other than by phone. For example, SSEs address was on the direct 
debit confirmation that Mrs K says she did receive. There was also information on its 
website.
My conclusion is therefore that AmTrust has not acted unfairly or unreasonably. Mrs K had 
attempted to cancel her policy by cancelling her direct debit which was specifically stated to 
be an ineffective way of cancelling a policy. She also hadnt contacted SSE as she was 
required to do. I dont consider that was an unreasonable requirement. And I also dont 
consider that AmTrust has acted unfairly or unreasonably in imposing charges for the early 
termination of a policy. In my view these were both customary and reasonable, and were clearly set out in the policy document. If theyd been unacceptable to Mrs K, the policy 
couldve been cancelled within the cooling off period.
Im aware Mrs K has now made payment to SSE. As I dont consider that AmTrust has acted 
unreasonably, Im not going to ask it to reimburse this payment. 
For the reasons Ive given above, I cant address the element of the termination payment 
that related to the service contracts.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mrs Ks complaint and Im not going to 
require AmTrust Europe Limited to make any reimbursement to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman