DRN-3180418
The complaint
Mr L says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LaH) lent to him irresponsibly. Mr L 
says that he was in a debt spiral when LaH lent to him. He thinks it should have seen this 
and not approved the lending. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about eight home collected loans LaH provided to Mr L between April 2010 
and December 2012. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in 
the table below. 
loan date taken amountweekly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 29/04/2010 £200 32 11/11/2010
2 08/07/2010 £200 32 23/12/2010
3 11/11/2010 £400 32 17/11/2011
4 23/12/2010 £375 41 15/12/2011
5 15/12/2011 £500 32 26/04/2012
6 26/04/2012 £700 32 13/12/2012
7 13/12/2012 £500 41 written off
8 13/12/2012 £500 41 written off
LaH has said that this Service shouldnt consider any of these loans as Mr L complained 
more than six years after they were started. So, it doesnt think this lending is within the 
jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our adjudicator firstly said that he thought Mr L had complained in time. This is because 
whilst he made his complaint later than six years from when he started the loans, there was 
no evidence to suggest that Mr L had complained later than three years of when he was 
aware, or ought to have been aware, he could complain. 
Our adjudicator went on to consider the merits of the complaint and he partially upheld it. He 
didnt think that LaH had irresponsibly lent for loans 1 to 4. But he said that by loan 5 the 
lending pattern itself looked to have become harmful, and so LaH shouldve stopped lending 
at this point. 
LaH disagreed with the adjudicators opinion about whether we could consider this 
complaint. It firstly said that we hadnt asked Mr L when he became aware he could 
complain.  
It went on to say that, Mr L was in arrears with his lending as early as 2013 and this 
continued throughout 2014 when he was issued with default notices. LaH also says it began 
legal action to recover some missed payments. 
So, he would have been aware that the loans were causing him problems more than three 
years before he made his complaint. And Mr L should have been aware that he could 
complain about them much earlier than he did. 
Mr L didnt disagree with what the adjudicator said. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
 
Why I can look into this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Mr L and LaH to 
decide whether we are able to look at the loans being complained about. Having done so, I 
have reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator  that I have the power to consider all 
the loans being complained about. Ill explain why. 
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint 
made more than six years after whats been complained about, or if later, more than three 
years after the complainant (in this case, Mr L) knew, or should really have known they had 
reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R and can be found online 
in the FCAs Handbook. 
Its clear loans 1 to 8 were complained about more than six years after they were taken. 
However, Ive not seen anything to persuade me Mr L was aware or ought to have been 
aware more than three years before he raised this complaint, that he had reason to 
complain. LaH has said that when Mr L experienced significant repayment problems this 
shouldve caused him to realise he had reason to complain. But I dont think this is enough in 
this particular case to demonstrate that.
I say this because whilst experiencing repayment problems would no doubt have led Mr L to 
realise there was a problem (in terms of the financial difficulty), Im not persuaded this would 
have (or ought to have), in itself, made him aware that these problems were caused by LaH 
doing something wrong when it agreed the loans.
And I havent seen anything else to persuade me that Mr L was or should have been aware 
earlier of cause to complain more than three years before they complained. I dont think I 
need to ask for Mr G for any further information about this. 
So, like our adjudicator, I think all of these loans were raised within the time limits I need to 
apply and that I do have the power to consider them. Ill now go on and consider whether or 
not I think all the loans complained about were lent responsibly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LaH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LaH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint in part, and Ive explained why below.
Mr L didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 4. Because of this, I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision 
about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr L had with LaH. And 
they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 5 to 8 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of LaHs lending 
history with Mr L, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which LaH should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so LaH should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ls case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
5. I say this because:
Mr L had taken out five loans within 19 months. And Mr L was making a commitment 
to make repayments for another 31 weeks. This is a long, and sustained time, to be 
using high cost credit. 
Mr Ls first loan was for £200 and loan 5 was for £500. This is a significant increase.  
And there doesnt seem to be a prospect of a change in his circumstances to allow 
this borrowing to decrease in the near future.   
Right from the start, Mr L was provided with a new loan within a short time of settling 
his previous one. Sometimes Mr L had more than one loan running at the same time. 
Loans 3 and 4 were repaid late and Mr L was already demonstrating significant 
repayment problems at this point. So at loan 5 LaH, ought to have realised Mr L was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably and that he was not likely borrowing to meet a shorter term need for 
more funds but to meet an ongoing, and increasing, need. 
I think Mr L had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to LaH over 
an extended period.
I think that Mr L lost out because LaH continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr L borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Ls ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 to 8 and LaH should put things right.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LaH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr L from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr L may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr L in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr L would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LaHs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
LaH shouldnt have given Mr L loans 5 to 8.
A) LaH should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr L towards interest, fees 
and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but 
not including anything it has already refunded.
B) LaH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr L which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr L originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LaH may  if LaH choose to  use the total of A plus B to repay any principal which 
LaH has written-off for loans 7 and 8.D) LaH should pay any remaining refund to Mr L. If there is no refund left and still a balance 
outstanding made up of written-off principal, it would not be fair for LaH to pursue this 
further.
E) The overall pattern of Mr Ls borrowing for loans 5 to 8 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mr Ls credit file. If LaH 
has sold any of the loans LaH should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LaH to deduct tax from this interest. LaH should give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax LaH has deducted if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ls complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman