DRN-4092252
The complaint
Mr L complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt provide a replacement car whilst his
was being repaired by its approved repairer, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr L damaged the dashboard in his car. He made a claim to UKI and it
arranged for the repairs to be carried out. Mr L then decided to have the repairs carried out
at his choice of garage, which was a main dealer. He was concerned that aspects of the
repairs would need to be completed by the main dealer, and he wasnt satisfied, from
discussion with UKIs repairer that it would complete the repair properly.
The handling of the claim and the provision of a replacement car is subject to a separate
complaint. UKI sent its final response to this on 8 April 2022. This complaint was referred to
our service separately. I wont be considering those points here. My remit here is to consider
the concerns raised after 8 April.
Mr L was informed by his garage in April 2022 that it no longer had a body shop to be able to
carry out the repairs. Because of this UKI agreed to authorise one of its network of repairers
to complete the work. This was a different repairer to the one Mr L initially had concerns
about. Mr L subsequently had his hire car was taken away when UKI identified hed
exceeded the 21-day limit for provision of a hire car.
Mr L didnt think this was fair, he says UKIs handling of his claim has been poor. He has
been without a car, which has caused difficulties getting to his place of work. He says he has
had to pay for taxis and had increased wear on his bike as a result of the lack of transport.
Mr L says UKI didnt provide him with a car for the full duration of the repairs even when he
had to return to one its network garages.
UKI says its terms limit the provision of a hire car to 21 days. Mr L had a car for 40 days in
total. It says although the repairer changed to one of its network garages, Mr L initially opted
to use his own choice of garage. In its complaint response UKI says a car will be provided
whilst a repair is being carried out within its network. However, both options cant be used
when there is a change in repairer from the customers own garage to one of its network
garages.
Mr L didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator
upheld his complaint. She says there was an issue with the main dealer receiving
authorisation for the repairs from UKI. It didnt have access to the system this was sent on.
She says this caused a delay in a component being ordered. However, this was rectified
when it was brought to UKIs attention.
Our investigator acknowledged UKIs concerns that if it extended the provision of a hire car
to Mr L in these circumstances, it would set a precedent that if a garage couldnt complete
repairs within 21 days, it would encourage customers to revert to its network solely for the
purpose of car hire. Our investigator didnt agree. She says Mr L returned to UKIs network
as the main dealer didnt have a body shop to carry out repairs and because it didnt receive
authorisation from UKI. She didnt think a strict application of the policy terms was fair in
these circumstances. And thought UKI should pay Mr L £150 compensation for taking away
the hire car.
Mr L says this doesnt compensate him for the costs, inconvenience, and stress he was
caused. Because of this he asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2023 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Ls complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Mr Ls policy terms with respect to the provision of a replacement car. The terms
say:
Guaranteed replacement car
Replacement car  Courtesy car or Hire car.
If your car is being repaired by our approved repairer, we will arrange for a replacement car
to be supplied to you whilst those repairs are carried out. If your car is being repaired by your
own repairer we will arrange for a hire car to be supplied to you for up to 21 days in a row.
I think the terms are clear regarding when a replacement car will be provided. And for how
long a car will be provided, dependent on where the repairs take place.
Ive thought about whether UKI acted fairly when authorising Mr Ls garage to complete the
repairs and if its claim handling caused a delay.
Ive listened to several call recordings between Mr L and UKI. Ive also reviewed the claim
records. I can see UKIs engineer authorised the repairs in mid-March 2022. UKIs agent
explains to Mr L during a call that his garage made a mistake when sending the initial
estimate. But it did send a revised copy later the same day. Mr L says he spoke to his
garage and was told the person dealing with the matter was off sick. This had caused a
delay in it progressing matters. In a different call UKIs agent says it had also spoken to Mr
Ls garage and it said the person dealing with the matter had left the business.
During a call with UKI Mr L explains that his garage cant access the system UKI used to
provide authorisation. He says this is a body shop system and as his garage no longer has a
body shop it cant process the authorisation.
Based on the evidence, the repairs were authorised in a reasonable timeframe once UKI
received the estimate for repairs from Mr Ls garage. The delay in progressing matters when
authorisation was provided, appears to lie with Mr Ls garage. Its because Mr Ls garage no
longer had a body shop that the repairs were subsequently authorised for completion at one
of UKIs network garages.
I can see that Mr Ls car was booked in with UKIs garage for repairs to be completed in mid-
March 2022. It was with the repairer for one day. The following day it was taken to the main
dealer for the instrument panel to be coded. Mr L then collected the car the same day.I can see that Mr L was provided with a hire vehicle, briefly, prior to UKIs garage carrying
out repairs. But the records show Mr L had already benefitted from car hire for a period of 40
days. This was in excess of the policy hire car limit of 21 days. So, the car was taken back. I
acknowledge Mr L was frustrated by this. However, he wasnt entitled to a hire car at this
juncture, as described in his policy terms.
From the records Mr Ls car was repaired and returned within two days. I note UKIs
comments that if a customer chooses to use their own garage, and receives the benefit of a
hire car, they cant then benefit from both options and have a replacement car whilst repairs
are later carried out by one of its network garages. I acknowledge what it says about this
setting a precedent.
Ive thought about UKIs comments. I think there may reasonably be circumstances where a
customer needs to have a network garage appointed due to problems with a non-network
garage. In Mr Ls case he wasnt told until some weeks after contacting the main dealer that
the lack of a body shop meant a network garage had to be used instead. I dont think this
was Mr Ls fault. It could reasonably be argued that UKI should then arrange for a
replacement car whilst repairs are carried out at its approved repairer.
That said the repairs were completed in two days. Mr L had already benefitted from UKI
paying for 19 days car hire over that provided by his policy. It was Mr Ls choice to use his
own garage. So, I dont think UKI should have to pay further replacement car costs.
Im sorry Mr L has been inconvenienced and frustrated due to the time taken to repair his
car. And due to not having a hire car for some of this period. But I dont think UKI acted
unfairly when referring to its policy terms and declining to provide a hire car for longer than it
did.
I said I intended to not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
UKI responded to say it had no further comments or information it wanted me to consider. 
Mr L responded in some detail. In summary he says the decision to change supplier was not 
one of choice but necessity. He says some of the work had to be completed by the main 
dealer and it was unclear this could be outsourced. Mr L says he was misled by UKI as it 
hadnt explained this to him. If it had, he says he wouldnt have changed garages to the main 
dealer for the repairs. 
Mr L says its not unreasonable to assert that UKI would safeguard a repairer, to ensure 
they were capable to carry out the repair and process a claim. He says there should be 
clear dialogue to certify work had initiated or if it could be. Mr L says it took 37 days to 
establish that the main dealer was unable to process the claim. He doesnt think its 
reasonable to solely blame the main dealer for this delay.
Mr L says he received a hire car on two separate occasions. He says as his car was 
untouched and unprocessed by any other repairer, he thinks that it should default to an 
approved repairer. On the second occasion he says he was told by UKIs repairer that he 
was entitled to a courtesy car. He queries why this car was taken away prior to the 
completion of the repairs. 
In his response Mr L says to report UKIs garage completed the repairs in two days is misleading. He says the repair process includes the engineer quote, part ordering etc. Mr L 
says he was without his car for 85 days, 37 of which shouldnt have occurred as the car 
shouldnt have been sent to the main dealer.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has a linked complaint that has been dealt with separately by our service. I note his 
points about the outsourced aspect of the repairs. But this has been dealt with under his 
other complaint reference, so I wont comment on that here. Other than to say I dont agree 
that UKI is responsible for Mr Ls choice to appoint the main dealer to carry out the repairs.
I note Mr Ls comments about UKI being responsible for safeguarding the repairer being 
appointed. But I dont agree. UKI offered a garage from its network of approved repairers to 
carry out the repairs. Mr L chose to use a garage of his choice. UKI accommodated his 
request, but it isnt responsible for validating that Mr Ls chosen garage could complete the 
work. 
In terms of the delay in Mr Ls garage dealing with the claim. I cant see that this was down 
to failings on UKIs part. As discussed in my provisional decision the delay was due to 
inaction on the part of the main dealers agents, and the fact it no-longer had a body shop. 
I acknowledge Mr L was provided with a courtesy car for a short period when UKIs repairer 
took over. It was subsequently identified that hed had a car for around forty days when his 
policy only allowed for a period of 21 days. The car was then taken back by UKI. I dont think 
it was unreasonable for UKI to take back the courtesy car once it realised its error. Mr L 
decided to appoint a garage of his own choice. In these circumstances his policy provides for 
a courtesy car for a period of 21 days. Mr L benefitted from a courtesy car for a longer period 
than he was entitled to. 
I note Mr Ls comment that my reference to UKI completing the repairs in two days was 
misleading. But this is an accurate description of the time his car was with UKI for the repairs 
to be completed. I acknowledge there is more to the sequence of events, but this doesnt 
impact on my decision about whether UKI treated him fairly. 
Having considered all of this Im not persuaded by Mr Ls further comments that I should 
change my decision. I dont think UKI treated him unfairly when it relied on its policy terms 
and declined to provide a hire car for longer than it did. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do 
anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold Mr Ls 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman