DRN-4090192
The complaint
Miss S complains about how UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Home Insurance 
(Direct Line) dealt with a claim under their home insurance policy for damage to her property 
caused by bad weather. 
Direct Line use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Direct 
Line includes these agents.
What happened
In December 2022, bad weather caused damage to the roof of Miss Ss property. She 
contacted Direct Line to tell them about the damage and lodge a claim. Direct Line arranged 
for a surveyor (C) to visit the property and assess the damage. 
The first appointment had to be rearranged, so the visit took place at the start of January 
2023. The surveyor took photos of the roof from the outside and from the inside through the 
inspection hatch to the loft. Miss S said C told her water from coming from the top of the roof 
and the concrete fixing the tiles had cracked and meant water was coming down the roof 
supporting beams. C told Miss S this was due to wear and tear, so wouldnt be covered 
under the policy.
Unhappy at the decline of her claim Miss S raised a complaint with Direct Line. They asked 
her to obtain two independent quotes to provide a second opinion about the damage to the 
roof. She obtained two quotes from builders for the roof to be replaced. Both builders told 
Miss S (verbally) they believed the damage to the roof was caused by heavy snow and wind, 
with the weight and density of the snow on the roof (with the rain that followed) damaging the 
full length of the roof. They also said the gable end of the roof had been damaged by winds. 
The damage to the roof allowed water to penetrate under the roof felt into the loft space.
Direct Line considered Miss Ss complaint, but they didnt uphold it. In their final response, 
they maintained their decision to decline the claim on the grounds due to the damage to the 
roof being caused by wear and tear (referring to the policy wording stating the policy not 
covering wear and tear). Direct Line also said that there were no storm conditions on the 
date of loss. They added that C concluded the damage was due to wear and tear and Miss S 
had agreed this because the roof hadnt been touched for 60 years.
Miss S then complained to this service. She disagreed with Direct Line about the decline of 
the claim due to wear and tear of the roof - they said it was in good condition prior to the 
storm with no water ingress. Shed had to pay £12,300 to have the roof replaced and the 
incident had caused her and her family significant stress. She wanted a written apology from 
Direct Line and to be fully compensated for the cost of replacing the roof. She wanted the 
wear and tear exclusion removed from the terms and conditions of the policy (so Direct Line 
couldnt use it to decline claims).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Direct Line had declined the claim in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions.  He didnt think the weather conditions at 
the time of the incident could be considered a storm. The maximum depth of snow the 
preceding week wouldnt constitute extreme weather conditions, nor were the wind speeds 
high enough to be a storm. Snow without high winds wouldnt be likely to damage a well-
maintained roof, rather it would be likely to highlight existing issues (and Miss S had said the 
roof hadnt been touched in 60 years. Pictures of the roof indicated the damage was due to 
wear and tear, which was usually an exclusion in most home insurance policies.
Miss S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint. She said she could accept wear and tear (being a reason to decline a claim) 
for contents insurance, but not for buildings insurance, as at no stage did Direct Line say 
when she took out her policy that her property wouldnt be covered for damage from 
whatever cause. And they were aware of the propertys age and condition when she took out 
her policy. She also said the report from [one of] the contractors who provided a quote noted 
there was cracked concrete along the ridge tiles and the edge of the roof (allowing water to 
enter). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Direct Line has acted fairly towards Miss S.
The main element of Miss Ss complaint is that Direct Line unfairly declined her claim, on the 
grounds that the bad weather at the time of the incident werent the main cause of the 
damage. Rather, it was due to pre-existing issues with the age and condition of the roof. 
In considering this issue, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-existing 
issue, there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response Direct Line say there werent storm conditions at 
the time of the incident. Theyve provided data from a weather service indicating a maximum 
of 3.1cm of snow on the day after the incident (the 17th) and 1.1cm on the date of the 
incident (the 16th). While the policy doesnt include a definition of storm, neither figure would 
constitute storm conditions according to the thresholds used by this service. Reports from 
the weather service used by this service give similar data to that from the (different) weather 
service used by Direct Line. 
Also, while there are local variations in weather (data from weather services is derived from 
individual weather stations in specific locations, looking at the photographs provided by Miss 
S (which are date stamped the 16th) the snow lying on the roof doesnt appear to be 
particularly deep. Which would be consistent with the snow figures mentioned above.
So, Ive concluded the evidence available doesnt indicate storm conditions at the time of the 
incident.
While Ive concluded the answer to the first question is no, for completeness I have also 
considered the second and third questions. On the second question, Ive considered the 
description of the damage provided by Miss S (and in Cs report). Damage to roofs is 
damage wed expect to see in storm conditions, leading to water entering a property. 
However, given the weather data mentioned above, it doesnt indicate the presence of high 
winds at the time of the incident. And the nature of the damage isnt what wed expect to see purely as the result of snowfall  particularly where the data doesnt indicate particularly 
heavy snowfall.  
The third question is where Direct Line declined the claim on the grounds the cause of the 
damage was wear and tear. In other words, their view is that the bad weather only 
highlighted existing issues with the roofs condition, which was the result of wear and tear. 
So, the bad weather wasnt the main or dominant cause of the damage (it was the pre-
existing condition of the roof).
Ive considered this issue carefully, including the points made by Miss S (and what she says 
were the verbal opinions of the two contractors from whom she obtained quotes to replace 
the roof) together with the views of C Ive also looked at the photographs of the property 
provided by Miss S, including the damaged roof and other areas. Taking all these things into 
account, Ive concluded Direct Line have acted fairly in declining Miss Ss claim. Ill set out 
why Ive come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there werent storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage isnt consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there wasnt an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
And where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as Direct Line 
have done by citing wear and tear) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. 
Looking at the available information and evidence, I think Direct Line have done so in the 
specific circumstances of this case. Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, Direct Line refer to the following policy wording, where theres the 
following exclusion under the heading This policy doesnt cover:
Just like most insurers we dont cover:
Wear and tear
Any damage caused gradually.
Similar wording appears in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which sets 
out the more important features of the policy.
In their final response, Direct Line say Miss S (when first notifying them about the damage to 
her roof) accepted there was wear and tear and the roof hadnt been touched for 60 years 
(information about the property in the Insurance Schedule indicates it was built in 1960). Ive 
not been provided with the call recording, so I cant independently confirm this was the case 
 though the same reference is included in Direct Lines complaint notes provided to this 
service. And Miss S hasnt challenged what Direct Line have said.
Ive also considered the points raised by Miss S, including what the contractor she engaged 
to provide a quote said about cracked concrete along the ridge tiles and the edge of the roof 
(allowing water to enter). C also mentioned cracked concrete, but concluded it was due to 
wear and tear. But considering what Ive concluded about the absence of storm conditions at 
the time of the incident and it being unlikely that snow on its own would cause the damage to 
the roof, Ive concluded that the damage was caused by wear and tear. 
Taking these points into account, then Ive concluded Direct Line have done enough (given 
the onus being on them to show the exclusion applies) to have applied the exclusion for wear and tear fairly and reasonably to decline the claim for damage to the roof, in the 
specific circumstances of this case.
While Ive reached these conclusions, I have considered the other points raised by Miss S. 
The first point is that she could accept wear and tear for contents insurance, but not for 
buildings insurance, as at no stage did Direct Line say when she took out her policy that her 
property wouldnt be covered for damage from whatever cause. And they were aware of the 
propertys age and condition when she took out her policy.
Ive considered this point, but I dont agree. The exclusion for wear and tear and damage 
caused gradually was clearly set out in the policy document Miss S would have been 
provided with. And the IPID  which provides a summary of the more important policy 
features  also makes the same exclusion clear. So, I dont accept Miss S wouldnt 
reasonably have been aware of this exclusion (which is common to most home insurance 
policies, not just policies issued by Direct Line). 
I accept Direct Line would have been aware of the propertys age and condition when the 
policy was taken out, as this would have been information provided by Miss S. But she 
asked to confirm the property was in good condition (which she did). Insurers rely on 
policyholders providing accurate and complete information when policies are taken out. But 
that doesnt mean they wont assess any subsequent claims under the policy terms and 
conditions, including whether a claim meets those terms and conditions or (as in this case) a 
policy exclusion would apply. So, this doesnt change my conclusion Direct Line acted fairly 
and reasonably in applying the exclusion for wear and tear to decline Miss Ss claim.
The second point, the views of her contractor, has been considered above. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman