DRN-2568057
The complaint
Mr B complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
 Mr B said that he was already in debt and applied for these loans to pay off the other debts.
Using the information I have from Lending Stream here is a brief table of the approved loans.
Loan Approved Amount Repayment 
(rounded)repaid
1 26 August 2019 £600* £203 x 5
£185 x 125 October 2019 
(early)
2 4 November 2019 £600 £196 x 6 o/s
3 17 November 2019 £530* £176 x 6 o/s
*Mr B applied for £1,000 for Loan 1 and for Loan 3 he asked for £1,500.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Lending Stream had not
done anything wrong and so he did not think that the complaint should be upheld. Mr B did
not agree and he said that his credit file and bank statements would have demonstrated that
he was already paying back a lot of debt from other providers. Mr B said that his income was
£1,460 after tax and he had to spend more than this each month on repaying his debts.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.
Since the complaint was passed to me I asked Mr B for more information and he was able to
send me some but not all I asked for. Mr B is in a debt management plan (DMP).
I wrote to Lending Stream asking it to explain some discrepancies in its figures but I have 
heard nothing from it. I explain this in my provisional decision and those provisional findings 
are set out in the next section. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly.
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These
factors include: where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are
particularly high; and/or where the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a
customer has been given loans need to be looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But I do not think that this applies to
Mr Bs circumstances as he took three loans within a relatively short period of time.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans 
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence
calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
My provisional findings in my provisional decision dated 21 January 2021
In February 2020 Lending Stream sent to Mr B its final response letter (FRL) in which it did not uphold 
his complaint. I have set out here some additional details taken from a table in that FRL which it used 
to justify its decision to Mr B. 
Loan Declared 
incomeDeclared 
expenditureDeclared credit 
specific costsAvailable to Mr B 
to repay his loanaffordable
1 £2,500 £500 £100 £1,900 Y
2 £2,500 £325 £125 £2,050 Y
3 £2,500 £275 £125 £2,100 Y
Lending Streams table in its FRL demonstrated that it used the figures as declared by Mr B when he 
applied. It explained that after carrying out independent checks for both categories of expenditure, it 
made no adjustments to those figures. So, it calculated that Mr B could afford the instalments.
Lending Stream also said that If required, we also confirmed the monthly income you told us about 
with an independent company to make sure it was right.
Lending Stream has sent me its summary of the credit search results which show entries NA for a 
series of categories including score, number of default accounts, number of active accounts and value 
of active accounts. This suggests to me that it received no information from the credit reference 
agency at all in relation to each of the three applications.
However, Lending Stream has also sent me these details. I have set out here an extract of the full 
table sent to me. I have highlighted the disposable income column.
Loan Monthly 
IncomeMonthly 
expenditureDisposable 
incomeRequested 
Loan Borrowed 
Loan Amount Amount
1 2500 600 1704 1000 600
2 2500 450 762 600 600
3 2500 400 1036 1500 530
Disposable income usually is a term which means that the applicants expenditure has been 
deducted from his/her income, leaving the sum available to the applicant to repay the loan applied for. 
And that is what I think Lending Stream meant in this table sent to us for Mr Bs complaint.
These figures in relation to Mr Bs three loans do not correlate with the table Lending Stream put into 
the FRL sent to Mr B. That table in the FRL has a column which Lending Stream labelled as How 
much you had available to pay your loan. That seems to mean the same as disposable income and 
yet the figures differ from the figures in the table, part of which I have set out above.
The figures for Loans 2 and 3 are very different. For Loan 2 Lending Streams FRL said that the 
money Mr B had left to repay the loan after deducting his normal and credit expenses was £2,050, 
whereas in the table sent to us to investigate the complaint it was £762. And for Loan 3 its FRL said 
that the money Mr B had to repay the loan after deducting his normal and credit expenses was 
£2,100, whereas in the table sent to us to investigate the complaint it was £1,036. The figures for 
Loan 1 (£1,900 and £1,704) are different but there is not as wide a difference.
So, I think that for Loans 2 and 3 Lending Stream did have additional facts about Mr Bs other debts 
and made radical alterations to the figures it used to calculate affordability. It was this I wrote to 
Lending Stream about to afford it an opportunity to explain the discrepancies but I have received no 
explanations. So, I am proceeding on the information I have.
And Mr B has said to us that his income was £1,460 a month not £2,500 a month which is the figure 
he gave to Lending Stream when he applied for the loans. And having reviewed Mr Bs bank 
statements I can see that his monthly net salary was about £1,460.
Using all the details I have now, then I think that for Loan 1, as Mr B was a new customer to Lending 
Stream, and applying our usual approach, then it was entitled to rely on figures given to it by Mr B. 
So, on those figures then I think that its reasonable for it to have lent to Mr B.
However  in relation to Loans 2 and 3, the large differences in the disposable income figures on the 
two sets of tables/information I have before me, leads me to provisionally decide that I cannot rely on 
the information given to me by Lending Stream. Alternatively, that there is information missing. 
Considering that provisional finding then I have chosen to use the information Mr B has sent to me to 
see what his financial situation was.
Using Mr Bs bank statements for the period leading up to Loan 2, from 1 October 2019, then I can 
see that he had regular expenditure, plus a bank loan, two other loans and at least three other sets of 
repayments to two other well-known high-cost short term lenders. And Mr B received credit into his 
account for another loan for £200 on 16 October 2019 from a different high cost short term lender 
which suggests he had just taken another loan with that other company.
Lending Streams use of the income of £2,500 appears to be incorrect as well. Mr Bs actual income 
was £1,460 which was a £1,000 less than he had declared. And so, on the information I have now, 
I am planning to uphold Mr Bs complaint in relation to Loan 2.
For Loan 3, Mr B applied for a £1,500 having just taken a £600 loan a few days earlier. So, I think that 
for Lending Stream to see that Mr B needed that much additional money in such a short space of time 
and when Loan 2 remained outstanding, then I think that better checks ought to have been carried 
out.
As I have explained earlier in this provisional decision, I am not able to rely on Lending Streams 
figures as they are so different to each other and so I have reviewed the information I have from Mr B.And Mr Bs situation when he applied for Loan 3 was much the same as for Loan 2 as his application 
for it was a few days later. And he had the outstanding Loan 2 liability each month as well. I am 
planning to uphold Mr Bs complaint for Loan 3.
Mr B ceased making repayments for Loan 3 around 17 December 2019 and paid a little in June 2020. 
And for Loan 2 Mr B seems to have ceased paying for it around the end of January 2020. Mr B is in a 
DMP now and so the fact that I am making a provisional decision that Mr B was not able to afford 
Loans 2 and 3 seems to have been borne out.
What have the parties said or sent to me since that provisional decision.
Lending Stream acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision and said it waited to hear 
from us. Mr B seems to have accepted the provisional findings as he asked how long it 
would take for Lending Stream to put things right. Neither party sent me any further evidence 
or explanations.
And in these circumstances my final decision findings are the same as my provisional 
findings and for those same reasons I uphold Mr Bs complaint for Loans 2 and 3. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Lending Stream should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about
what might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr B from loan 2, as Im satisfied it
ought to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that
question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr B in a
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Lending Streams liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Lending Stream ought to do as follows:
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 2 and 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove adverse payment records about Loans 2 and 3 from Mr Bs credit file.
If Mr B still owes Lending Stream any of the principal balance he borrowed  as I understandhe does - instead of the above Lending Stream should remove all the interest and charges
applied to the outstanding balance for loans 2 and 3. Lending Stream should then re-work
the account as if all payments made by Mr B (and made through any third party) went to
towards the principal. But importantly, Lending Stream needs to make sure that Mr B doesnt
repay more than the principal amount borrowed.
If after doing this Mr B hasnt repaid the principal he borrowed Lending Stream can deduct
this from the remainder of the compensation. If, Mr B has already paid enough to repay the
principal then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple* interest from the
date of payment to the date of settlement.
And if Lending Stream no longer owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction due to the
amount owed, then it should buy it back. If it doesnt then it isnt entitled to make any
deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Mr B.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. It must
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part, and I direct that Gain Credit LLC, 
trading as Lending Stream, does as I have directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman