DRN-3675509
The complaint
Mr J complains that following the breakdown of his boiler his insurer, Astrenska Insurance
Limited refused to pay the £250 towards a replacement that he is entitled to. Other parties
have acted on Astrenskas behalf, but I have just referred to Astrenska here.
What happened
I sent the parties a provisional decision in August 2022, in which I set out the following 
background information to the complaint and my provisional findings. 
Mr J is landlord of a let property and holds a home emergency policy with Astrenska. He had
a boiler installed but after three years it had many issues with call outs for repairs. Eventually
he got a gas engineer to look at it and was told it wasnt safe and needed to be replaced.
Mr J contacted Astrenska and it sent an engineer to inspect the boiler, but the engineer
couldnt gain access. Later engineers from another contractor declined to attend on behalf of
Astrenska as they didnt want to be held responsible for missing parts.
Mr J replaced the boiler at his own expense and requested Astrenska make the contribution
in his policy of £250 towards the replacement. Mr J said Astrenska initially agreed but then
declined without explanation or reviewing his own gas engineers report.
Astrenska responded to Mr Js complaint saying its engineers agreed the boiler was in a
potentially dangerous state, but not beyond economic repair. It said the work had recently
been carried out by Mr Js own engineer who had replaced parts and deemed the boiler to
be beyond economic repair and therefore the replacement boiler contribution was not valid.
Mr J said Astrenskas engineer hadnt inspected the boiler or spoken to his engineer, so he
didnt know how they reached their view about his boiler. He said he paid an engineer
because of Astrenskas delay and it had refunded him this payment. His engineer had
replaced a diverter valve.
Mr J was dissatisfied with Astrenskas response and referred his complaint to us. He said if
Astrenska hadnt agreed to contribute towards a new boiler he wouldnt have had it replaced.
Our investigator initially recommended the complaint be upheld. She said the policy provides
a contribution to a new boiler if the old boiler is deemed beyond economic repair. Although
this hadnt been declared by the insurers engineer, she said Astrenskas agent had assured
Mr J he would receive the contribution and so it was fair that this is now paid to him.
Astrenska disagreed with the investigator, saying it didnt recognise the call recording on
which the investigator had relied in reaching her view. The investigator then said the phone
recording didnt identify the callers or the claim and so the claim didnt have to be paid.
Mr J disagreed with the investigator and gave the name of the agent he spoke to, the time of
the call and his number. He said he couldnt believe his insurer were disputing the
authenticity of the call. Mr J requested an ombudsman review his complaint.
My provisional findings
Mr Js policy with Astrenska states:
In the event your domestic boiler is declared beyond economic repair we will make a
contribution of £250 towards replacing it Beyond Economic Repair is defined in the 
following way: In the opinion of our approved engineer the cost of repair is more than the 
cost of replacement.
Approved Engineer or Engineer is defined in the following way: A qualified person
approved and instructed by the helpline to undertake emergency work.
Astrenska declined to pay the policy contribution as Mr Js boiler hadnt been assessed as 
beyond economic repair by its engineer and parts and work had been carried out by Mr Js 
engineer. Mr J said hed been promised he would receive the contribution and Astrenska 
should make good on this promise. He provided his recording of the call. Astrenska says it 
has no record of this and doesnt recognise the call.
I listened to Mr Js calls with the claims handler including the disputed call referred to by Mr 
J and the investigator. I realise the call isnt complete in that the introduction is missing but I 
thought as evidence of a conversation between the parties it was scarcely to be doubted.
During the call the agent said it didnt have to review the boiler as it was deemed beyond 
economic repair and the insurer would pay towards the new boiler. The agent then noted Mr 
Js account details further reinforcing the decision that he would receive the payment.
I could see why Mr J put his faith in this call and disposed of his old boiler. By changing its 
decision, Astrenska prejudiced Mr Js position in that he couldnt evidence his boilers poor 
condition. I dont think Mr J would have been tempted to replace his boiler if this wasnt 
necessary and Astrenskas engineer agreed the boiler was in a potentially dangerous state.
And so although I could see that Astrenskas engineer had difficulty inspecting Mr Js boiler I 
agreed with the investigators initial findings that Astrenska raised and then disappointing Mr 
Js expectations and should pay the policy contribution towards his new boiler. 
I thought Astrenska should have been able to identify its agent from the call recording and it 
had prolonged Mr Js claim. I thought he had suffered inconvenience and Astrenska should 
pay him the boiler contribution of £250 as well as £50 compensation for his inconvenience.
My provisional decision and the parties responses
I provisionally decided to uphold the complaint and require Astrenska to pay Mr J the £250 
contribution set out within his policy towards his new boiler. And to require Astrenska to pay 
Mr J £50 compensation for his inconvenience during this prolonged claim.
Mr J had no further comment to make. Astrenska disagreed with my provisional decision.
Astrenska questioned the validity of the call, saying theres no record of it and it couldnt be 
identified. It said even if it had provided incorrect information, its not fair to have to cover a 
claim in error when its not covered by the policy. It said my provisional decision was just an 
opinion whereas the evidence it holds is factual. 
 
Astrenska said it understood our service only considers the facts of the case and not 
opinions of the customer, the insurer or our own and said, This means you are also concluded [sic] it happened at a certain stage within the claim with no basis. It said I had 
ignored the evidence and facts about the claim not being covered and I should rely on the 
facts available from each party.
Astrenska said that Mr J prejudiced his own position in not allowing it to validate the claim, 
leaving him without cover. It said we only have Mr Js word that his own contractor, who is 
unidentified, said the boiler was not economical to repair.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Astrenska seems to suggest that as it has no evidence of the disputed call, it didnt take 
place and the complaint cant be upheld. I dont share its confidence about this.
 
Astrenska says our service should rely solely upon the facts and not opinions, but doesnt 
suggest what I should do when these are disputed. In this situation an ombudsman must 
decide what they think is the most likely to have happened. We do this based on the balance 
of probabilities, i.e. what we think is more likely than not to have taken place. By its nature, 
this process involves forming an opinion and this is what Ive done to reach an outcome to 
Mr Js complaint. 
The act of parliament that created the Financial Ombudsman Service makes provision for 
this approach at section 228(2) where it states; A complaint is to be determined by 
reference to what is, in the opinion of the ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. So we can see that the law makes explicit provision for decisions 
to be reached based on an ombudsmans opinion. 
Having listened to the call recording again, I think the call took place and Mr J was assured 
that the contribution outlined in the policy would be made by Astrenska. I appreciate that 
Astrenska thinks Mr J prejudiced his position by disposing of his boiler and its engineer 
hadnt said it was beyond economic repair. But I think that was understandable in the 
circumstances as hes been assured it didnt need to be inspected and his account details 
for payment were noted. 
Astrenska said that Mr J prejudiced his own boiler by disposing of it before its engineer could 
inspect it. However, in my view Astrenska prejudiced Mr Js position by suggesting it didnt 
need to inspect it. As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think Mr J would have been 
minded to replace his boiler if this wasnt necessary and Astrenskas engineer agreed the 
boiler was in a potentially dangerous state. 
And so, although I could see that Astrenskas engineer had difficulty inspecting Mr Js boiler I 
agreed with the investigators initial findings that Astrenska raised and then disappointed Mr 
Js expectations and should pay the policy contribution towards his new boiler. I think Mr J 
acted reasonably in the circumstances by disposing of his boiler. 
Putting things right
Having reconsidered what happened with Mr Js claim I remain of the view that he had 
reasons to believe his claim would be paid and acted accordingly and consequently I think it 
was unfair of Astrenska not to do so. And I think the fairest way to put this right will be for 
Astrenska to make the contribution to Mr Js new boiler set out in the policy. My final decision
For the reasons I have given in my provisional decision and here, it is my final decision that 
the complaint is upheld. I require Astrenska Insurance Limited to pay Mr J the policy 
contribution of £250 towards a replacement boiler and I require it to pay him £50 
compensation for the inconvenience he has been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman