DRN-2273097
The complaint
Mrs P says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs P bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a credit card in the branch. 
The PPI covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Ps credit card application had a section for optional extra products, one of which was 
PPI. There was a box that could be filled in if she wanted it, or which could be left blank if 
she didnt want it. The box was filled in, and Mrs P signed the agreement to confirm her 
choices. Ive not seen any wider problems with Halifaxs sales process from the time, nor 
any evidence which shows that they misled Mrs P here or put her under any unfair pressure. 
So overall, I think its most likely that Halifax made Mrs P aware she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs P, which means they had to check it was right for her. 
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mrs P was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions 
or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits and offered her more 
comprehensive cover, especially for when her benefits reduced to just a fraction of her 
normal pay. It also meant she could effectively protect any savings and use them for other 
things. While I understand Mrs Ps family may have been happy to help, there was always 
the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this card was Mrs Ps sole 
responsibility, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable if Halifax had recommended she rely 
on other individuals to pay it. So it looks like the PPI could have been useful for Mrs P in 
case shed needed to claim.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mrs P about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs P chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt look like Mrs P was affected by any of the 
policys main exclusions or limitations, and it could have been useful for her in case 
something went wrong. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to 
have put her off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman