DRN-3334981
The complaint
Ms S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) refused to allow her to 
withdraw cash from her account.    
What happened
Ms S attempted to withdraw £6,000 in cash from her account while in a NatWest branch. 
When asked what it was for, she was not happy about answering personal questions about 
how she wanted to use her money. When pushed for an answer, she said it was a gift for a 
friend, but didnt want to go into much more detail. The cashier explained that they were 
unwilling to allow Ms S to withdraw the large amount of cash as they werent satisfied Ms S 
was not the possible victim of a scam. 
Ms S telephoned NatWest shortly after the branch visit and made a request to collect £2,000 
in cash, which was processed. When she went into the branch to try and collect this, she 
was advised the branch staff were unwilling to process the withdrawal, due to the earlier 
interaction that day. Ms S then asked to close her account and have her funds withdrawn as 
cash instead. The branch staff explained this would still be a request for a cash withdrawal, 
which they had explained they would not process for Ms S without further information about 
what the payment was for. Ms S was permitted to withdraw just under £1,000 in cash on that 
day.
Ms S telephoned NatWest and made a request to withdraw £5,700 in branch the following 
day. The call handler took Ms S through some scam and fraud questions over the phone and 
when questioned what the payment was for, Ms S confirmed it was a gift. When Ms S visited 
the branch the following day, she was asked questions around the cash withdrawal and what 
it was for. When Ms S said it was for a friend to have building work completed, she was 
asked to provide evidence such as an invoice. Ms S was unhappy with this and left the 
branch without withdrawing any cash. On the same visit, Ms S identified herself in the 
branch in order to release frozen online payment that was being made to an account in her 
name with a third-party bank. Ms S says she was made to show the banking app with the 
third-party bank to the cashier and feels this was a violation of her privacy. 
Ms S made another visit to the same branch a few days later. She made another request to 
withdraw £4,000 in cash, and recorded her interaction with the branch staff on her mobile 
phone. The branch staff refused to process the cash withdrawal as Ms S did not provide 
additional information about the withdrawals to what had already been provided on previous 
visits. Ms S wanted more of an explanation about why NatWest had to ask questions around 
what the payment was for. Eventually, Ms S was asked to leave otherwise the branch staff 
would call the police, which she did. 
Ms S eventually closed her accounts with NatWest and transferred her balance to another 
account in her name with a third-party bank.  She raised a formal complaint with NatWest 
about the fact they denied her requests to withdraw cash from her account. 
NatWest issued a final response letter in which it explained the branch staff had followed the 
correct procedure and had not made an error in refusing Ms S cash withdrawal requests. 
They said this was in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys principles. 
Ms S referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator assessed the complaint and felt 
NatWest acted reasonably when it asked Ms S questions about what the cash was for. And 
that it acted fairly when refusing to carry out Ms S instruction when she did not give 
sufficient information about the withdrawal and what it was for. They recognised that Ms S 
hadnt been given clear information from staff about what guidance or regulations allowed 
banks to ask about the purpose of a payment or withdrawal. And that NatWest had 
apologised for this. Because of this, the investigator did not uphold Ms S complaint. 
Ms S did not agree with the outcome. She felt she had given enough information to the bank 
and answered their scam questions in later phone calls. So she didnt think she had 
breached the terms and conditions of the account by not providing a reason for the 
withdrawal. She was unhappy she had not received callbacks as requested and that some 
phone calls with NatWest had become disconnected. She also felt she had been lied to in 
branch when she was told a member of staff was a manager, but they turned out not to be. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think NatWest has acted fairly, and reasonably in the circumstances when 
it declined Ms S cash withdrawal requests. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Ms S has raised a number of complaint points during her case journey. Ill focus on what I 
think are the important points in order to reach a final decision. Ive carefully considered all 
the points she has made, even if I dont specifically address them.
My understanding of the crux of Ms S complaint is that she was declined her request for a 
cash withdrawal from her account on more than one occasion. What I therefore need to 
consider, is whether NatWest is able to refuse to pay Ms S in cash. 
Ms S has specifically asked what the legal position is in these circumstances. In simple 
terms, where money is held on deposit, the relationship between a customer and their bank 
is primarily that of debtor and creditor.
When Ms S makes an order to make a payment, such as a cash withdrawal, NatWest acts 
as Ms S agent in carrying out that instruction. NatWest has a duty to exercise reasonable 
skill and care in carrying out Ms S instructions. As a result, NatWest is under a duty to 
refrain from making a payment if it has reasonable grounds for believing, for example, that 
the instruction relates to fraud or any other criminal act. Given NatWests obligations to 
protect its customers from potential fraud or scams, it can be expected to make reasonable 
enquiries including  but not limited to  the circumstances surrounding the payment 
instruction, in this case a large cash withdrawal. 
On the first visit to the branch, Ms S was requesting to withdraw £6,000 in cash, which is a 
relatively unusual request. So, keeping in mind NatWests duties as outlined above, I would 
expect it, as a matter of good practice, to take steps to ensure Ms S had not been tricked or 
coerced into making the cash withdrawal. And I would expect it to ask about the reason for 
the withdrawal and query why a safer method of payment could not be used.On that first visit, Ms S was initially unwilling to answer any questions about what the 
payment was for. And I can understand that this would raise concern for the branch staff at 
NatWest. Ms S eventually confirmed this was a gift, and I think it was reasonable for the 
NatWest staff to be wary of this answer, as £6,000 is a relatively large amount of cash to gift 
and could be given via a safer method. The branch staff who were working that day have 
said they did offer to facilitate a transfer, as that way they could check that the name of the 
payee on the account matched the individual that Ms S was sending the money to. But Ms S 
did not want to do a transfer and wanted to withdraw the funds as cash.
I think that it was reasonable for NatWest to offer to facilitate a transfer and its what I would 
have expected it to do in the circumstances. Looking at the terms and conditions of the 
account, they say that Natwest is able to suspend, restrict or stop access to your account or 
to certain services. If they believe it is appropriate in order to protect your account. And I 
think this is what they have done in the circumstances. They restricted Ms S access to her 
cash withdrawal facility as they had a genuine concern about the safety of her account. The 
terms and conditions of the account do not set out a withdrawal limit in branch and theyve 
explained this would be down to the individual judgement of the staff in branch. And I think 
this is why Ms S was able to withdraw just under £1,000 on the first day she visited the 
branch, but no more than that. Ultimately, I think NatWest has acted fairly in the 
circumstances and have done so with the best interest of Ms S in mind.
Ms S then chose to visit the branch a number of times over the following few days to make 
similar requests and telephoned NatWest to arrange for cash withdrawals in the branch. And 
each time she didnt give much more information about the what the payment was for. I note 
that on one occasion she said it was for a friend to have building work carried out on her 
home. When asked for more information about the building work, Ms S was unwilling to 
provide any evidence to show what the work was for. Considering that Ms S had previously 
been unwilling to provide answers and had then said the funds were a gift, I can understand 
that NatWest would require further evidence to show the payment was intended for building 
work. Ultimately, Ms S chose to try and repeat the same request after shed already been 
told it wasnt possible, and I dont think NatWest has made an error in continuing to deny her 
requests for a withdrawal. 
Ms S has expressed frustration that various members of staff could not explain the legal 
precedent or the exact part of the terms and conditions that meant she had to answer 
questions about why she wanted to withdraw large sums of cash. I appreciate this must have 
been frustrating for Ms S. But I dont think this is something I would expect every member of 
staff at NatWest to know, as a number of principles and guidelines have formed NatWests 
internal policy. And ultimately, I think its unlikely Ms S knowing this information would have 
helped the situation, as it would not have changed what was required for Ms S to withdraw 
the £6,000 in cash. 
Ms S has raised a number of additional points around the customer service she received 
while dealing with the cash withdrawal requests. Firstly, she is unhappy that NatWest branch 
staff threatened to call the police. Both Ms S and NatWest are in agreement that this 
happened. This was during a visit where Ms S was recording the branch staff and it appears 
she did not gain their consent for doing so. I can understand how this could be perceived as 
intimidating by the branch staff. Considering this was Ms Ss fourth visit to the branch where 
she was making a similar withdrawal request despite being denied previously, and according 
to the branch staff she had been asked to leave already but had not done so, I think it was a 
reasonable next step for the branch staff to warn Ms S that they would involve the police if 
she didnt leave the premises. And I dont think they have made an error in the 
circumstances. 
Ms S has said that she attempted to make an online transfer to an account in her own name. This was flagged as potentially fraudulent and so she visited a branch to provide 
identification and get the transfer unblocked. Ms S has said she was asked to show her bank 
card for the third-party account, as well as the application for the account on her phone 
showing the account details and the incomings and outgoings of the account to unblock the 
transfer. She felt this was an infringement of her privacy. 
The customer contact notes that NatWest has provided show that the member of staff did 
ask to see Ms S banking application so they could ensure the account details matched the 
ones that had been input for the online transfer. Depending on what information was on     
Ms S debit card for the third-party bank, I think it was reasonable for the NatWest staff to 
ensure the account number and sort code matched what had been entered for the online 
transfer and that the account was in Ms S name. Ms S has said she was also asked to show 
the account incomings and outgoings, and it isnt clear why this would be necessary. Though 
I note this is not mentioned in the contact notes left by the cashier. On balance, I think its 
more likely the cashier asked to verify the account details only, which was information Ms S 
had already entered when making the transfer online, so was information the cashier was 
already privy to. And I think this was reasonable in the circumstances, so I dont think 
NatWest has made an error. 
Ms S has said she was told a member of staff was the manager, and later found out this was 
incorrect. As a result, she felt she was lied to. NatWest has said that when Ms S asked to 
see a manager, the most senior member of staff working that day attended to her as no 
managers were available at that time. I dont think it was unreasonable for the most senior 
member of staff to deal with Ms Ss requests in place of a manager when one was not 
available. And I dont think they needed to make it clearer to Ms S what job title each staff 
held in order to help her with her enquiries. 
In summary, I think NatWest was correct to ask Ms S questions about what the large cash 
withdrawals were for and I think it was reasonable they had cause for concern when Ms S 
was unwilling to provide answers, or could not provide evidence to support her answers.  I 
therefore dont think NatWest has made an error in declining Ms S requests for cash 
withdrawals.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Ms S complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman