DRN-3692942
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited (LASL) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable 
for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr C is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr C.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Cs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. 
On 9 June 2017, the BSPS provided Mr C with a summary of the transfer value of his 
scheme benefits. These benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£697,371.11.
Mr C approach LASL to discuss his BSPS pension. I understand the first meeting between 
the parties took place on 15 June 2017.
LASL completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Cs circumstances and objectives. 
Mr C was 52, living with his partner but not married and had one financially dependent child. 
He was employed, earning just over £54,000 per year and had approximately £26,000 in 
savings. Mr C owned his own home with an outstanding mortgage of approximately £45,000. 
He and his partner also owned two rental properties, with total outstanding mortgages of 
around £90,000. LASL didnt record how long these mortgages had to run but it said Mr C 
was making overpayments with the intention of clearing them by the time he retired. Mr C 
and his partner were receiving net rental income from these properties of £600 per month. 
They intended to retain these properties into retirement. And Mr Cs total income at that time 
was recorded as exceeding his outgoings by over £850 per month.
In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr C was also a member of his employers new 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme, to which he and his employer were making 
combined contributions equivalent to 15% of his salary.
LASL recorded that Mr C was looking to retire at age 57 and expected to need an income of 
approximately £18,000 per year in retirement. It said he was concerned that moving to either 
the PPF or BSPS2 would impact his ability to retire early, and he also was concerned, as he 
was not married, that his partner and child may not benefit from the pension in the event of 
his death.
LASL also carried out an assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be high 
medium or 6 on a scale of 1-10.
On 9 August 2017, LASL advised Mr C to transfer his pension benefits from the BSPS into a 
personal pension and invest in one of the providers managed funds. The suitability report 
said the reasons for this recommendation where it would ensure Mr C could access his 
pension at age 57 and gave flexibility to allow him to control the level of income taken. It 
would also give him control over his pension and benefits and enable him to leave the 
pension as a legacy for his partner and daughter.
Application forms were completed on the same day the advice was provided. Mr C also 
signed a form on 9 August 2017 that had been prepared for him by LASL. This said its 
analysis had not included a comparison with the new scheme being proposed under the  
RAA, the BSPS2, as details were not yet available. But it said that the benefits under the 
BSPS2 were expected to be less than those under the BSPS. So, Mr C was happy to 
proceed based on current comparisons.
On 11 August 2017 it was formally confirmed that the RAA was progressing. And on 
25 August 2017, an update was issued about transfer values. This said that the trustees 
expected to be able to provide improved CETVs to members when the steps in the RAA 
were carried out  including a large lump sum payment into the scheme.
The steps of the RAA were completed, and the BSPS separated from Mr Cs employer, on 
11 September 2017. With an announcement confirming members would now have to choose 
between joining the BSPS2 or remaining in the BSPS and moving to the PPF. It also 
explained updated transfer values would be sent to members as well as literature to assist 
with their choice.
The transfer of Mr Cs benefits does not appear to have completed by this point. I say this 
because the amount transferred to his new pension was higher than the CETV quoted in 
June 2017  which appears to have been as a result of the revised transfer values 
mentioned above. Despite this new information being available, including further details of 
the BSPS2, LASL did not revisit its advice to Mr C.
Mr C complained in 2021 to LASL. He said he didnt think the transfer, and the additional risk 
this brought, was suitable for him.
LASL didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said it believed the transfer was in his interests as it 
allowed Mr C to meet his objectives and the other options available to him wouldnt have 
been more advantageous. Mr C referred his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators considered the 
complaint. He thought it should be upheld and that LASL should compensate Mr C for any 
loss the DB transfer had led to and pay £300 for the distress caused to him. The Investigator 
noted that there were significant announcements about the BSPS2 forthcoming at the time 
of the advice. And he felt LASL shouldve advised Mr C to await this information before 
making a decision. He also didnt think Mr C had a genuine need for flexibility and the 
alternative death benefits were not an appropriate reason to give up his guaranteed pension 
benefits  particularly as Mr C was unlikely to improve on these by transferring. He also 
noted that under the PPF and the BSPS2, Mr C couldve still retired early, but LASL hadnt 
been clear about that. Overall, he felt Mr C ought to have been advised to remain in the 
BSPS and that he wouldve subsequently moved with it to the PPF as this had more 
favourable reductions for early retirement. And he was satisfied retiring early was a genuine 
objective of Mr Cs  noting hed accessed benefits from age 55.
LASL didnt agree. It said when it considered the complaint, the advice had been subject to a 
skilled person review by an independent party using the Defined Benefit Advice Assessment 
tool (DBAAT), developed by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It said 
this had found the advice was suitable.
Mr Cs representative said it felt redress should be based on the normal retirement age of 
65, and on him opting into the BSPS2. It said his plans were unconfirmed at the time of the 
advice and, although he had accessed benefits from his pension from age 55, felt hed have 
found other ways to obtain access to funds if he hadnt transferred. They also said they 
didnt think making an overall 15% notional deduction from the compensation amount to 
account for income tax was fair as this didnt account for ongoing charges that Mr C may 
incur.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of LASL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the FCA, states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer 
from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, LASL should have only considered a transfer if 
it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Cs best interests. While it is true this 
is categorised as guidance, rather than a rule, I dont think its importance can be 
overlooked. It is intended to reflect the FCAs view (which it has maintained ever since) that 
retaining safeguarded benefits is in the best interests of most customers  so it is an 
important guiding principle for any firm giving advice. And in any event, the FCA still requires 
that an adviser acts in accordance with the best interests of its client under COBS 2.1.1R. 
And I think that this reinforces that advice to transfer out of a DB scheme should only be 
given if it is in the customers best interest to do so. And having looked at all the evidence 
available, Im not satisfied a transfer was in Mr Cs best interests.
Financial viability 
At the time it gave advice LASL was required by the regulator to carry out a transfer value 
analysis (TVAS) and produce an associated report. One of the things that it was required to 
calculate was the critical yield - how much Mr Cs pension fund would need to grow by each 
year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme at retirement.
I can see that LASL ran several TVAS reports. Two in June 2017, when its adviser first 
reached the conclusion that theyd recommend that Mr C transfer. And another in August 
2017, after that advice had undergone internal checking. However, I think all three omitted 
an important piece of analysis.
LASL recorded that Mr C wished to retire at age 57. And its recommendation is clear that 
this objective was a key driver for its advice. The TVAS reports all calculated the relevant 
critical yields for retiring at age 65 (the normal retirement age of the BSPS) and age 57 while 
remaining in the BSPS. They also calculated the critical yield required to match the benefits 
the PPF would provide at age 65. But no calculation was undertaken of the critical yield 
required to match the benefits the PPF would provide at age 57.
The suitability report referred to Mr C potentially not being able to access benefits from the 
PPF before age 65. But I havent seen anything to support that this was correct. As I 
understand it, based on wider information Ive seen and my experience of similar cases, 
Mr C wouldve had the option to retire early under the PPF, because the BSPS provided this 
option and the PPF would mirror this. It is true, as Ill discuss later, the benefits wouldve 
been subject to an actuarial reduction. But hed have had the option to retire at age 57 
through the PPF.
Because of this, and given his recorded aim to retire at age 57, I think the TVAS reports 
shouldve included a calculation of the critical yield required to match the benefits the PPF 
wouldve afforded Mr C at age 57. Particularly as all the signs pointed to him being unable to 
retain the BSPS benefits in their existing form. Im satisfied that this couldve been 
calculated, as Ive seen similar calculations carried out in a number of other complaints. And 
that information shouldve been shared with Mr C so that he could make an informed 
decision. I also think it wouldve been appropriate for LASL to delay providing its advice, and 
recommend that Mr C wait, until further details of the BSPS2 were available. Which couldve 
then been factored into its comparison with a relevant TVAS carried out.  The CETV that 
Mr C received on 9 June 2017 was valid until 9 September 2017. So, at the time LASL 
advised him to transfer, it was still guaranteed for a further month. Delaying the advice to 
account for new information becoming available would, in my view, have therefore been 
appropriate. And, if it had been delayed, details of the BSPS2 wouldve been forthcoming 
before the CETV expired, as would confirmation that updated transfer values would be 
forthcoming free of charge and that members would be given time to make a choice. Indeed, 
LASLs own internal review of the advice, completed on 5 August 2017, said that waiting for 
details of this would be appropriate and referred to this information being due imminently. 
Transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-off event. Once transferred there's no going back, 
the benefits of the DB scheme are usually lost forever. Waiting wouldve allowed LASL to 
carry out an analysis of the BSPS2 benefits, and properly compare these to the alternatives, 
and based it advice on this. Without doing this, LASL was acting on information which it 
knew to be limited, so it is difficult to argue that it could properly assess whether a transfer 
was in Mr Cs best interests. And the only message Mr C received was that his benefits 
under the BSPS2 would be less than the existing scheme, without knowing whether this 
difference was actually significant or whether it wouldve made a difference to his retirement 
plans.
Nevertheless, Ive looked at the information that was included in the TVAS report to consider 
if a transfer was in Mr Cs interests. Specifically, Ive considered the latter of the three TVAS 
reports LASL instructed.
The TVAS said that the critical yields to match the benefits the BSPS wouldve provided at 
65 were 7.97% if Mr C took a full pension and 5.69% if he took the maximum possible tax-
free cash and a reduced pension. To match the benefits the PPF wouldve provided at 65 it 
said the critical yields were 4.01% for a full pension and 3.51% for a reduced pension. 
As LASL didnt await the further information about the BSPS2 or revisit its advice when this 
was available (before the transfer completed) the critical yields for it were not calculated. The 
BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits as the BSPS but the annual revaluation 
pre-retirement and escalations post-retirement wouldve been lower. The lower annual 
increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat 
compared to the BSPS. But, based on my experience of other complaints, I still think they 
wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF, particularly at age 65.
The advice though was given on the basis that Mr C intended to retire at age 57. The critical 
yields required to match the benefits the BSPS wouldve provided from age 57 were 16.79% 
for a full pension and 10.83% for maximum tax-free cash and a reduced annual pension.
The critical yields required to match the benefits the PPF and the BSPS2 wouldve provided 
from age 57 werent calculated. But, based on what we know about the benefits those two 
schemes offered and similar complaints Ive seen I think the critical yields the PFF and 
BSPS2 wouldve returned at age 57 were again likely to be lower than for the BSPS. But 
they were also in my view likely to be higher than the critical yield figures the PPF returned 
for age 65  in much the same way the BSPS critical yields were significantly higher for 
earlier retirement. This is generally due to the shorter time for growth to be achieved. And 
again, this has been reflected in other complaints Ive seen  critical yields for early 
retirement under the BSPS2 and PPF are almost always greater than for the equivalent 
critical yields at the scheme retirement age. So, I think the critical yields in respect of the 
benefits the PPF and BSPS2 would offer Mr C at 57 were likely, in this case, to be quite a bit 
greater than 3.51%.The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The discount rate at that time for four full years to retirement, applicable if Mr C were to retire 
at age 57, was 3%. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time 
was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
LASL said that Mr C had a high medium risk profile. But looking at the information from the 
time, Im not convinced that Mr Cs attitude to risk was at this level. Mr C was specifically 
asked if, compared to the average person he would say he took more risks but disagreed. 
He also agreed with statements that he thought it was reckless to take financial risks and he 
would rather know he was getting a guaranteed rate of return that be uncertain about 
investments. And he indicated hed only be willing to tolerate small losses. The capacity for 
risk analysis also referred to Mr C not intending to use the investment for 6 to 10 years. But 
the recommendation again was based on Mr C intending to retire by age 57, in under 5 
years, and that hed begin drawing benefits from this pension. And bearing in mind the 
reason for him seeking advice was the apparent risk to his pension that the consultation 
posed, it appears that Mr C mayve had a lower attitude to risk than LASL suggested. But, in 
any event, the risk profile report that LASL compiled in this case said that the estimated 
potential annual growth rate of the asset mix that was going to be targeted for Mr C, in line 
with his recorded attitude to risk, was 3.25% per year.
I've taken all of this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr C giving up the guarantees 
available to him through his existing scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of 
benefits outside the scheme. But here, given I think the lowest critical yield at age 57 was 
likely to exceed 3.51%, even if Mr C had a high medium attitude to risk as LASL suggests, I 
think he was always likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value at retirement than he 
wouldve received under the BSPS2 or the PPF, as a result of transferring and investing in 
line with LASLs recommendation. And indeed, the recommendation letter noted the yields 
are not guaranteed to be achievable based upon your attitude to investment.
LASL referred, in its suitability report, to cash flow models that it said showed, if 5% growth 
was achieved each year, that Mr C could withdraw and income starting at £18,000 at age 57 
and escalating and 2.5% per year and the fund would last until he was over the age of 100. 
But this was dependent on achieving growth at the regulators mid-rate year on year, which 
based LASLs own analysis of estimated potential growth doesnt appear likely. And this 
doesnt factor in any periods of losses or poor performance. 
So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think, from a financial viability perspective, that a 
transfer was in Mr Cs best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration 
when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
LASL said Mr C wanted flexibility to be able to vary the income he took throughout 
retirement and was concerned he wouldnt be able to retire at age 57 under the PPF or the 
BSPS2. The fact-find didnt though identify, at the time of the advice, any expected need for Mr C to 
take tax-free cash before he began drawing an income from his pension. And it suggested 
he expected to need a specific level of income throughout retirement. So, I dont think Mr C 
required flexibility in retirement in terms of how he could access his benefits. Rather this 
appears to have been a nice to have instead of a genuine need.
In terms of early retirement being possible, again LASL chose not to wait for further 
information about the BSPS2 to be available or to revisit and update its advice once this was 
provided, before the transfer. So, Mr C wasnt provided information about the availability of 
this option under the BSPS2 before the transfer took place.
LASL made reference in its recommendation to benefits potentially not being accessible 
before age 65 under the PPF and transferring ensuring he could meet this objective. But I 
havent seen anything to support what it suggested  that benefits couldnt be taken early 
under the PPF. And it contradicted this later in the recommendation by saying early 
retirement would be available. So, the information about this wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been to allow Mr C to make an informed decision.
For the avoidance of doubt, under both the PPF and the BSPS2 Mr C couldve accessed his 
pension benefits from age 57. So, he didnt need to transfer in order to meet this objective. I 
would add that given Mr Cs age at the time of the advice I think retiring at 57 appears likely 
to have been a genuine aspiration, which was achievable, and this has been further 
supported by what he has done since - drawing pension benefits from age 55 onwards.
It is true that if Mr C drew his benefits at age 57 under either the PPF or the BSPS2, the 
structure under which he could take them would be quite rigid  he could choose at the 
outset whether to access tax-free cash and then would receive a regular pension income 
(guaranteed and escalating). But again, I dont think he had a genuine need for flexibility. 
The amount he could take on early retirement under either option would be subject to an 
actuarial reduction  in the same way the BSPS wouldve been if the issues with that hadnt 
arisen, and it had continued as originally intended. The actuarial reduction is intended to 
reflect the pension benefits are being paid for longer and by retiring at age 57 Mr C wouldve 
been receiving his pension eight years sooner. 
Again, LASL didnt analyse the benefits that wouldve been available to Mr C under the PPF 
from age 57  which I think it shouldve done. But I can make some assumptions about what 
these were likely to be.
The TVAS report estimated that at age 65 the BSPS would pay Mr C a starting pension of 
£37,875 or tax-free cash of £167,343 and a reduced pension of £25,101. At age 57 the 
BSPS would pay a full starting pension of £23,392 or tax-free cash of £110,284 and a 
reduced annual pension of £16,452. At age 65 the PPF was estimated to offer Mr C a full 
pension of £32,052.55 or tax-free cash of £163,983.84 and a reduced annual pension of 
£24,664.97. 
So, at age 65, the benefits the PPF would offer were less than those the BSPS would. And 
based on my experience, for early retirement the benefits the PPF would provide also 
tended to be lower than those the BSPS would provide. But the difference is not always that 
great, as the PPF had relatively favourable early retirement reductions. And the closer the 
pension holder was to retirement, the smaller the difference between what the PPF would 
offer for early retirement to the BSPS tended to be. So, as Mr C was 52, and only a short 
period from retirement, I think the benefits the PPF wouldve offered at age 57 were likely to 
be less than those the BSPS would provide, but not necessarily significantly so.And based on this and his circumstances, I think its likely Mr C couldve still met his income 
needs in retirement by retiring early under the PPF. 
It is true that if hed taken tax-free cash under the PPF, his income was likely to be below 
what the BSPS would offer in equivalent circumstances, estimated to be £16,452. But he 
didnt have any recorded needs for tax-free cash. So, even if he chose to draw this, he 
couldve retained and used it to meet any income shortfall. In addition, Mr C was also 
contributing to his employers new DC pension scheme, with his and his employers 
combined contributions being equivalent to 15% of his salary. Before even accounting for 
growth, Mr C increasing contributions or being awarded any pay rises, its likely that by age 
57 this policy wouldve been worth over £40,000. And again, Mr C couldve used these 
benefits, flexibly, to meet any initial shortfall in his pension needs. And Mr C indicated that he 
and his partner intended to retain their rental properties, which provided them a net income 
of £600 per month. Which again appears likely to have been enough to cover any shortfall 
between the income the pension provided and Mr Cs expected income requirement. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think it was in Mr Cs best interests to give up the 
guaranteed income he was entitled to under his existing scheme  which as Ive already 
explained I think he was unlikely to improve on by transferring  just to achieve flexibility that 
he didnt need. Mr C was likely to be able to meet his objective of retiring early in the existing 
scheme, even accounting for any reduction in benefits he might incur by moving to the PPF.
Death benefits
LASL says the ability to leave his pension fund to his partner and child was important to him, 
noting it wasnt certain that his partner would qualify for a spouses pension under the 
existing pension, as they were unmarried. I cant see though that LASL enquired whether 
Mr C and his partner may get married in the future  with the spouses benefit then 
becoming accessible. Nor does it appear that LASL actually sought to confirm whether 
Mr Cs partner would qualify as things currently stood, rather it seems to have just assumed 
she would not.
In any event, while death benefits are an emotive subject and important to consumers, a 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. Of course, when asked, most 
people would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. And the lump sum 
death benefits on offer through a personal pension mightve been an attractive feature to 
Mr C. But whilst he might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr C about what was best 
for his retirement provisions. And I dont think LASL explored to what extent Mr C was 
prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
In addition, whilst the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential 
lump sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be different 
to that figure  unless Mr C had passed away immediately, which was unlikely. As well as 
being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also been reduced by any income 
Mr C drew in his lifetime. There was nothing to suggest Mr C wasnt in good health or that he 
was less likely to live until at least his average life expectancy. And so, it appears entirely 
possible the fund wouldve been significantly depleted by the time it was passed on to any 
dependents. So, the pension may not have provided the legacy that Mr C may have thought 
it would. In any event, LASL should not have encouraged Mr C to prioritise the potential for 
alternative death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.And if Mr C genuinely wanted to leave a further legacy for his family, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think LASL 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. It indicated in the recommendation letter that Mr C 
has said he didnt want to discuss providing for his dependents, which was why this was not 
assessed. But this would seem to contradict Mr Cs apparent concerns about providing a 
legacy for his family through his pension. So, I think this shouldve been explored with Mr C, 
even if hed initially discounted this, as LASLs role was to advise him on what was in his 
best interests. Mr C had quite a healthy surplus income each month with which to potentially 
pay for cover. And again, there was nothing to suggest that he wasnt in good health, so this 
was likely to have been affordable and, in any event, couldve been explored on a whole of 
life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C or meant that transferring 
was in his best interests.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the BSPS
LASL noted that Mr C viewed leaving his benefits where they were as high risk and wanted 
control over his pension. I note that Mr C was recorded as having experience of buying 
shares in the past. But he doesnt appear to have still held these at the time of the advice. 
And, even if this was the case, I dont think this meant he had enough relevant experience or 
knowledge to be able to manage his pension fund on his own. Particularly given the size and 
importance of his pension pot, which represented almost all of his private pension 
arrangements. And the reference to remaining in a scheme that provided guaranteed 
benefits and had a safety net in the form of PPF, as being high risk seems to underscore 
this potential lack of relevant knowledge. So overall, I think this desire for control has been 
overstated.
Rather, I think this objective was more linked to the uncertainty about the BSPS. I dont 
doubt Mr C, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His employer 
had been consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time. And there appears to have 
been a general mistrust and lack of optimism. I also dont doubt Mr C was potentially worried 
about what his pension ending up in the PPF would mean or that hed heard negative things 
about this outcome. And this was potentially why he viewed this as high risk and couldve 
meant he was leaning towards transferring and why he suggested hed preferred to have 
control over his pension fund. But that is why it was even more important for LASL to give 
Mr C an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
Mr C may well have had negative feelings towards his employers handling of his pension so 
far, which I think was a reasonable emotional response. But the trustees of the pension 
scheme were not one and the same as his employer, nor was the PPF. I think LASL 
shouldve done more to explain this significant distinction. I also note Mr C was continuing to 
work for the same employer, doesnt appear to have any intention to change this and was a 
member of the employers new DC scheme. So, the relationship does not appear to have 
completely broken down.
When LASL advised Mr C to transfer, important updates about the BSPS2 were imminent  
as its own internal reviewer noted. If Mr C did have concerns about the PPF, I think LASL 
shouldve waited for more details of the BSPS2 to become available, before advising Mr C, 
as this couldve gone a long way to alleviating some of his concerns.But in any event, I think that LASL shouldve reassured Mr C that the scheme moving to the 
PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. Taking benefits early under the PPF was an option 
 so he couldve still retired early. And while the increases in payment in the PPF were 
lower, it would still have provided a guaranteed income for the rest of his life that was not 
subject to any investment risk. By transferring he was taking on additional risk and, as Ive 
explained, I dont think he was likely to be substantially better off, such that taking this risk 
was in his interests. Instead, though LASL seems to have provided conflicting and 
misleading information which suggested that taking benefits early under the PPF was 
potentially in doubt. So, I dont think the information LASL gave Mr C about this was clear 
and fair and I dont think any concerns Mr C mightve had about the PPF shouldve led to 
LASL recommending he transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments
LASL recommended that Mr C invest in a particular fund with his new pension provider. As 
Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Mr C, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr C should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and alternative death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr C. But LASL wasnt 
there to just transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to 
separate his concerns stemming from the consultation from his genuine needs and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
LASL says that a skilled person has reviewed the advice, using the DBAAT which was 
developed by the FCA, and considered it to be suitable. LASL hasnt provided a copy of the 
DBAAT assessment that it says was carried out here. So, I havent seen how the reviewer 
answered the various questions. But regardless I am satisfied I have considered the 
suitability of the advice as a whole. And ultimately, having done so, I dont think the advice 
given to Mr C was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. 
By transferring, Mr C was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and, in my view, for 
the reasons Ive explained above, there were no other particular reasons which would justify 
a transfer and outweigh this. So, I think LASL shouldve advised Mr C to remain in his DB 
scheme.
While I know his representative does not agree, I think retiring early was a genuine objective 
for Mr C at the time of the advice. And the fact that he has gone on to draw benefits from 
age 55, in my view reinforces this. As a result, I think, if suitable advice had been given here, 
Mr C wouldve likely gone on to move to the PPF, because of the more favourable early 
retirement reductions it offered, given his intention to retire early. I also dont agree with his 
representative that Mr C only drew benefits from that point because he transferred. It 
appears to have been a clear intention of his to retire early and access his benefits. And, 
based on what Ive seen, given the amount he required for his purposes at the point he 
accessed his benefits, I think hed have always obtained these from his pension.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr C would've gone ahead with a transfer anyway, 
against LASL's advice and Ive considered this carefully. But Im not persuaded that Mr C 
wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against LASLs advice. I accept that 
LASL outlined some of the risks associated with transferring to Mr C. But ultimately, it 
advised him to transfer out of the BSPS, and I think Mr C relied on that advice. While Mr C had apparently purchased shares previously, Ive not seen anything to suggest 
he had much experience regarding managing his pension. His BSPS pension accounted for 
the majority of his retirement provisions. And he was unlikely to improve on the benefits he 
was due by transferring and the risk was lower, even if he didnt fully understand that. So, if 
LASL had provided him with clear advice against transferring, explaining why it wasnt in his 
best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that his concerns about the consultation or his apparent preference for 
flexibility and alternative death benefits were so great that he wouldve insisted on the 
transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out, didnt think 
it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If LASL had explained that he couldve still 
retired early by remaining in the DB scheme and provided a legacy to his family through 
other means, without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant 
weight. So, I dont think Mr C would have insisted on transferring.
In light of the above, I think LASL should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
I've thought about Mr C's representative's point regarding the 15% deduction from any 
redress payable, to take into account the tax Mr C would've paid had this been taken as 
income. It believes this is unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been 
deducted from the fund value over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this 
may unfairly reduce the redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact 
compensation in these circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr C 
back into the scheme as if the transfer out hadn't happened  which isnt possible. So, 
overall, I remain of the view that the redress proposed fairly compensates Mr C for the 
impact of the unsuitable advice he received.
Our Investigator recommended that LASL also pay Mr C £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr C has been caused distress and concern by finding 
out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended is fair. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. As Ive explained, I consider 
Mr C would most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and moved with 
it to the PPF if suitable advice had been given. 
LASL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
LASL should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr C and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what LASL based the inputs into the 
calculator on.
For clarity, Mr C began drawing pension benefits from age 55. So, compensation should be 
based on him taking benefits at that age.This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Cs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, LASL should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension.
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr C accepts LASLs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, LASL may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, LASL should pay Mr C £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited pays Mr C the balance.If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman