DRN-4290258
The complaint
M, a limited company complains that New Wave Capital Limited trading as Capital on Tap 
(COT) breached the terms of its agreement.
M seeks payment of damages and is represented in its complaint by a director, Mr T. 
What happened
M had a revolving credit agreement with COT with an £8,000 credit limit. In late December 
2022, COT asked M about the withdrawals it had been making. M told COT that it was using 
the money for working capital. 
In early January 2023, COT again asked M for an explanation about how the drawdowns 
were being used within the business and suspended Ms access to the account. Mr T 
responded the same day and then contacted COT towards the end of January 2023 to find 
out what was happening with the account. COT apologised that it hadnt forwarded Ms 
responses to the correct team to deal with. COT asked Mr T to supply three months bank 
statements so that it could review the suspension of Ms account.
After M provided bank statements to COT, it said the suspension of the account would 
remain in place because the statements showed that M wasnt actively trading. M says this 
was incorrect as there was evidence of daily debits and credits. M said that COT hadnt even 
seen the bank statements at the time it suspended the account.
Mr T says that COT was in in breach of clause 6.2 of its agreement, as it didnt give two 
months notice of any changes. Mr T says COT hasnt given it a credible explanation of why 
it suspended the account. Mr T says M is left with a shortfall in working capital which it holds 
COT responsible for.
COT agreed that it delayed dealing with the suspension of Ms account. For this, it offered M 
£50. But COT didnt agree that it made a mistake when it suspended Ms access to the 
account. COT told M that it would need to make the next three repayments on time and 
provide a business bank statement showing that M was actively trading before it would 
consider whether to lift the suspension.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms complaint. Our investigator explained that the terms of Ms 
agreement allowed COT to suspend access to funds in certain circumstances. After COT 
received the information it requested from M, it kept the block in place. Our investigator 
thought that this was in line with the agreement M had with COT. 
Our investigator agreed that COT should have sent the information M provided for review 
more quickly than it did. However, our investigator didnt think this would have changed 
anything as after carrying out the review, COT thought the block should remain in place.
Our investigator said that while clause 6.2 meant COT should give two months notice of any 
change, this wouldnt supersede the other clauses that COT was relying on to suspend Ms 
account. Finally, our investigator said it would be for a court to decide whether there had 
been any breach of contract. But hed seen nothing to suggest that COT did anything wrong.
Mr T wasnt happy with the investigation outcome. He doesnt accept the investigators 
interpretation of clause 6.2. Mr T says that by COT not performing its part of the bargain, it 
has repudiated Ms contract. Mr T says it incorrect to say that M isnt trading as it publishes 
accounts every year and is clearly trading.
Our investigator responded to Mr Ts concerns by saying he didnt think COT needed to give 
M two months notice before blocking its account. He also thought there were other clauses 
in the agreement which allowed COT to monitor Ms account and request additional 
information.
As Mr T confirmed to our investigator that hed used personal funds to support the business 
of M, our investigator didnt think it was unreasonable of COT to suspend access after 
viewing Ms bank statements. Our investigator didnt think there was any reason why COT 
shouldnt ask M to repay the money it had borrowed.
Mr T remained unhappy. He said M used the facility in line with the terms of the account. Mr 
T said COT didnt given it 60 days notice of the suspension which meant he had to fund M 
personally. Mr T also said that wed not clarified part of COTs final response.
Our investigator went back to Mr T to say that he didnt think hed missed part of clause 6.2 
and that he didnt agree with the conclusions Mr T was trying to draw about the wording.
Our investigator agreed that COTs final response could have been worded more clearly but 
said that it didnt change the outcome of the complaint as ultimately, our investigator thought 
COT actions were reasonable. Even if COT had reviewed the information M provided 
sooner, our investigator thought it would have still decided that M didnt meet its lending 
criteria.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that I have summarised Ms complaint. I hope Mr T will understand that Im not 
being dismissive of the points that hes made, but this reflects the informal nature of our 
service. I want to reassure Mr T that I have read everything that he has sent to us. I hope he 
will understand if I dont address every comment made. I intend to concentrate on what I 
consider is key to this complaint.
Im satisfied that under the terms of its agreement with M, COT is allowed to carry out 
reviews of its customers accounts and suspend access. So, I am focussing on whether COT 
acted reasonably when it took both these steps. 
The facility which COT provided to M was only to be used for business purposes. COT says 
that since opening the account, M used it solely to make cash withdrawals which meant it 
could not easily monitor usage. Because of this, COT asked M what it was using the money 
for. I think this was a reasonable request permitted under the terms of the agreement.
I appreciate that Mr T responded to COTs information request in late December 2022 but 
COT appears to have overlooked this and so asked for similar information about the 
withdrawals at the beginning of January 2023. At this point, COT also suspended access to 
Ms account. Im satisfied that under clause 23 of the credit agreement, COT was allowed to suspend Ms 
ability to use the card and stop COT from making payments on Ms behalf in certain 
circumstances, including where there may be unauthorised use of the card or an increased 
risk that the customer will be unable to repay money owed to COT.
In Ms case, COT was concerned about the number of cash withdrawals it was making. So, I 
dont find it was unreasonable for COT to suspend access while it investigated further. After 
Mr T provided bank statements, COT could see cash transfers from Mr Ts personal account 
to Ms business account. COT was concerned that M wasnt generating enough income to 
trade and repay the money it borrowed. I think this was a fair concern to have, so I dont find 
that COT was unreasonable to leave the suspension of Ms account in place. Particularly as 
COT offered to review the suspension further down the line if M provided additional bank 
statements.
Its unfortunate that COT delayed reviewing the suspension until later in January 2023 after 
Mr T chased for an update. As the investigator told Mr T, COT didnt change its mind about 
the suspension after reviewing Ms bank statements. So, I cant see that the delay made a 
difference to the outcome of COTs review. However, I agree that COT should have dealt 
with the review more quickly than it did. For this, COT offered to credit Ms account with 
points equivalent to £50 to reduce the outstanding balance  I think this was a fair solution. 
I do want to address one of Mr Ts key points about the suspension of Ms account. My 
understanding is that Mr T believes that as the suspension was a change to the account  
COT should have given 60 days notice beforehand in line with clause 6.2 of the credit 
agreement. I dont intend any disrespect to Mr T but I disagree with this interpretation. 
Clause 6.2 provides that if COT wants to make any changes to the terms of the agreement it 
will give the customer two months notice in advance of making any change. However, by 
suspending access to the account, COT was not making a change to the terms. Instead, 
COT was relying on clause 23 which sets out when and how, it can suspend access to an 
account. 
Under clause 23 there isnt any requirement on COT to give its customer advance notice of 
the suspension. Instead, clause 23.2 of the agreement says that COT will get in touch to tell 
a customer that this has happened as soon as we can. In Ms case  COT suspended use 
of its card in early January 2023 and at the same time contacted Mr T to ask him to discuss 
the cash withdrawals. So, Im satisfied that COT acted in line with the terms of the account. 
Just because COT suspended Ms ability to access more funds doesnt mean that M didnt 
have to keep making the minimum payments. So, I dont find it reasonable to require COT to 
write off the outstanding balance or stop taking action to recover any amount which may be 
due from M.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but for the reasons outlined above, I dont find that COT should 
do more than it has already offered to do in response to Ms complaint. If Mr T still thinks that 
COT has breached the terms of Ms agreement, he is of course free to reject my decision 
and pursue Ms claim by other means, such as through the courts.
My final decision
My decision is that COT has already made an offer which I think is fair. So my final decision 
is that if it hasnt already done so, New Wave Capital Limited trading as Capital on Tap 
should credit £50 to Ms outstanding balance..Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman