DRN-3410683
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) unfairly 
declined a critical illness claim and cancelled their policy. 
Most of our communication has been with Mrs E, so for ease, Ill refer to her throughout this 
decision. 
What happened
On 18 February 2015 Mr and Mrs E applied for decreasing life insurance including critical 
illness cover with L&G. On the application, Mrs E disclosed a family history of multiple 
sclerosis (MS).
Mrs E contacted L&G on 24 February 2015 to say the application should also include her 
diagnosis of pernicious anaemia. A telephone medical interview took place on 3 March 2015. 
Earlier that day, Mrs E visited her GP about symptoms she thought could be linked to MS. 
She saw the GP again on 24 March 2015. 
The application was accepted with an increased premium and an exclusion for MS. The 
policy was due to run for 25 years from 1 April 2015.  
On 21 April 2015 Mrs E signed the check your details form confirming all the information 
shed provided on the application was correct. 
On 12 November 2020 Mrs E submitted a critical illness claim to L&G having been 
diagnosed with meningioma (a type of brain tumour).  
L&G declined the claim. It said Mrs E hadnt told it about contact shed had with her GP after 
the application was submitted, but before cover was put in place about tingling/pins and 
needles in her left hand. L&G considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, 
which entitled it to decline the claim, treat the policy as if it was never in place and return the 
premiums paid. 
Mrs E complained to L&G and asked it to reconsider its decision. In summary she said the 
question L&G asked about tingling/pins and needles was ambiguous and that her 
symptoms were not persistent at the time of the application and were improving. Mrs E was 
also unhappy with the time it had taken L&G to consider her claim.
L&G accepted its service had been below standard and paid Mrs E £350 for the trouble and 
upset this had caused. But it maintained its decision to decline her claim and cancel the 
policy. 
Mrs E brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. She said L&G had treated her 
unfairly be declining the claim and cancelling the policy. She said she didnt think the pins 
and needles was important  and shed only raised it with her GP because of the family 
history of MS. She also said this wasnt linked to her claim for meningioma and wanted us to 
listen to telephone calls shed had with L&G. 
Our Investigator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said L&G had asked a clear 
question that Mrs E had answered incorrectly. He thought L&G acted fairly by declining the 
claim, cancelling the policy, and returning the premiums.  
Mrs E doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She 
maintained the question L&G asked was unclear. 
Mrs E also provided a letter from her GP which she said supported her view that her pins 
and needles were not persistent before cover was put in place. And so, she hadnt 
answered the question incorrectly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I want to assure Mrs E that I didnt take this decision lightly. I understand this 
has been an incredibly difficult time for her, and I dont want to add to her distress. But I cant 
say L&G has treated her unfairly. 
Ive read and considered the whole file and listened to the telephone calls between Mr and 
Mrs E and L&G. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont 
mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
Did Mrs E take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation?
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
L&G thinks Mrs E failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation before 
cover started on 1 April 2015.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs E was asked, and what shes said about why she 
gave the answer she did. Ive also taken account of the supporting medical evidence. 
Ive looked at the question L&G are saying Mrs E shouldve answered differently in relation 
to her pins and needles. It said:
When answering the following questions, if you're unsure whether to tell us about a medical 
condition, please tell us anyway.Apart from anything you've already told us about in this application, during the last 5 years 
have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:  
 paralysis, numbness, persistent tingling or pins and needles [my emphasis], tremor 
or facial pain other than dental pain? 
Mrs E answered no to this question when she completed the application on 
18 February 2015. She contacted L&G post application about her pernicious anaemia but 
didnt mention her pins and needles.  
Mrs E has argued that L&Gs question is unclear. She says its not obvious to her what 
condition persistent is referring to  tingling  or tingling and pins and needles. 
Mrs E has also questioned how L&G has classified her pins and needles as persistent. She 
said she saw her GP on two occasions in March 2015 about her symptoms  during which 
time they were improving. 
The question is, I think, clear and unambiguous and Im satisfied the word persistent 
applies to both tingling and pins and needles. Both of which are referred to in Mrs Es 
medical notes below. 
Mrs E visited her GP on 3 March 2015. The notes say:
 seen by nurse for b12  as noticed some tingling [my emphasis] in fingers of left hand 
 but had high b12 result last week  pt concerned may be MS as mother has it  no other 
neuro features. Informed usually to consider testing for ms  2 neuro features separated in 
time and location on body  pt anxious to find out so that she can prepare. Long discussion 
 advised I will look into this  strongly advised pt to involve husband as the decision and 
outcome will affect the family  pt happy with this and will return in 2 weeks
She returned on 24 March 2015:
 Discussed with husband re ms testing  supportive of whatever decision but both came 
to conclusion that they felt she was worrying and going overboard  happier to wait at the 
moment  aware that we could consider neuro referral  that this may take months but pt still 
happy to forget for now and return if changes mind or develop symptoms  also pins and 
needles [my emphasis] in left hand  mainly tips of fingers  resolving [my emphasis]  
types a lot  possibly carpal tunnel  very mild rsi  review if any worse or not settling. Has 
occasional stiffness in left hand
Its not disputed that these appointments occurred after the application was submitted, but 
before cover was in place. But L&G made it clear both on the application and in the 
customer declaration that Mrs E had a duty to tell it about any changes to the answers shed 
given on the application before the policy started. 
The crux on Mrs Es argument rests on whether the symptoms she spoke to her GP about 
were persistent. Shes said she saw her GP on 3 March 2015 about one episode of pins 
and needles  and at the appointment on 24 March 2015  it was said to be resolving.  She 
said she didnt specifically visit her GP again on 24 March 2015 because the pins and 
needles were continuing or getting worse. Rather this was about the MS testing and an 
issue with her ears. And so, she cant see how her symptoms could be classified as 
persistent. 
I can understand the points Mrs E has made. But taking the notes above in context, she had 
pins and needles between 3 and 24 March 2015  at which point it was getting better but hadnt completely gone. I also think it is more likely than not that the symptoms started 
before she saw the GP on 3 March 2015  that being what prompted her visit given 
understandable her concerns about MS. 
Mrs E has also provided a letter from her GP to support her position, but I dont consider this 
to be very persuasive. The GP confirms Mrs E had an appointment on 3 March 2015 about 
her pins and needles as well as an appointment on 24 March 2015 to check on the 
symptoms due to [Mrs Es] concerns over [MS] in her family.  This confirms the symptoms 
were ongoing between 3 and 24 March 2015 (three weeks)  and so were persistent. The 
GP also confirms the appointment on 24 March 2015 was to review the symptoms and 
concerns over MS  even if other issues were also discussed. 
The GP also said that the symptoms were resolving at the time of the 24 March 2015 
appointment  and Mrs E didnt visit her GP again about them until August 2015. The GP 
considered this to be evidence the symptoms werent persistent. But given they werent 
resolved and had been ongoing for at least three weeks, I maintain Mrs Es symptoms were 
persistent for the purposes of L&Gs application.  
Im also mindful that L&G has referred to other questions that Mrs E shouldve provided 
updated answers on following her GP appointments on 3 and 24 March 2015. Those 
questions are as follows:
Apart from anything you've already told us about in this application, do you have any 
medical condition or symptom that: 
your doctor or nurse told you to see them about during the next 3 weeks?
 during the last 3 months have you had any of the following? 
 any other symptom that you may see a health professional about for the first time 
during the next 4 weeks. 
Mrs E was right to answer no to these questions when she completed the application. But 
before cover was in place on 1 April 2015, Mrs E had seen her GP for the first time about her 
pins and needles. And had a follow up appointment about the MS testing  linked to the pins 
and needles previously discussed. 
And so, taking all this into account, I think its reasonable L&G has said Mrs E shouldve told 
it about the pins and needles before cover started.
Whilst its clear to me Mrs E didnt provide her most up to date medical history to L&G before 
cover started  I appreciate she may not have done this with intent. But that doesnt mean 
theres no fault on her part. So, in line with CIDRA, I must decide if Mrs E took reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation. 
As Ive mentioned above, I think the question about pins and needles was clear and 
unambiguous. Mrs E mightve interpreted the question more narrowly than its been written, 
by not believing her symptoms to be persistent. But that, is itself, not taking reasonable care 
to provide L&G with the information it requested. I must also bear in mind that the two 
appointments Mrs E had with her GP were shortly after the application, and one was on the 
same day as she spoke to L&G about her pernicious anaemia.  So, I think this information 
was recent enough for her to remember.  
Mrs E was also reminded of the importance of providing accurate information, and the 
possible implications of not doing so. This was noted on both the application form, and when she was asked to check the details shed provided. Mrs E was also reminded of this when 
L&G spoke to her on 3 March 2015. L&G also made it clear to Mrs E that if she was unsure 
whether to tell it about something, she should mention it anyway.
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs E took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. 
Did the misrepresentation make a difference?
On her application, Mrs E declared a family history of MS. This meant that any claim for MS 
was excluded from her critical illness cover. 
I can see from L&Gs underwriting criteria from the time of the application (which I cant 
share with Mrs E as it is commercially sensitive) that if shed disclosed the pins and needles 
(possible neurological symptoms of MS) then that, combined with the family history of MS, 
wouldve meant critical illness cover wouldve been declined. And life cover wouldve been 
postponed for at least three months, or longer if symptoms persisted and had not been fully 
investigated. A new application would then need to be made. Under the ABI code of practice 
 this means life cover wouldve also been declined. 
This means Im satisfied Mrs Es misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.  
L&G has treated Mrs Es misrepresentation as careless. CIDRA sets out that where a 
consumer makes a careless misrepresentation the insurer can take whatever action it 
wouldve taken had the relevant information been disclosed at the outset. This could mean 
altering the terms of the policy, reducing the sum assured if a higher premium would have 
been charged, or, as L&G did, avoiding the policy if cover would never have been offered. 
This means the policy was looked upon as if it never existed, the claim was declined, and all 
the premiums were refunded. 
Mrs E wasnt referred for any further neurological tests to investigate the pins and needles 
before the policy started, and her symptoms were improving. She also didnt completely 
disregard the medical questions by disclosing her pernicious anaemia and family history of 
MS.  And so, I agree with L&G that the misrepresentation should be treated as careless. 
Taking everything into account, I think L&Gs decision to decline Mrs Es claim, cancelling 
the policy and returning the premiums was fair and reasonable. I can also see that L&G 
contacted Mr E with possible options for his cover to continue. So, I wont be asking L&G to 
take any action.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman