DRN-2126666
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way he was treated by staff at a branch of National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
In April 2020, Mr W made two visits to a NatWest branch. He says staff didnt want to let him 
into the bank, were rude and abusive, and didnt follow his instructions. 
NatWest said it was sorry for the upset Mr W had been caused but that, in the light of the 
Covid-19 pandemic, its staff were right to have suggested he use alternative ways of 
banking. It said staff had followed guidelines which it had put in place to keep people safe.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded NatWests staff had been abusive towards Mr W, and she 
thought its response to his complaint was reasonable. 
Mr W didnt accept that and asked for an ombudsmans review. He still thought NatWest was 
wrong to try to send him elsewhere when he visited the branch, and wants staff to change 
their attitudes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wider circumstances are relevant to this case. In March 2020, a pandemic was declared in 
the UK. Later that month, the regulator of the financial services industry, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), published statements setting out its expectations of banks and 
building societies. They were expected to keep branches open where possible to support 
their customers, but also to take precautions to keep staff and customers safe. The FCA 
urged customers only to visit branches where absolutely necessary and to use other means 
of doing their banking where possible. 
Ive seen a copy of the guidance NatWest put in place for its staff during this period. Its clear 
that staff were to direct customers to other ways to bank without the need for face-to-face 
interaction such as at a branch. The staff statements Ive seen from NatWest and Mr Ws 
recollections lead me to conclude that staff followed this guidance when Mr W visited. 
I think NatWest was reasonable in suggesting to Mr W that he use other means of banking 
instead of going to a branch  including telephone banking or using a Post Office more local 
to him. This was NatWests approach to all its customers, not just Mr W. So I dont think that, 
in suggesting alternative means of banking, staff were being unreasonable with Mr W 
because they dont like him or for any other reason.
NatWest didnt refuse to let Mr W do his banking. He needed to change a standing order and 
pay in some cash. He was able to pay in the money he wanted and his standing order was 
changed. The standing order wasnt, however, changed back again for the following 
payment as Mr W wanted. 
NatWest has said it cant make a current and a future change to a standing order at the 
same time. If so, I think it should have made that clear to Mr W. But I cant be certain exactly 
what it told him or what Mr W asked it to do at the branch. Importantly, Mr W was able to 
alter the standing order again later, and I find nothing to indicate that he lost out because of 
any miscommunication or failing.
Mr W has said branch staff were rude, unprofessional, and aggressive towards him, as they 
had been on earlier visits to that branch as well. Ive seen statements from the staff 
concerned which say the opposite. Ive considered everything both parties have told us to 
come to what I find to be a fair and reasonable outcome. 
In all the circumstances and given the background of the pandemic as Ive set out, I find I 
cant fairly conclude that NatWest treated Mr W inappropriately. Mr W has said he wants me 
to require NatWest to change the way its staff treat him in future. I would expect NatWest 
and its staff to treat Mr W fairly, in line with FCA requirements. But this service isnt a 
regulator. We have no power to tell a bank to train or discipline its staff in a particular way, 
and it simply isnt possible for me to guarantee a particular standard of service if Mr W visits 
this branch in future.
NatWest has already apologised to Mr W for the upset he felt, and I find I cant fairly require 
it to do any more than that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman