DRN-3737010
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr S complain about their mortgage with Kensington Mortgage Company Limited. 
Theyre unhappy it hasnt offered them lower interest rates and believe theyve paid too 
much interest as a result.
What happened
Mrs K and Mr S took their mortgage out in 2006. They borrowed £212,000 on an interest 
only basis over a term of 25 years. The mortgage was on an initial fixed rate of 7.49% for the 
first two years, and then reverted to Kensingtons standard variable rate (SVR) plus a 
premium of 3%. Its been on the reversion rate since the fixed rate expired.
Mrs K and Mr S have asked Kensington for a new interest rate several times, but its told 
them theyre not eligible for a new rate. 
Mrs K and Mr S complained about this issue in January 2019, and Kensington issued a final 
response in March 2019. As Mrs K and Mr S didnt bring that complaint to us within the six 
month time limit set out in the final response, that complaint is out of time. Our investigator 
explained that to Mrs K and Mr S, and they accepted it. In this decision, therefore, Ill focus 
on what has happened since March 2019.
In June 2019, Mr S rang Kensington and asked for a new fixed rate. Kensington told him it 
could not offer a new rate at that time, and it would let him know if the situation changed. In 
the meantime, it said he should seek independent financial advice to explore his options.
In September 2019, Mr S again asked about a new fixed rate, and was given the same 
answer. 
In October 2020, Mrs K contacted Kensington to ask about a new rate. Again, Kensington 
said it had no new rates available to them. It wrote to them and advised them to explore 
moving their mortgage to another lender.
In March 2021, Mr S again asked for a new rate, and again was told that Kensington could 
not offer them a new rate. 
In October 2021, Kensington wrote to Mrs K and Mr S to say it could now offer them a new 
interest rate on their mortgage. It offered them a variable rate of 3.99% above the 
Kensington Standard Rate, which at that time was 0.1%. Mrs K and Mr S accepted that offer. 
Mr S and Mrs K complained to us that Kensington had not offered them a rate before that. 
Our investigator didnt think Kensington had acted fairly in refusing a new interest rate when 
it had rates available it offered to other similar customers. He said Kensington should re-
work Mr S and Mrs Ks mortgage as if it had offered them a new rate from June 2019. 
Kensington did not agree and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision on the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs K and Mr S have asked for a new interest rate on their mortgage several 
times over the years. As weve already explained, we cant consider anything that happened 
before March 2019, as that is out of time  because Mrs K and Mr S didnt refer their 
complaint about that to us within six months of Kensingtons final response.
After March 2019, Mrs K and Mr S next asked for a rate in June 2019. But Kensington said 
there was nothing it could offer them.
At this time, Kensington did offer new fixed rates to some customers  but others, including 
Mrs K and Mr S, were not eligible for new rates. In general, its willing to offer new fixed rates 
(subject to other criteria) to customers whose mortgages were taken out since 2010  but 
not to customers with older mortgages.
This is because, as part of its business model, Kensington securitises its mortgages. This 
means it offers the beneficial interest in groups of loans to third party investors to raise funds 
for its ongoing mortgage business. This is a normal and legitimate feature of the mortgage 
industry and its not inherently unfair that Kensington operates its business in this way.
Kensington says that one consequence of this is that customers whose mortgages were 
taken out before 2010  when lending standards were very different to those of today  can 
not be offered new interest rates. Thats because changes to their existing mortgages cant 
be made under the terms of the securitisations. And because the loans were originally lent 
under less strict lending standards, it cant move them to new securitisations either. 
Customers in Mrs K and Mr Ss position therefore must remain on their existing interest rate, 
move their mortgage to another lender, or re-apply to Kensington as a new borrower and 
take a new mortgage to replace the old one. 
I think its likely Mrs K and Mr S are unable to move their mortgage to another lender, 
shopping around for a better rate. They have an interest only mortgage. Kensington itself 
accepts this is unlikely, since it offered them a variable rate in 2021 based on them being 
mortgage prisoners  borrowers unable to move elsewhere. So its not in dispute that this 
is their situation.
Theres no obligation on a lender to offer new interest rates to its customers. A lender might 
legitimately choose not to offer rates to any customers. And where it does offer rates, its fair 
and reasonable  and standard practice in the mortgage industry  for a lender to have 
eligibility criteria. These might mean that not all borrowers are offered the same rate, or that 
some are not offered a rate at all, based on matters such as loan to value and arrears 
history. 
However, in this case, Kensington didnt refuse a new rate to Mrs K and Mr S because of 
current characteristics of them or their mortgage  such as loan to value or arrears, or their 
wider credit risk  it refused them a rate because of the way it had chosen to securitise their 
mortgage. And that in turn was based on when and how Mrs K and Mr S had taken their 
mortgage out almost fifteen years before they asked about a rate in 2019. So I need to think 
about whether, in all the circumstances, this was a fair and reasonable basis to refuse them 
a new interest rate. 
In thinking about this, Ive taken into account the rules of mortgage regulation, to be found in 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook under the heading MCOB.
In particular, MCOB 11.8.1 E (the E means its an evidential provision, not a rule) says that where a borrower is unable to move their mortgage to a new lender (as Ms G was), their 
existing lender
should not (for example, by offering less favourable interest rates or other terms) take 
advantage of the customers situation or treat the customer any less favourably than 
it would treat other customers with similar characteristics. To do so may be relied on 
as tending to show contravention of Principle 6 (Customers interests).
Principle 6 is another part of the FCA Handbook, and says that a firm 
must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
As MCOB 11.8.1 E is an evidential provision, it means that conduct of the sort set out in the 
provision might show unfairness in some circumstances  but equally in other circumstances 
it might not. In my view, the provision is aimed at ensuring that borrowers who cannot shop 
around for a better deal are not taken advantage of and treated less favourably than other 
borrowers who can do so.
At the time Mrs K and Mr S asked about a rate, Kensington would offer a new interest rate to 
a customer whose loan was taken out after 2010, and who had an acceptable loan to value 
(below 90%), and who met the following criteria:
Not currently in arrears.
No arrears equivalent to one months payment or more in the last twelve months.
No other amounts outstanding. 
Kensington doesnt think MCOB 11.8.1 E applies in this situation, because it doesnt think 
Mrs K and Mr S have similar characteristics to customers to whom it does offer a rate  
because of the circumstances in which, and when, their mortgages were taken out. It points 
out that the underwriting requirements were very different prior to 2010, and that more recent 
customers had to meet the standards now in place before getting a mortgage, whereas 
Mrs K and Mr S did not. 
Ive taken this into account. But I dont think this is a relevant consideration. I think whats 
required for the purposes of MCOB 11.8.1 E is a comparison of characteristics as they are at 
the time of the application  in other words, did Mrs K and Mr S have similar characteristics, 
in June 2019, to customers who would have been offered a rate?
I say that because I dont think Mrs K and Mr Ss circumstances as they were in 2006, or 
Kensingtons lending criteria at that time, are relevant to their situation in 2019. I think the 
provision is referring to characteristics at the time of the comparison. 
And I also note that borrowers circumstances can change over time, after their loans have 
been taken out. A customer who took out a mortgage in (say) 2015, who passed 
Kensingtons lending criteria at the time of application but whose circumstances have since 
changed such that they would no longer pass those criteria in 2020 would still have been 
offered a rate in 2020 as long as they were not in arrears. Whereas Mrs K and Mr S would 
not.
In my view, whats relevant is whether, at the time of their application, Mrs K and Mr S had 
similar characteristics to other borrowers who would be eligible for a new interest rate  and 
whether, if they did, refusing them a rate would tend to show unfairness of the sort 
envisaged by MCOB 11.8.1 E.Ive also taken into account Kensingtons reasons for using the date the mortgage was taken 
out as a reason to refuse a new interest rate. As Ive said, thats based on its business 
model of securitisation. Securitisation is not an unusual business model and not inherently 
unfair. However, its also relevant to note that this is not something Mrs K and Mr S were 
aware of or had any control over. And I dont think it can be said to amount to a 
characteristic of Mrs K and Mr S or their mortgage  its something done to her mortgage by 
Kensington. And to the extent their characteristics in 2006 are the reason why their 
mortgage was securitised in this way, as Ive explained I dont think their characteristics in 
2006 are relevant for the application they made in 2019. I dont therefore think that 
Kensingtons choice to manage its business in this way is a relevant consideration for the 
purposes of the comparison envisaged by MCOB 11.8.1 E. Its a matter for Kensingtons 
commercial judgement how it chooses to structure its business. But if  as I think is the case 
here  that results in unfairness in an individual case, thats a matter for me.
Ive therefore looked at Mrs K and Mr Ss mortgage to see if I think they would have been 
eligible for a new interest rate in June 2019 disregarding the criteria about when their 
mortgage was taken out. And I think they would. Kensington has estimated their loan to 
value at the time as being around 73%, which would have qualified them for a rate.
Their payment history shows that they had been in significant arrears in the past, but not 
since March 2018  more than twelve months before June 2019. In the year up to June 
2019, they had made two payments late due to bounced direct debits. But in each case the 
payments were made up within two weeks, and in each case because their mortgage was in 
credit before the payments were missed, the missed payments did not result in arrears 
equivalent to one month or more. And, according to the transaction history Kensington has 
provided, there were no other amounts (such as fees) outstanding either.
Im therefore satisfied that  the question of when their mortgage was taken out apart  
Mrs K and Mr S would have qualified for a new interest rate when they asked about one in 
June 2019. And for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it was fair and reasonable (taking 
into account MCOB 11.8.1 E) to treat them less favourably based on when their mortgage 
was taken out  since I dont think that amounts to a characteristic at the time they made the 
application. In all the circumstances, therefore, Im satisfied that in refusing them a new rate 
at this time, Kensington didnt act fairly and reasonably.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Kensington should therefore put Mrs K and Mr S back in the 
position they would have been in had it offered them a rate when they applied in June 2019. 
Allowing time for an application to proceed, it should rework their mortgage as if a rate had 
been in place from 1 August 2019.
Kensington has provided a list of the rates it had available at this time  it had two three and 
five year rates available. Its not clear what rate Mrs K and Mr S would have selected at that 
time since no application was allowed to proceed. Given the passage of time since then, and 
for the sake of simplicity, it seems to me that the fairest outcome is to rework their mortgage 
as if they had taken a five year rate of 4.09% effective from 1 August 2019. 
This means Kensington will need to re-calculate their mortgage on that basis  treating 
payments to date as overpayments, and ensuring that it does not charge them more than 
4.09% from now until 31 July 2024. Mrs K and Mr S will then be able to apply for a new rate 
from August 2024 at the time  and Kensington should give any application fair 
consideration according to its criteria at the time, taking into account MCOB 11.8.1 E if it is 
still relevant to their situation at that time.Finally, Im satisfied that having to make repeated applications which were turned down, and 
having to pay more interest as a result, has caused Mrs K and Mr S substantial upset and 
inconvenience. Im satisfied that £500 is fair compensation for that.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited as follows:
It should re-work Mrs K and Mr Ss mortgage so that it is as if it had offered them a 
rate of 4.09%, fixed for five years, from 1 August 2019. 
In respect of payments due between this decision and 31 July 2024, it should ensure 
that it does not charge or collect interest above 4.09% until 31 July 2024;
In respect of payments made between 1 August 2019 and this decision, it should 
offer Mrs K and Mr S the choice of:
oHaving the additional amount theyve paid each month refunded to them, 
adding simple annual interest of 8%* running from the date of payment to 
date of refund; or
oHaving the additional amount theyve paid each month treated as an 
overpayment, reducing their mortgage balance and thus the interest in 
subsequent months accordingly.
It should pay Mrs K and Mr S £500 compensation within 28 days of the date we notify 
it Mrs K and Mr S have accepted this decision, if they do. If payment is not made 
within 28 days, simple annual interest of 8%* running from the date of notification to 
the date of payment should be added. 
* If there is an 8% interest element to any payment to Mrs K and Mr S, Kensington may deduct 
income tax from the 8% interest element as required by HMRC. But it should tell them what it has 
deducted so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if theyre entitled to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman