DRN-3194611
The complaint
This complaint is about a lifetime mortgage Mrs H has with Aviva Equity Release UK 
Limited. Mrs Hs court appointed attorney has said that he believes it was mis-sold because 
of the amount that is now owed on the mortgage. 
What happened
In 2005 Mrs H and the late Mr H took out a lifetime mortgage with Aviva. They released 
£49,400. The mortgage was designed to run for Mr and Mrs Hs lifetimes and would only 
become payable on the later of their deaths or when they moved out of the property. Interest 
was charged at a fixed rate set at the time of the sale and was added to the mortgage debt. 
The mortgage was designed to be repaid from the amount received when the house was 
sold. 
The fact find completed when Mr and Mrs H first discussed their requirements with the 
adviser detailed that they were retired and living on a modest income. Their disposable 
income was around £150 per month after essential expenditure. Mr and Mrs H told Aviva 
that their previous homes had been bigger than their current one. As they both had hobbies 
some additional space would assist with, they wanted to build a large extension. The build, 
along with fixtures and furniture, was anticipated to cost around £40,000. 
Mr and Mrs H also said they would like an additional £3,000 for holidays over the next few 
years and £5,000 as an emergency fund. They were asked about alternative options for 
raising the money they wanted, and they said that they didnt think they could afford to 
service traditional loans or mortgages and didnt want to be committed to a long-term 
payment. They also confirmed that the only savings they had consisted of £2,500 in a 
deposit account, and so this was insufficient for their purposes. 
In relation to the effect the mortgage would have on the amount of equity in the property, 
they said that they had been in the house for three and a half years, during which time the 
value of the property had consistently increased. As such, they wanted the growth already 
achieved and that going forward to improve their quality of life now and for the remainder of 
their retirement. It was documented that Mr and Mrs H had discussed the idea with their 
children and the children had been happy for them to go ahead with the mortgage. 
The illustration produced for Mr and Mrs H when the adviser was recommending the 
mortgage, detailed the annual interest rate as 7.49%. It went on to give examples of the 
amount the loan would have increased to at various points  at 10 years it showed a debt of 
£101,720 and at 20 years Mr and Mrs H would owe £209,454. In addition, examples of what 
the equity in the property would be at each of the same points in its life were given. These 
were based on some assumptions about the growth in value of the property. It was shown 
that if the property value didnt increase, there would be no equity in the property after less 
than 20 years. The fact that an early repayment charge (ERC) might be payable if the 
mortgage was paid off in certain circumstances was also documented. Potential amounts for 
an ERC were also detailed.
The adviser gave Mr and Mrs H a letter detailing his recommendation. It said that theyd told 
him they had been in the house for three and a half years and had settled into the area. 
They had decided to build an extension. They wanted to release money from the house to 
build the extension and also to pay for holidays over the next few years and to increase their 
emergency funds. It went on to say that the property had increased in value since they 
bought it and they wanted to use the value of the property to improve the quality of their lives 
then and for the remainder of their retirement. They told the adviser they were willing to 
erode all the equity in the property for the benefit of having as much money now as possible. 
It was explained that if house prices fell there was a risk that there would be no equity left in 
the property to leave to their sons. It was detailed that Mr and Mrs H had discussed it with 
their sons and they were happy for the mortgage to go ahead. 
In 2008, Mr and Mrs H took further borrowing of £19,117 on an interest rate of 6.89%. It was 
documented that they wanted to borrow the additional funds to pay for new conservatory 
roof blinds, new windows, decorating, new flooring, repaying some unsecured debts, to 
rejuvenate their emergency fund and pay the £245 administration fee. Mr and Mrs H signed 
the form confirming the amount they wanted to add to the mortgage and the reasons they 
wanted it. In addition, during the discussions with the mortgage adviser, Mr and Mrs H 
confirmed that theyd discussed the additional borrowing with their sons and grandchildren; 
who were happy for the borrowing to go ahead and understood there might be no equity left 
in the house to leave. By this point their disposable monthly income had dropped to £100 
and they had only £1,000 in deposit-based savings. Mr and Mrs Hs attitude toward risk was 
recorded as:
3) You are prepared to accept the risk of eroding all of the equity in your property for the 
benefit of having as much capital as possible now. 
A key facts document was produced for the additional borrowing before it was granted. This 
again explained how a lifetime mortgage worked and detailed what would be owed on that 
part of the mortgage over the first 16 years of the term. It showed that after 10 years the debt 
would have increased to nearly £38,000 and that would have increased to almost £57,000 
by the end of year 16. It was also detailed that the new and the original borrowing would total 
over £215,000 at the end of 16 years. The fact that an ERC might also be payable was 
detailed, along with examples of how much this might be at various points.
The recommendation letter produced by the adviser documented the details of the existing 
mortgage, including that Mr and Mrs H had been advanced £42,900 and then owed £53,045. 
There was a summary of the discussions about the reasons for the further borrowing and it 
was again documented that their sons were aware of it. It was documented that alternative 
ways of funding Mr and Mrs Hs requirements were discussed, but they either couldnt or 
didnt want to take up those options. The effect of the interest rolling up on the mortgage was 
highlighted. 
It was also explained that the rolled-up interest on any amounts used to pay off unsecured 
debts would likely be higher than the interest that would be payable on the original debt and 
the term would be extended. However, the adviser said that he thought it would be a good 
idea for Mr and Mrs H, as they were struggling to make the monthly payments and the 
interest rate was high, which had resulted in no capital being paid off over the previous year. 
The application went ahead, and Aviva accepted it. It sent Mr and Mrs H a mortgage offer 
which again explained how the mortgage worked and how much they would owe over the 
following 16 years. Mr and Mrs H accepted the offer. They also, at that stage signed a 
declaration confirming that theyd discussed the mortgage with their family, and the family 
was happy for Mr and Mrs G to proceed with it. When the attorney asked for a redemption statement in April 2021, he was told £172,500 
would need to be paid to clear the mortgage. He made a complaint.
Aviva responded to the complaint. It explained what a lifetime mortgage was and its process 
for selling one, including the involvement of a consumers own solicitor to confirm they 
understood the product. Aviva was satisfied, given the information Mr and Mrs H were given 
at the time of both sales, they were aware of the interest rate payable and the effect it would 
have on the amount owing. As such, it didnt uphold the complaint.
The attorney didnt accept Avivas conclusion. He said that he remained persuaded that 
Mr and Mrs H werent correctly advised as he was confident that they wouldnt have taken 
out the mortgage had they been fully aware of the implications. In addition, he said that they 
hadnt discussed taking the mortgage with their family as was claimed.
As the attorney remained unhappy with Avivas responses, he referred the complaint to this 
service. One of our investigator considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be 
upheld. 
The attorney didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said that Mr and Mrs H had 
always concerned themselves that there would be an inheritance left for their beneficiaries. 
With this in mind, he was confident that they wouldnt have entered into the mortgage 
knowing that there might be such a large amount of interest to pay when the property was 
sold. He questioned how it was justifiable for Aviva to charge over £110,000 in interest on 
the borrowing of just over £69,000. He considered this was an extreme level of profit for 
Aviva to make on the contract.
Our investigator considered what the attorney had to say, but she didnt change her 
conclusions. She highlighted the information contained in the illustration Mr and Mrs H were 
given in 2004, showing that the debt would increase considerably over time. The attorney 
remained dissatisfied and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my conclusions and reasoning on 8 November 
2021. Below is an excerpt. 
At the time of the original advance Mr and Mrs H had downsized and discovered that they 
didnt have enough space for their needs. As such, they wanted a significant amount of 
money in order to extend their home. They were given information about how much the 
amount borrowed at that time would be at various points. It showed that after 20 years the 
mortgage would amount to nearly £210,000, which was around £20,000 more than the 
property value in 2004. They were warned that if property values didnt increase, there might 
not be any equity in the property for their beneficiaries.
Having considered the information from 2004, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs H had no other 
options to raise the money they wanted. They confirmed themselves they couldnt afford to 
commit to regular payments for such arrangements as they had very little disposable 
income. Indeed, it appears that by 2008 their income had been insufficient for their needs 
and theyd acquired some unsecured debts they were having trouble servicing. 
By 2008 when Mr and Mrs H took the further advance, they confirmed to Aviva that they 
were willing to risk eroding all the equity in the property in order to obtain the money they 
wanted. Again, they were given clear information about how much both the further advance 
and the total borrowing could roll up to and what ERC might be payable. 
The attorney has asked how the amount of interest charged can be justified. The interest 
rates on this mortgage might seem unreasonably high at the present time, but they werent considered excessive at the time the loans were taken out. For example, in 2008 five-year 
fixed rates on traditional mortgages were generally in excess of 5%. Lifetime mortgages 
have always had slightly higher fixed rates associated with them as the lender is agreeing to 
lend money for potentially very long periods of time without any payments being received. 
The interest rates charged on Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage werent out of the norm for such 
mortgages. As our investigator said earlier, given the interest rates were clearly detailed 
before Mr and Mrs H agreed to the terms of the mortgage, and that they accepted those 
terms, it wasnt unreasonable for Aviva to charge that interest. 
While I know that the attorney wont agree, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs H were made 
aware at the time they borrowed the money how much they could owe over the years and 
that they were prepared for this to happen. I accept that he believes that Mr and Mrs H were 
always focussed on ensuring there would be an inheritance for their children, and they may 
have believed in 2004 the growth in their property value would mean this would happen. 
However, I am satisfied that by 2008 Mr and Mrs H were willing to sacrifice leaving an 
inheritance in order to facilitate maintaining their lifestyle.
Mr and Mrs H confirmed they had received my provisional decision, but they made no further 
comment.
Aviva acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and confirmed that it had no further 
comment to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have added any further comment or provided more evidence, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 
31 December 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman