DRN-3316928
The complaint
Mr M has complained through his representative that Markerstudy Insurance Company 
Limited turned down his claim under his motor insurance policy for the theft of his car. 
Hes also complained that Markerstudy allowed its salvage agent to sell his car, 
including the private number plate that went with it. Plus, hes said that the personal 
possessions in the car went missing.
A second representative did become involved in the complaint at a later stage. But, for 
the sake of ease, I will just refer to Mr Ms original representative in this decision.
What happened
Mr M contacted Markerstudy to report that his car had been stolen. It had been involved 
in an accident and caused damage to a parked car. Markerstudy investigated the claim. It 
eventually turned it down on the basis it was fraudulent. This was because what Mr M 
had said had happened was different to what the evidence supplied by the police 
suggested had actually happened.
Mr M asked for his car to be returned to him. But Markerstudy told him it had been 
collected by its salvage agent from the police pound, classed as a Category S total loss 
(write-off) and sold.
Mr M complained to Markerstudy about its decision to turn down his claim and about it 
allowing his car to be sold. He also said hed lost personal effects that were in the car. 
Markerstudy wouldnt alter its decision on Mr Ms claim. But it did accept it shouldnt have 
allowed his car to be sold. So it offered him £162 for the car, which it said was what it got 
from the salvage company, after the fees incurred to get the car from the police 
compound and the costs involved in investigating Mr Ms claim had been deducted. It also 
offered £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this had caused Mr M. It 
said it wouldnt pay anything for the personal effects, as Mr M had been sent a letter 
inviting him to collect his personal possessions before they were disposed of and he 
hadnt done so. Markerstudy didnt address the issue of the private number plate.
Mr M complained to us with the help of his representative. One of our investigators 
issued her view on the complaint by email. She said that Markerstudys decision to turn 
down Mr Ms claim was reasonable based on the evidence it had available. She also 
thought the amount Markerstudy had offered in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr M
had experienced as a result of it allowing its salvage agent to sell his car was reasonable. 
She also thought what Markerstudy had offered him for his car was reasonable. She did 
however suggest Markerstudy pay Mr M £298.87 to cover the loss of the private number 
plate.
Markerstudy agreed to pay the additional £298.97. However, Mr Ms representative didnt 
agree with the investigator. He questioned the evidence Markerstudy had relied on and 
why
 if Mr M had been involved in a hit and run as Markerstudy seem to be suggesting  he 
had not been arrested. He explained that he felt Mr M could have got his car repaired and 
back on the road for a lot less than Markerstudy had suggested. He also raised a concern 
that Mr Ms policy was cancelled without him being provided with a refund of premium.
The investigator responded with further comments. Mr Ms representative again 
suggested Mr M could have got his car repaired at a reasonable cost. And  in view of 
this  he didnt think £300 in compensation was enough. But he did say Mr M accepted 
the £298.97 in respect of the private number plate.
The investigator then asked Markerstudy for evidence of what it had received for the 
salvage. Having reviewed what it provided, our investigator suggested Markerstudy 
should pay a further £450, as it wasnt appropriate for it to deduct fees charged by the 
salvage agent. Markerstudy came back to say the fees it had deducted were the ones 
paid to the police to enable the agent to collect Mr Ms car, so it was satisfied they should 
be deducted.
The investigator then went back to Mr Ms representative and explained she still thought 
the amount Markerstudy had paid Mr M for the car was fair. She also said that she didnt 
think it needed to pay anything for personal possessions, as Mr M had not taken the 
opportunity to collect these, despite receiving a recorded delivery letter offering him the 
opportunity to do so.
As it was clear Mr M and his representatives didnt agree with her on most of the issues 
Mr M had complained about, the investigator put Mr Ms complaint forward for an 
ombudsmans decision. This is the final stage of our process and the complaint was 
allocated to me.
I issued a provisional on 1 February 2021 in which I set out what Id provisionally decided 
and why as follows:
Ive firstly considered whether Markerstudys decision to turn down Mr Ms claim was 
reasonable. I think it was. It relied on evidence from the police, which suggested the 
version of events Mr M had provided was false. And this meant it thought he lied in an 
attempt to have his claim accepted. Mr Ms policy states that if he does this Markerstudy 
can turn his claim down. And  while I appreciate Mr M and his representatives have 
questioned the evidence provided by the police - I am satisfied it was reasonable for 
Markerstudy to rely on it. I say this as it had no reason to doubt it, as it is independent. 
And it also arranged for an investigator to interview Mr M to check his version of events. 
And this also led to it having understandable concerns about his evidence. Im also 
satisfied Markerstudy was entitled to cancel Mr Ms policy without providing a refund of 
premium, as the terms and conditions also allow it to do this when a policyholder makes a 
fraudulent claim.
Markerstudy accepts it should not have allowed Mr Ms car to be sold as salvage. And I 
agree this was inappropriate and poor claim management. It clearly caused Mr M some 
distress and inconvenience, as he would have been very upset and frustrated to find this 
out.
This having been said, I agree the £300 Markerstudy has offered in compensation to 
reflect this is fair and reasonable. This is because, while Mr M may have got his car 
repaired, once hed been told it had been sold he knew he couldnt do this. And would 
have been able to move on and consider other options. So the distress he experienced 
was limited to some extent. And he was always going to face problems with getting insurance if hed had his car repaired, due to the incident hed claimed for and the fact 
hed had a claim declined and a policy cancelled due to fraud. He did also experience 
distress in losing his private number plate, but I still think £300 overall is sufficient.
However, I dont think Markerstudy has offered anywhere near enough to cover the 
financial loss Mr M suffered as a result of it allowing his car to be sold. I appreciate Mr 
Ms representative has questioned the extent of the damage of Mr Ms car, And 
Markerstudy hasnt provided an estimate to show what it would have cost to repair it. But 
it has classified it as a Category S total loss. And Im satisfied it wouldnt have done this if 
it didnt meet the correct criteria.
The salvage category of S does mean if Mr M had got his car back, he could have had it 
repaired. The problem is that it is now very difficult to tell what it would have actually cost 
Mr M to get this done. But  if he had managed to get it repaired he could have saved 
himself a considerable amount of money, compared to buying an equivalent replacement 
car. This having been said, I cant be sure the repairs would actually have cost. But what I 
do know is Mr M could have, at the very least, sold his vehicle through a salvage agent. 
And from what Markerstudys salvage agent got for the car at auction, I think - even 
allowing for commission to the selling agent, the police fees being deducted and the 
deduction of claim handling costs, Mr M would have received at least £1,000 net. So, I 
think Markerstudy should pay him this as compensation for the financial loss he suffered 
as a result of it allowing his vehicle to be sold. I appreciate this could be less than Mr M 
would have saved if he had managed to get his car repaired, but I think it is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. This is because I have no appropriate way of estimating 
what it would have cost Mr M to get his car repaired. And I dont know for sure, if he would 
have been able to get it repaired.
I dont think Markerstudy need to pay anything for the personal possessions in Mr Ms car, 
as he received a recorded delivery letter offering him the option to collect them, but didnt 
do so. And he was told in this letter theyd be disposed of if he didnt make contact in 90 
days.
Im satisfied what Markerstudy has offered for the private number plate is fair, as it is hard 
to tell what it will cost Mr M to get a suitable replacement and its offer reflects what was 
paid for it. Plus, Mr Ms representative has said he is happy with this amount.
I then provisionally decided Markerstudy should pay the following to Mr M:
£300 as compensation for distress and inconvenience, if it hasnt paid this already.
£298.87 as compensation for the loss of the private number plate.
£1,000 as compensation for the financial loss as a result of it allowing his car 
to be sold as salvage.
I gave both parties until 15 February to provide more comments and evidence. 
Mr M has provided further comments. Hes said that while his claim was still being 
investigated by Markerstudy he was asked by DVLA whether hed sold his car because 
someone else had taxed and insured it. This was despite Markerstudy saying his claim 
would be paid soon by him receiving the money to buy another car or by him getting a 
lower amount and his car back. It seems he is suggesting he only continued paying the 
monthly payments on his policy for a further five months because he was told this. And in 
the end he had to pay for the whole policy year. Hes said he was not charged with 
reckless driving or arrested by the police following the accident involving his car, despite 
them saying there was evidence showing he was at the scene. He thinks this shows they couldnt prove it was him. He admits he got confused with parts of his statement of what 
happened, but has said this was becuase he was frightened. He has said he did 
telephone the police the next day, but couldnt get through. This is in relation to the fact 
Markerstudy said the police had no record of such a call from Mr M. Mr M has also said 
he asked the police if he could see the footage of him at the scene of the accident 
involving his car, but they said his case was closed and couldnt be re-opened. He feels 
the claim was not dealt with at all well by Markerstudy and that they were very 
unprofessional. Mr M has also mentioned the personalised number plate he lost when his 
car was sold was very important to him and he can never get it back. 
Mr M has also pointed out that when he applied for a policy he found out Markerstudy had 
recorded him as making a claim, despite the fact it turned his claim down. Hed like this 
removed from his record, as its impacting the cost of car insurance for him. 
Markerstudy hasnt provided any more evidence. However, it has said it accepts my 
award of £1,000 for the financial loss as a result of it allowing Mr Ms car to be sold as 
salvage. Its correctly pointed out it will only have a further £838 to pay, as it has already 
paid Mr M £162 for this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr Ms comments about the incident giving rise to his claim. Its not appropriate for 
me to comment on the decision taken by the police in relation to this. All I can consider is 
whether, in light of the evidence available, Markerstudys decisions to decline his claim and 
cancel Mr Ms policy were reasonable. And I still think they were. There were a number of 
inconsistencies in Mr Ms statement. And the police told Markerstudy that they had a witness 
placing him at the scene of the accident his car was involved in, along with video footage of 
him with his car in a different area after the time he said hed parked it prior to it being stolen. 
I dont think Markerstudy could be expected to ignore this and the doubt this cast over what 
Mr M had said. I appreciate Mr M may have been frightened following the incident, but this 
doesnt alter my view that Markerstudy was entitled to conclude Mr M had made fraudulent 
statements in support of his claim. The terms of Mr Ms policy gave Markerstudy the right to 
reject his claim and cancel his policy. And these terms also meant Mr M was liable for the full 
premium. So I dont think Markerstudy had to give him a refund. I do appreciate Mr M was 
under the impression Markerstudy was going to pay his claim, but I cant see it told him at 
any point it would definitely be doing so.  
I also think it was reasonable for Markerstudy to record on its own system and any 
appropriate central databases that Mr M had made a claim. It would also be entitled to 
record anything it paid out for damage to the car Mr Ms car hit against this record. 
Therefore, I wont be telling Markerstudy to remove the record of the claim. 
I agree Markerstudy shouldnt have sold Mr Ms car or his number plate. This is why I said Id 
provisionally decided to make Markerstudy pay him over £1,500 in compensation. And, it 
remains my view that what I suggested is fair and reasonable overall.
Ive noted Markerstudys query on what Mr M would have got if hed sold his car through a 
salvage dealer. But  based on the evidence Ive seen, it sold at auction for £1,700 and the 
costs that would have needed to be deducted would have totalled around £700. So I think 
my estimate of £1,000 is fair and reasonable. Putting things right
As I explained in my provisional decision, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ms 
complaint is for Markerstudy to pay him the amounts I set out in it, as repeated above. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint against Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited and award the following to him:
£300 as compensation for distress and inconvenience, if Markerstudy hasnt paid 
this already.
£298.87 as compensation for the loss of the private number plate.
A further £838 as compensation for the financial loss as a result of it allowing 
his car to be sold as salvage.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman