DRN-1942697
The complaint
Mr S complains that Black Horse Limited trading as Black Horse Finance has unfairly 
recorded information about him at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr S applied for car finance through a dealership in July 2018. When Black Horse Finance 
reviewed his application, it found that he hadnt disclosed his full address history over a 
three-year period. And that there was adverse credit history linked to him at an address he 
hadnt told it about. It said that there was similar adverse information at CIFAS about him not 
disclosing his address history to other lenders. Black Horse Finance didnt provide finance 
and registered the information about this application at CIFAS. Mr S says that this is all a 
mistake and that he wasnt asked about his previous address history.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the 
dealership had no reason not to input what Mr S had said about his address. At the time of 
the application Mr S had only lived at his then address for two years and not the four years 
recorded on the application. She thought that he might not have been asked about previous 
addresses as he claimed because he had given false information about his address history. 
Black Horse Finance had said it wanted to look at the previous three years address history. 
She considered that as Mr S was aware of the adverse credit information at his other 
address he had an incentive to conceal this. The information he had provided to this service 
about his other complaints indicates that other businesses had reported him to CIFAS for 
similar matters. And it wasnt plausible that this could be a simple mistake.
Black Horse Finance had further explained that its checks also revealed that the income    
Mr S claimed to receive wasnt supported by other information. And that it discovered the 
first and last name of Mr S had been switched in the application creating an alias.
Mr S didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said he didnt have any 
further information to provide. He has explained that he expected Black Horse Finance to 
make checks and didnt believe he was falsifying information. He thought we should be 
investigating what the dealership had done. Mr S thinks that the investigation into what 
happened has been one sided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The standard for adding a marker to CIFAS is a high one. Black Horse Finance needs to 
have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it has reasonable grounds to believe 
that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the evidence would 
support this being reported to the authorities.
Mr S has submitted a number of complaints to us which we are deciding on separately. But 
as part of the information hes submitted hes shown that there are other similar CIFAS 
markers made by businesses who have said he has given an incomplete address history.
I agree with what our investigator has said here. If this were a case of only a few months 
difference in address history then I might think that this had been a genuine error. But Mr S 
was recorded as saying he had lived at his then address for four years - twice as long as he 
had done. And there was adverse credit information recorded at his previous address. Im 
struggling to find it most likely that the dealership recorded his address history wrongly and 
failed to make sure it had the three years history needed. And Mr S hasnt in my view given 
a satisfactory explanation for there being a significant discrepancy when his income was 
checked or of why his first and last name were switched around. I think it was in the 
dealerships interest to record what Mr S had told it. 
Taking this into account I am satisfied on balance that Mr S gave false information to try and 
obtain finance. So, Im thinking about whether Black Horse Finance was fair in reporting this 
information to CIFAS based on the evidence it had and the investigation it carried out. 
CIFAS guidance says that Black Horse Finance must have carried out checks of sufficient 
depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This essentially means that Black Horse 
Finance needs to have enough information to make a formal report to the police. And that 
any filling should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or 
financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion.
Having reviewed the account given by Mr S and the evidence Black Horse Finance has 
provided Im satisfied that Black Horse Finance had sufficient evidence to report this to 
CIFAS. In coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr S didnt disclose full and correct information as set out above as part of his 
application.
- The most likely explanation is that he did this to help him obtain credit.
- Black Horse Finance had grounds to believe that Mr S had attempted to obtain credit 
fraudulently.
So, I understand he will be disappointed when I say that I dont have a reasonable basis to 
require Black Horse Finance to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman