DRN-2382873
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2003. The policy was added to 
Mr Ds Barclaycard account when he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with our adjudicator and asked 
for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
Mr D mainly complained that given his significant sick pay entitlements, he didnt need an 
insurance policy to protect his credit card repayments. He also said that if the costs versus 
benefits, as well as the optionality, of the policy been made clear to him, its clear that he 
would have declined PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint for the following reasons.
I think that Barclays made Mr D aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. 
I say this because Mr D made it clear on the application form he completed that he wanted 
to take out the policy by ticking to have PPI. Mr D left blank the tick box for another account 
feature offered that he didnt take out. So I think Mr D wouldve understood that he couldve 
left the PPI tick box blank as well if he hadnt wanted to have the cover. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. But Ive looked carefully at whether it gave him enough clear information so he could 
decide for himself if he wanted to have PPI. 
And if this didnt happen, Ive thought about what difference, if any, this makes overall.
Mr D was eligible for the policy. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover but it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Mr Ds case when he took out his Barclaycard. 
So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve 
affected his decision to take it out. 
Mr D had good sick pay entitlement through work. He told us that he wouldve had full sick 
pay for 6 months followed by 6 months' half pay from his employer. 
But the policy wouldve paid more than his minimum credit card repayments for up to 12 
months per claim in the event of accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits. 
As Mr D mightve also had some additional costs if he was too unwell to go back to work or 
disabled, I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially as hed only 
have got half his usual pay after 6 months off work. 
And the policy wouldve also protected Mr Ds credit card repayments if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.
The policy couldve cleared all the outstanding balance on his Barclaycard if he claimed for 
the full 12 months. 
Mr D doesnt appear to have had any significant other means he couldve relied on to pay his 
Barclaycard if he wasnt working. 
So I think the policy offered him useful cover. 
I dont think Barclays properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might pay out 
if Mr D made a claim. 
But even if he hadnt fully appreciated how much PPI would actually cost on a month to 
month basis, Mr D chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he seems to 
have wanted it. 
The policy appears to have been affordable for him when he took it out  and he couldve 
cancelled it at any time if his circumstances changed or he didnt want to keep paying for it.
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered him, I think it unlikely Mr D wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think hed still have taken out the policy.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mr D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium
I think that is fair in this case.
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman