DRN-4449718
The complaint
Mrs S, Mr S and Mrs S1 complain that Rock Insurance Services Limited wrongly applied a 
discount code to the policy price when they bought a travel insurance policy from it. They 
also complain about Rocks service. Mrs S and Mrs S1 are represented by Mr S in this 
complaint.
What happened
Mr S bought a travel insurance policy for himself, Mrs S and Mrs S1 through Rock using a 
10% discount code on the cost of the policy. 
Mrs S, Mr S and Mrs S1 complain that the price they had to pay for the policy was higher 
than expected as the full 10% discount hadnt been applied. The insurance price quoted to 
Mr S was £434.45 and the final price he had to pay on 9 February 2023 was £415.16, which 
meant 4.5% discount was applied. They also complain about Rocks delays in responding to 
their complaint about the discount. They want the full discount refunded and compensation 
for Mr S inconvenience and stress in chasing Rock to respond to their complaint.
After Mrs S, Mr S and Mrs S1 complained to us Rock emailed Mr S a response to the 
complaint. Rock said it had correctly applied the discount at the policy sale as the discount 
only applied to the basic travel insurance price, not the extra medical screening cover in the 
travel policy, and thered been medical screening for Mr S and Mrs S. Rock accepted it 
delayed in responding to the complaint and offered £25 to acknowledge the inconvenience 
caused.
Mr S said it wasnt clear in the information hed seen before or at the point of buying the 
policy that the 10% discount to the price excluded the medical screening cover.
Our investigator asked Rock for the terms and conditions for the discount code and for 
screenshots of the policy purchase process to see how the discount terms were set out to 
Mr S. 
Rock didnt respond so our investigator recommended Rock pay Mrs S, Mr S and Mrs S1 
£24.16, which is the difference between the policy price they paid and the total quoted price 
less 10%, plus interest.
Our investigator said our service couldnt consider Mrs S, Mr S and Mrs S1s concerns about 
Rocks delay in responding to their complaint so she couldnt comment on whether its offer 
of £25 compensation was fair. 
Rock didnt respond to our investigators recommendation. Mrs S, Mr S and Mrs S1 
accepted the recommendation. 
Before I made a decision we contacted Mrs S, Mr S and Mrs S1 to say I thought I could 
consider their complaint about Rocks delay in handling their complaint. Separate from 
whether Rock should pay them the full discount amount on the policy price, I currently 
thought Rocks offer of £25 compensation for Mr S inconvenience due to its delay was a fair 
amount. I understood they were content with that offer and asked for their comments.
Mrs S, Mr S and Mrs S1 said the settlement value they received had to be close to what our 
investigator had already suggested, approximately £50. They emphasised Mr S had tried to 
resolve the complaint amicably but Rock hadnt responded until they complained to us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rock arranges and administers the insurance policy Mrs S, Mr S and Mrs S1 bought. The 
policy certificate doesnt say that Rock was arranging the policy as an agent for the insurer. 
So Im satisfed that Rock is the relevant business for this complaint to be about.
Our investigator asked Rock to provide its information about this complaint several months 
ago but Rock hasnt responded to any of the chasing emails we sent it. I think Rock has had 
a reasonable amount of time to provide the information and its fair for me to make a 
decision on the evidence I have.
Rock says it correctly applied the 10% discount only to the basic travel element of the policy, 
not the cost of medical screening cover for Mrs S1 and Mr S, so the £415.16 paid was 
correct.
But Rock hasnt provided any evidence that the terms of the discount said the 10% discount 
only applied to the basic travel element of the policy. Even if the terms did say so, Rock 
hasnt provided any evidence that the terms were clearly communicated to Mr S before or 
during the policy sale process. Mr S says he wasnt told the 10% discount didnt apply to the 
whole cost of the policy and Ive seen no evidence that he should have reasonably been 
aware that the 10% discount only applied to the basic travel element of the policy.
Ive seen no evidence that Rock acted fairly and reasonably when it applied the 10% 
discount only to the basic travel element of the policy price. 
The insurance price before discount quoted to Mr S was £434.45. 10% is £43.44 so from 
what Ive seen Mr S reasonably understood the final price would be £391. I think Rock 
should pay Mrs S, Mr S and Mrs S1 £24.16. Thats the difference between the price actually 
paid (£415.16) and the price the policy would have been if the 10% discount had been 
applied to the total quoted price (£391). Rock should add interest as Ive detailed below.
I think I can consider whether Rocks offer of £25 compensation for Mr S inconvenience due 
to its delay in responding to the complaint was fair. Thats because the relevant rules which 
set out what we can and cant consider mean we can consider a consumers complaint if it 
relates to the continuation of the financial service in question, or how a firm administered its 
business in relation to that service. And I think Mrs S, Mr S and Mrs S1s complaint about 
Rocks delay in responding to their complaint about how it arranged insurance is a complaint 
we can consider. 
Ive taken into account Mrs S, Mrs S and Mrs S1s comments and I think Rocks offer of £25 
compensation for Mr S inconvenience and stress in chasing Rock to respond to their 
complaint was fair. Rock should pay that compensation in addition to the £24.16 plus 
interest, which will give them the approximately £50 they said they expected and accepted.Putting things right
Rock must pay Mrs S, Mr S and Mrs S1 £24.16 plus interest as Ive detailed below and £25 
compensation for Mr S inconvenience due to its poor service.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Rock Insurance Services Limited to pay Mrs S, Mr S and 
Mrs S1:
£24.16 plus interest* at 8% simple a year from 9 February 2023 to the date the 
outstanding payment is made, and
£25 compensation for Mr S inconvenience due to its poor service (as it had offered).
*If Rock Insurance Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs S, Mr S and Mrs S1 how much its 
taken off. It should also give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S, Mr S and 
Mrs S1 to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman