DRN-3546343
The complaint
Ms R complains through her representative that AvantCredit lent her money on a high cost 
loan which she was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
AvantCredit provided Ms R with a loan for £500 on 15 July 2015, repayable at the rate of 
around £21 a month over 60 months.
She complained through her representative that she couldnt afford the loan and that it had 
affected her mental health. The loan has been fully repaid.
AvantCredit said it had carried all the necessary verification checks of Ms Rs income and 
credit and assessed that she could afford the loan repayments.
Our adjudicator said that taking into account her credit commitments and outgoings, with the 
new loan instalment Ms R would have had a negative disposable income.
AvantCredit disagreed, pointing out that Ms R put a figure in her application for utility 
payments, so the figures in the credit check in relation to those utilities should be discounted, 
which would have left her with a monthly disposable income of around £116. It also asserted 
that it would expect that Ms R included some if not all her credit expenses in the total 
expense figure, so it believes she would have much more income available to her. She also 
paid back the loan on time, the only delayed payments being due to her debit card being 
stolen and the late payment of wages.
Our adjudicator pointed out that the arrears in utility payments were included as credit 
commitments, so would be payable on top of her normal payments.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms R 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms R would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Rs ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that AvantCredit had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms R undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms R. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Here the loan was for a modest amount with a small monthly payment albeit over a long 
period. Ms R did have quite a low income of about £1,094 a month. So AvantCredits 
assessment should have taken those matters into account.
There is limited information available concerning what AvantCredit said at the time of the 
application. In particular no full credit check was available, but I have seen AvantCredits list 
of Ms Rs credit commitments, which includes monthly payments of £63 and £56 
respectively for electricity and gas. Ms Rs application also lists a payment of £150 for 
utilities. AvantCredit argues that that figure includes the amount listed in the credit 
commitments, so the figure of £119 should be added back in to calculate her disposable 
income.
As Ive said, the information on this is limited. But payments for utilities dont usually appear 
as part of a consumers credit commitments, so it appears to me to be likely that they appear 
there as Ms R was in arrears with her utility payments, In those circumstances, without any 
other information available, I have to conclude that the arrears payments were in addition to 
the figure for utilities set out in her application. So taking away £119 from the assessed 
disposable income of around £116 leaves a negative figure. So the loan was unlikely to be 
affordable.
In respect of AvantCredits argument that Ms R included her credit commitments in her outgoings, looking at the figures I doubt that. Her outgoings, apart from credit commitments 
were listed as £780, broken down as to £300 Housing Costs, £80 Council Tax, £150 utilities 
and £250 other. No figure was listed for food which would have presumably taken up the 
bulk of that other payment. Im not persuaded that Ms R had any income available to pay 
the loan, despite its low monthly instalment figure.
So I dont think that AvantCredit made affair lending decision.
Putting things right
Ms R has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think AvantCredit should refund all 
interest and charges as follows:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Ms R as payments towards the capital amount of £500.
If Ms R has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information where appropriate about the loan from Ms Rs credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Ms R a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman