DRN-4406346
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has failed to refund £150,000 they 
say they lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. But in summary, Mr 
and Mrs B sold a house and had some excess funds remaining. Mr and Mrs B said that they 
were encouraged by Lloyds to invest this money. Mr B found a company called WSCN1 
Limited which was a real estate company. Mr B hired a lawyer to research this company and 
visited the CEO of the company in Dubai. Subsequently to this Mr and Mrs B issued a 
cheque of £150,000 to WSCN1 Limited.
 
Mr and Mrs B were promised payments from WSCN1 Limited, but after just over a year the 
payments stopped and they did not receive anything further. 
Mr and Mrs B raised a complaint with Lloyds in May 2023 as they believe that Lloyds should 
refund them the money they lost from the investment. Lloyds declined to do this.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and they did not think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong. Mr and Mrs B disagreed and therefore their complaint has been passed to 
me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
The relevant regulations and industry guidance makes it clear that banks have a duty to 
protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. But the 
obligation to warn customers of the risk of such financial harm will only reasonably have 
been engaged if there were sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee was a fraudster; 
meaning that Lloyds could have delayed the payment(s) while concerns about the payee 
were discussed with Mr and Mrs B.
So, I would need to be satisfied that there were concerns that WSCN1 Limited was operating 
a scam when Mr and Mrs B issued the cheque of £150,000 in order to expect Lloyds to have 
done anything further here. Ive consulted the official organisations that publish warnings 
about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad, including the Investor Alerts Portal of 
the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), as well as the FCAs 
own warning list. These watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe 
that there were no warnings about WSCN1 Limited at the time Mr and Mrs B issued their 
cheque. I should also add that even now there are no official warnings about this company.
At the time Mr and Mrs B made their payment, WSCN1 Limited seem to have been a 
legitimate company. So I cant see that Lloyds should have been aware that it was operating 
fraudulently when the cheque was issued. Rather, Lloyds at the time would only have known 
that Mr and Mrs Bs money went to a business that appeared to be operating legitimately at 
the time. 
Overall Im not persuaded that there was any reason for Lloyds to have been aware that 
WSCN1 Limited was fraudulent or operating a scam at the time of the payment. As a result, 
Lloydss duty to intervene wasnt triggered. Therefore, I dont consider the bank acted 
unfairly by preventing or failing to intervene in the cheque being cleared.
I should also say for the sake of completeness, that even had Lloyds intervened (Although I 
dont think it needed to) and questioned Mr and Mrs B about the transaction, I dont think it 
would have altered their decision to invest in WSCN1 Limited. I say this because they had 
done their own research in WSCN1 Limited including hiring a lawyer. So I dont think a 
general warning from Lloyds would have stopped Mr and Mrs B from investing.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds ought to have done anything to recover the funds 
after Mr and Mrs B reported their loss. Mr and Mrs B didnt dispute the payment with Lloyds 
until 2023. Given WSCN1 Limited has entered receivership, it would be highly unlikely that 
the bank could have recovered any funds by that point, particularly given it was around four 
years after the initial payment had been made. Lloyds also wouldnt have been under any 
obligation to consider refunding the payment under the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code either, given the payment was made before the Code came into force (and the 
code doesnt apply to cheques either).
I accept, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr and Mrs B may now think that WSCN1 Limited may 
not have been operating correctly. But Lloyds was not to have known that at the time, so I 
dont think it did anything wrong in allowing the cheque in question to be paid.
I note Mr and Mrs B comments that they were not experienced investors and they would not 
have invested had they not been told to by Lloyds staff members. But the investment was 
discovered by Mr B it was not recommended by Lloyds, so I cant hold Lloyds because Mr 
and Mrs B chose to invest in a company that was unrelated to Lloyds.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B, and Im sorry to hear 
they have lost a significant amount of money. However, I am only able to ask Lloyds to 
refund the money Mr and Mrs B lost if Lloyds did something wrong. In this instance, I cant 
say that it did. So, I do not consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold Lloyds liable for 
their loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman