DRN-2281889
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the administration of a whole of life policy. He has said he didnt 
receive letters from Aviva Life & Pensions (UK) Limited (Aviva) informing him of a failed 
review which in turn caused the policy to lapse. He feels that Aviva didnt do all it should 
have to contact him.
What happened
Mr G took out a whole of life policy with Aviva in 1993. The policy also provided him with 
critical illness cover. The sum assured of the policy was £100,0000 and Aviva has confirmed 
it was reviewed regularly in line with its terms and conditions to ensure the premiums being 
paid into the policy were enough to maintain the sum assured.
From 2013 Mr G instructed Aviva that he would be paying only the minimum amount to 
maintain the sum assured.
In 2016 Mr G took a job in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). He has confirmed that he told 
Aviva of this change and provided the relevant information about his new postal address and 
telephone number.
In 2018 Aviva reviewed the policy as normal but this time it failed the review. This meant the 
level of premiums Mr G had been paying were not enough to maintain the sum assured at 
£100,000. In the letter explaining this to Mr G Aviva also confirmed that at that point in time 
the policy had a negative value because he hadnt increased his premiums in the past. Aviva 
also explained that Mr G would have to increase the level of premiums he was paying or the 
policy would lapse. This letter asked Mr G to respond within thirty days to confirm he 
accepted the increase in premiums. It also stated that if Mr G didnt respond the policy would 
lapse.
On 5 Dec 2018, having not received anything from Mr G, Aviva lapsed the policy and 
confirmed this in writing to Mr G in the UAE.
In August 2019 Mr G unfortunately suffered a heart attack and subsequently tried to claim 
under the critical illness element of the policy. It was at this point that Mr G says he first 
became aware the policy had been lapsed almost a year earlier.
Mr G has said that he had never received any letters about the policy while he was living in 
the UAE. He thinks that Aviva should have emailed him or telephoned him with the 
information about his policy. He also feels Aviva should have just increased the level of 
premiums being taken from him regardless of whether he had authorised this or not.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. He 
was of the view that there was no reason why the letters wouldnt have reached Mr G in the 
UAE but if they didnt Aviva couldnt be held responsible for this. He felt the addresses were 
correct enough for the letters to reach Mr G and that overall Aviva had administered the 
policy correctly and had done all it could in light of its obligations to inform Mr G of the status 
of the policy.
Mr G didnt agree with the assessment and remained adamant that Aviva hadnt acted 
correctly or that it did all it could have to contact him.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the complaint can be upheld.
I fully appreciate the importance of this type of policy and I regard the benefits provided as 
valuable, so I understand why Mr G feels so strongly about what has happened. However, 
Mr G must understand that I can only uphold the complaint if I think Aviva has acted 
incorrectly and I must decide this from an impartial viewpoint.
I have looked at the letters Aviva sent Mr G in 2018 informing him of the failed review of the 
policy and I am satisfied that the addresses on them are correct. While Mr G has said there 
were typographical errors in the address on the letters and UAE wasnt noted as part of the 
address, I dont think this would have affected the letters or impacted on them reaching the 
correct destination. The typographical error was minor and the addresses on the letters did 
state the country as being Dubai which is correct and would have been enough for the 
addresses to be valid. So, I dont think Aviva did anything in wrong in the way it addressed 
the letters and I see no reason why the letters wouldnt have been correctly delivered.
Aviva has confirmed that it didnt receive any returned post or anything that marked the 
letters as undeliverable, so I think its reasonable Aviva had no reason to think there had 
been a problem in the letters getting to where they had to. I dont think Aviva did anything 
wrong in not realising the letters hadnt been received by Mr G and or in taking his lack of 
response as him confirming the policy could lapse.
I agree that sending an email or calling Mr G would have ensured that he would have been 
informed about the required changes to his policy, but Aviva isnt obligated to do this. 
Telephoning each customer just isnt practical for a company the size of Aviva to do and its 
procedures are to send letters such as this by post which I dont think is unreasonable. 
I appreciate emails are becoming more common, but I cant direct Aviva to change any 
internal processes it has. Its also very rare for any business to send these types of standard 
letters by tracked delivery or registered post. Again, Aviva isnt obligated to do this, and this 
type of postal method is really only reserved for valuable/legal documents.
I know Mr G feels Aviva should have automatically increased the level of premiums whether 
it had received a response from Mr G or not but this just isnt something Aviva could have 
done  agreement from the payee would always have to be granted before any such 
changes could be made and it would have been very wrong for Aviva to have made this 
unilateral decision.
Overall while I can understand how Mr G feels about this situation and how disappointed he 
is, I havent seen anything that leads me to safely conclude that Aviva did anything wrong in 
how it sent the letters to Mr G or in lapsing the policy. I am aware Aviva offered to reinstate 
the policy but gave no guarantee of a payment due to Mr Gs recent health problems at that 
time but in my view this isnt unreasonable. And given it has been three years since the 
policy was lapsed its not unusual the policy can no longer be reinstated.
My final decisionMy final decision is I dont uphold the complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman