DRN-3225738
The complaint
Mr B complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) irresponsibly 
provided him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr B with a loan as follows:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly repayment Date repaid
6/12/2019 £2,000 24 months £123.06 13/10/2020
When Mr B complained to 118 118 Money it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. After completing her 
investigation, ultimately she didnt think that 118 118 Money had done anything wrong when 
it provided the loan. Our adjudicator explained why she was recommending that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators view. He mainly said that the loan was paid to him 
within minutes after he applied so no proper checks can have been done in that time. He 
also told us he wasnt asked to provide any proof of income or send in bank statements. Mr 
B believes that if more checks had been done it wouldve been obvious that the loan should 
not have been provided.
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint so it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law.
Id like to reassure Mr B that I've looked at the complaint afresh and independently reviewed 
all the available information, including what Mr B said in response to our adjudicators view. 
Having done so, I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way.
118 118 Money gathered some information from Mr B about his income and expenses 
before it agreed the loan. It completed income verification with a third party and checked Mr 
Bs credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history.
I appreciate that the whole process might have seemed very quick to Mr B. But the lender 
had online checking systems in place so customers were able to get quick lending decisions.
The credit checks 118 118 Money carried out showed that Mr B wasnt involved in any sort 
of arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. He had no active county 
court judgements registered and no significant recent defaults on his record.
I think its fair to say that all the information 118 118 Money had gathered tended to suggest 
that Mr B seemed to be managing his credit without any signs that he had a serious debt 
problem. Whilst the credit checks 118 118 Money obtained showed that Mr B had previously 
had some money problems, and he was close to the limit of his available credit, the 
repayments on his active accounts were up to date and it looked like hed only taken out one 
loan in the last 6 months. It wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type of lending 
to have other debt  and sometimes even an impaired credit history. And these wouldnt 
necessarily be fair reasons not to lend.
I dont think the amount of debt shown on Mr Bs credit checks was excessive having regard 
to his income or that anything else revealed in the credit checks 118 118 Money carried out 
was enough for me to say that a responsible lender shouldve realised it needed to find out 
more before lending or that it should have refused the loan application altogether.
Mr B says 118 118 Money shouldve known he was in financial difficulties at the time it lent 
to him and hes sent us information, including payslips and bank statements, to support what 
he says. But Id expect 118 118 Money to decide Mr Bs lending application based on the 
information it was reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. I dont think it was unreasonable 
for 118 118 Money to lend here  especially as there wasnt anything obvious, in the 
information it had, to suggest Mr B wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way.
The loan appeared to be affordable looking at Mr Bs income and expenditure. And I dont 
think proportionate checks wouldve required 118 118 Money to probe any more deeply into 
Mr Bs finances or ask Mr B to prove what he was declaring (by requiring him to send in his 
bank statements for instance) or check other information sources to verify what he had told 
the lender (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances.
I accept that Mr Bs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information 118 118 Money obtained. But in order to
uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. In this case, I 
dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to Mr B.
And I havent seen enough to make me think that 118 118 Money acted towards Mr B in any 
other way that wasnt fair and reasonable.
For these reasons, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this is a disappointing 
outcome for Mr B but hope setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive 
reached my conclusions. Mr B has repaid this loan, but if he would like help to manage his spending theres more information about how to get free debt advice and other support on 
our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman