DRN-2047255
The complaint
Mr H and Miss O complain that Hanley Economic Building Society wont agree to remove 
Miss O from their joint mortgage. In addition Mr H complains that Hanley wont release the 
last stage of the mortgage funds.
What happened
Mr H and Miss O took out a self-build mortgage with Hanley. This is a special type of 
mortgage for borrowers who are building their own property, rather than buying a complete 
property. It works by releasing the mortgage funds in stages  so that the borrowers can 
fund the works as they go, but the lender is protected by not lending the whole funds at the 
start before any work is done.
Before the property was completed, Mr H and Miss O separated, and Mr H carried on with 
the project alone. He applied to remove Miss O from the mortgage, but Hanley said it wasnt 
affordable for him to take it over on his own, as the original lending decision was based on 
both their income.
Several months later, Mr H applied again. This time Hanley said it wouldnt agree to remove 
Miss O because the mortgage condition requiring the property to be completed within two 
years hadnt been complied with. More than two years had passed, and the property still 
hadnt been completed.
Mr H complained. He said it wasnt fair. He and Miss O had separated and needed to move 
on with their own lives. Miss O joined the complaint and explained why she also wanted to 
move on, and that she had no further interest in the mortgage or the property. 
Mr H also complained that Hanley required him to pay a £1,500 insurance fee before it 
would release the last stage of the funds.
Hanley said that the first application was refused because it didnt think the mortgage was 
affordable. It had lent based on two incomes, and based on Mr Hs alone the loan amount 
was around 5.5 times his income, which was more than it was prepared to accept. Hanley 
said the second application was refused because, by then, Mr H was in breach of the terms 
of the mortgage by not having finished the project in time. It would be prepared to 
reconsider, but not before completion. 
Hanley said its understanding of a conversation with Mr H was that he didnt need the last 
stage of the funds to finish. But in any case, it couldnt release them until he paid the fee. 
When the mortgage was taken out, it came with a three-year insurance policy covering the 
building stage. As more than three years had passed, the policy had expired. So it needed to 
be extended, and Mr H would have to pay that cost.
Mr H said he refused to pay it  there was plenty of equity in the property, so he didnt think 
insurance was necessary.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so both Mr H and Miss O asked 
for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the mortgage was taken out, Hanley agreed to it based on both Mr H and Miss O 
being party to it. For Mr H to take it over on his own, that would mean that instead of there 
being two incomes available, there would be one. So its reasonable for Hanley to think 
about whether it would be affordable for Mr H alone.
Mr H doesnt agree that it wasnt affordable. But Hanley says the mortgage was well over 
five times his income. 
Mr H says that he could have sold assets and cleared some debts to pass an affordability 
assessment  if Hanley told him what he needed to do. But that wouldnt have increased his 
income. If Mr H is right that it needed lifestyle changes to make it affordable, that means it 
wasnt based on his circumstances at the time of the application.
I think it was reasonable for Hanley to be concerned about this. The rules of mortgage 
regulation say that an affordability assessment is required when adding or removing a 
borrower. The affordability assessment required is detailed and strict. And while a lender can 
disregard the assessment if doing so is clearly in the borrowers best interests, Im not 
persuaded that was the case here. It would clearly be in Miss Os best interests to allow her 
to move on with her life now she has no interest in the mortgage or property. But Im not 
persuaded it would be clearly in Mr Hs best interests to switch the mortgage over when 
there are considerable doubts over whether it was affordable.
Im therefore satisfied that Hanley acted fairly in refusing the first application. 
As for the second application, I think it acted fairly here too. By this time, more than two 
years had passed since the mortgage was taken out. It was a condition in the mortgage offer 
that the build be completed and signed off within two years. And given that the longer the 
project went on for, the higher the risk to Hanley, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to 
say it wouldnt make any changes until Mr H complied with what hed agreed to do. Theres 
nothing to stop a further application being made once the project is completed.
Finally, theres the issue of the final drawdown. Its standard in mortgages of this type for 
there to be insurance protecting the lender until the property is finished. The land and 
property are both worth less, and harder to sell, before then. The insurance expired after 
three years. It could be renewed, but that would cost £1,500. The terms and conditions Mr H 
agreed to say this could be charged if the insurance had to be renewed. And so its not 
unfair for Hanley to expect this to happen before it will release the funds.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss O 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman