DRN-4495542
Complaint
Miss L has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to her. She says that the loan was irresponsibly lent.
Background
118 118 Money provided Miss L with a loan for £3,000.00 in March 2019. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £172.24.
I understand that Miss L may also have taken out a credit card with 118 118 Money. But 
weve only been asked to look at a complaint about Miss Ls loan and this decision is only 
considering whether 118 118 Money acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss L when 
providing her with a loan in March 2019.
One of our investigators reviewed what Miss L and 118 118 Money had told us. And she 
thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss L unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Miss Ls complaint be upheld. 
Miss L disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ls complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ls complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss L could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money provided Miss L with a loan for £3,000.00 in March 2019. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £172.24. 118 118 Money says it agreed to Miss Ls 
application after she provided details of her monthly income and some information on her 
expenditure. 
It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out and all of 
this information showed Miss L could to comfortably make the repayments she was 
committing to. On the other hand, Miss L has said she was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss L and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that 118 118 Money has provided the output of Miss Ls 
application. 118 118 Money searches appear to show that Miss L had had historic difficulties 
with credit, as there were historic defaults recorded in her name. But Miss L didnt have any 
recent difficulties and her active commitments at the time were relatively well maintained. 
Crucially, according to the credit searches, Miss Ls unsecured debt total at the time of the 
application was low in comparison to her income too. 
However, as 118 118 Moneys searches appear to show that Miss L did have some previous 
difficulties with credit, I would have expected 118 118 Money to find out a bit more about 
Miss Ls actual living expenses before it decided to lend to her. After all, Miss L had 
previously proved unable to repay creditors and while the historic nature of the defaults 
meant that the defaults in themselves were not a reason not to lend in this instance bearing 
in mind the circumstances, I nonetheless think that 118 118 Money needed to have an idea 
of Miss Ls actual living expenses. 
That said, I dont think that obtaining further information on Miss Ls actual living costs would 
have made a difference to 118 118 Moneys decision to lend in this instance. I say this 
because the information Miss L has provided about her finances at the time appears to show 
that when her committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were 
deducted from her monthly income, she did have the funds, at the time at least, to 
sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept that Miss L says that her actual circumstances at the time were worse than what the 
information about his living costs shows. Having looked at the bank statements Miss L has 
provided the reasons for this are apparent. I also accept that if 118 118 Money had gone into 
the depth of checks Miss L appears to be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank 
statements  its possible, but by no means certain, it may have reached a different decision. 
But given the circumstances here, and what 118 118 Money needed to find out, I dont think 
that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into obtaining bank 
statements for Miss Ls account  especially as bank statements werent the only way that 
118 118 Money could find out about Miss Ls living expenses in the first place. And finding 
out about Miss Ls living expenses wont have led 118 118 Money to determine the loan 
payments to be unaffordable.  
Furthermore, as this was a first loan 118 118 Money was providing to Miss L and there 
wasnt a history of Miss L obtaining funds and then returning for more, Im satisfied that 118 
118 Money was reasonably entitled to believe that this loan was affordable Miss L. As this is 
the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to lend to       
Miss L  in my view, proportionate checks are more likely than not to have suggested that 
the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Miss L unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss L. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman