DRN-4323961
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money he lost to a scam.
What happened
Mr P fell victim to an investment scam that targeted victims through personal connections in 
the same geographical area. The scheme was seemingly operated by two individuals  V 
and K. K was a mutual friend of one of his close friends, whod already invested in the 
scheme. Mr P was aware of the apparent success of several of his friends investments for 
around a year before he decided to invest. 
Mr P was introduced to V and K in April 2021. They offered an investment opportunity in 
foreign exchange trading. V presented himself as a trader who, using certain strategies, 
could make significant profits.
Mr P says he looked up V online and could see that he appeared to be a successful trader. 
He had virtual meetings with both V and K. Mr P quizzed the two about the investment, but 
he says they were able to point to other people that had successfully received their 
investment back. Mr P says that he was able to confirm that another victim received regular 
returns from their investment. He says that he found V and K to be open and humble.
 
Mr P entered into an agreement with V and K on 7 May 2021. He paid an account held in the 
name of V £100,000.
Over the following few months he received copies of documents which appeared to show 
profitable trades taking place. He also received regular monthly statements. As his 
investment appeared to be doing very well, he invested a further £10,000 on 8 July 2021. V 
and K also said that theyd incorporated a new hedge fund  and showed Mr P apparent 
evidence of this. 
In September 2021, Mr P tried to withdraw his money but was met with excuses and delays. 
It became apparent that other people were in the same position as Mr P  he says that there 
were around 100 other investors (many who have been reimbursed by their banks). 
By the middle of 2022, after a series of broken promises by V, it became apparent that Mr P 
would not receive his investment back. 
He reported the matter to HSBC. It initially said that Mr P had a civil dispute with V. Later it 
said that he had fallen victim to a Ponzi scheme which arent covered under the provisions of 
the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) which 
requires it signatories (like HSBC) to refund victims of APP scams in all but a limited number 
of circumstances. After the matter was referred to our service, HSBC reviewed the complaint 
again. It said that it had met its obligations under the CRM Code, but Mr P should have 
taken more care. So, it continued to decline to reimburse him. 
One of our investigators didnt agree. They thought that the warning provided by HSBC 
hadnt been Effective as required by the CRM Code. They also thought that Mr P had held 
a reasonable basis for believing the investment to be legitimate. They pointed to the fact Mr 
P had been introduced to the scheme through a friend and had spoken to V for some time 
before investing. The investigator also wasnt convinced that the checks HSBC suggested 
Mr P should have carried out would have brought the scam to light. So, the investigator 
recommended that Mr P be refunded in full, as well as paid 8% simple interest from the date 
it declined his claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement. In addition, the 
Investigator recommended HSBC pay Mr P £250 compensation to reflect the significant 
impact of its refusal to reimburse him when he first brought the matter to its attention. 
 
HSBC didnt agree, in summary it said:
- There were very relevant parts of the warnings it provided, which should have 
impacted Mr Ps decision making. 
- The returns promised (10% a month) were too good to be true.
- Theres no evidence that any other investor had confirmed receiving their money 
back. 
- Mr P paid V money without any understanding of how he could access those funds.
- The fact the investment was sold to him as carrying no risk should have been a red 
flag.
- It did not dispute that Mr P believed the investment was real, but the test in the CRM 
Code was objective: what a reasonable person would have believed. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point under the relevant regulations and the terms of Mr Ps account is that he is 
responsible for transactions hes carried out himself. However, HSBC are signatories to the 
CRM Code and, taking into account regulators rules and guidance, codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, should have been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions to protect its customers from (among 
other things) financial harm from fraud. 
Ive first considered whether HSBC should refund Mr P under the provisions of the CRM 
Code. HSBC seek to rely on two of the exceptions to reimbursement:
- Mr P ignored an Effective Warning
- Mr P made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing that they were for 
genuine goods or services; and/or V was legitimate.
Did Mr P hold a reasonable basis for belief?
Ive considered this point carefully and having done so Ive decided that Mr P did have a 
reasonable basis for believing that the investment scheme was legitimate. 
In doing so, Ive taken into account that Mr P had a personal connection to K  he was not a 
completely unknown third party. I understand that many of the victims of this scam were from 
the same geographical area and its evident that personal connections were used to entice 
further victims into the scam. I can understand how this would have given the scheme an 
impression of being both somewhat exclusive and more trustworthy. 
Mr P says he also spoke to K and V at some length before investing. He says he asked 
questions of the two, particularly V, to understand the investment. That would likely have been reassuring for Mr P  he was dealing with real people and was confident that they were 
not hiding their true identities. 
Mr P says he was aware of the scheme and its apparent success for around a year before 
he made his investment. I understand he was quite a latecomer to the scheme and many 
other people, including several people he knew well had already invested by the time he 
became involved. 
It appears (and HSBC seems to accept) that the scheme was run as a Ponzi scheme  in 
which new investors money is (to some extent) used to repay existing investors. Mr P says 
friends were able to show him, not just the fake monthly statements and evidence of trades 
that V provided but their genuine bank statements showing withdrawals from the scheme. I 
have seen evidence that some payments from V were received by victims and this is 
consistent with what Id expect from a Ponzi scheme. So, Ive no reason to disbelieve what 
Mr P has said about this. I think that evidence, which seemed to demonstrate the success of 
the scheme, would have been very persuasive for Mr P. 
I accept there were elements of the scheme that ought to have caused Mr P to consider its 
legitimacy. The returns were very high and entirely unrealistic for a genuine investment, 
particularly one that apparently carried no risk. But the test in the CRM Code is not entirely 
objective, it allows me to take into account (among other things) Mr Ps characteristics. I 
suspect he may not have fully understood just how difficult it is to reliably generate profits 
from this type of trading and I think he must have been bamboozled by the claims of V. He 
also doesnt seem to have understood, through the compounding of interest, how quickly, if 
the scheme was genuine, his investment would have turned into a fortune. 
I suspect the contract contributed to the overall sense of the scheme being genuine  it was 
quite professional in appearance and gave the impression that V and K were willing to 
legally bind themselves to the commitments they were making. And, though I havent seen 
and heard all the correspondence between Mr P and V that led to the fraud, I have seen the 
considerable lengths by which V went to try and conceal the fraud after the event, which 
seems to have included forging various documents and correspondence, often in a highly 
convincing way. Its evident from Mr Ps testimony that some of those fraudulent documents 
(for example, apparent evidence of trades carried out on his friends behalf) played an 
important part in inducing Mr P to invest.
Ive given this matter careful consideration and I accept this is a finely balanced point, but I 
think Mr P did hold a reasonable basis for believing the investment scheme to be legitimate. 
In deciding that point, Ive put weight on the strong personal connection Mr P had to the 
scam, the fact he was quite a latecomer to the scheme, had witnessed those around him 
apparently successfully investing and that he doesnt appear to have any real understanding 
of the realities of the investment being offered. Against that backdrop I can understand why 
the concerning aspects of the scheme, particularly the guaranteed returns, didnt shake his 
belief in its legitimacy. 
Did Mr P ignore an Effective Warning?
In order for a warning to be Effective under the CRM Code it must, as a minimum, be 
understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific. 
Mr P made the £100,000 payment in branch. HSBC said that it gave him a warning. That 
warning consisted of asking a series of questions: 
-What is the amount of the payment?
- What is the reason for the payment?- Has anyone told you what reason to give?
- How did you get the payee details? For instance, did someone send them to you by 
letter, text or email. Or did they phone you or message you on social media?
- Has someone contacted you unexpectedly by phone, text or email about this 
payment?
- Has anybody told you how to answer our questions or asked you to mislead us in any 
way? This could include reasons for the payment or even the amount of the 
payments.
Its not entirely clear if each question was asked  the responses recorded by HSBC are 
fairly limited. HSBC just notes the purpose of the payment (recorded as investing in stocks), 
that the payee was known to the customers friend and that the shares will be held on 
friends name [sic]. Mr P wasnt investing in stocks, but without having heard the 
conversation he had, its difficult to know whether he accurately described the investment or 
not. The banks notes also say that Mr P was aware of the risks involved.
In addition to the above questions, there are also a series of additional questions that branch 
staff are supposed to ask. Its not clear whether they are supposed to ask these questions 
on every occasion or just where there is further concern. In this case, there isnt enough 
information recorded about the interaction to demonstrate that any of these additional 
questions were asked. 
As well as the questions, HSBC says it gave a further warning about investment scams. That 
warning consisted of three paragraphs  one relating to general investment fraud, one to 
pensions scams and another to cryptocurrency scams. Elements of the first and last 
paragraph were relevant to Mr P, but chiefly the first. That warning said:
Investment fraud typically involves a cold call from someone pretending to offer investments 
in schemes or products offering high returns. They are either worthless or dont exist. These 
often involve offering risky investment opportunities to inexperienced investors, who are 
unable to evaluate risk and cannot afford to lose their money. The Money Helper and FCA 
website provide more information.
The paragraph relating to cryptocurrency scams also mentions introducing friends or family 
with the false promise of greater profits.
While the warning (assuming it was given) does contain some relevant information (for 
example, mentioning high returns), it doesnt really cover off the risk of the circumstances 
that Mr P found himself in. 
HSBC are aware that investment scams take many forms, including Ponzi schemes such as 
this one. Had HSBC asked Mr P the series of additional questions referenced above and 
assuming hed answered those questions honestly, it ought to have been able to tailor its 
warning to his circumstances  highlighting the key risk factors  the dubious method of 
generating money, the risk-free returns, the unregulated nature of the scheme and the 
warning that no real weight could be put on the fact that other people had received returns.
 
The warning Mr P did see does little to address this risk, explain how scams of this nature 
work or even explain how to carry out necessary due diligence. Instead, the warning simply 
notes that inexperienced investors will be unable to evaluate the risk of the investment, but 
doesnt provide any information about how to do this. 
So, I dont think the warning was particularly impactful or specific and I dont think it was 
Effective as per the definition in the CRM Code. It follows that Mr P didnt ignore an Effective Warning and HSBC cannot rely on this exception to reimbursement under the 
CRM Code either. 
Mr P suggests that a better warning might have caused him to reconsider his investment and 
stopped him from going ahead altogether. While, as Ive pointed out, there were clearly 
concerning features of the scam, Mr Ps involvement with it was on the back of a strong 
personal recommendation. Its not clear to me that a better warning would have stopped Mr 
P from going ahead. But, in any case, the impact of this finding is limited to the date from 
which interest should be paid. Taking into account the uncertainty in any finding about 
whether a better warning would have prevented Mr Ps loss, I think HSBC should fairly and 
reasonably pay interest from the date it declined the claim under the CRM Code.
Turning to compensation, our investigator recommended HSBC pay Mr P £250 on the basis 
that it ought to have refunded him when he raised his claim. While I can see that HSBC 
addressed both the claim and complaint fairly promptly, it initially said that the matter wasnt 
covered under the CRM Code because he had a civil dispute with V and then, in its final 
response letter, it said he wouldnt be reimbursed because Mr P fell victim to a Ponzi 
scheme. That meant that it failed to consider Mr Ps claim under the CRM Code at that time 
and, I think, it should have done. Im aware that Mr P has been particularly badly affected by 
this scam and the loss of his funds. So, while I think the fraudsters are principally to blame 
for Mr Ps distress, I think the £250 compensation recommended by our investigator, fairly 
reflects the additional distress caused by HSBC. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc and instruct it to pay Mr P:
- The amount of the loss - £110,000, less any sums already recovered or returned 
- Interest at 8% simple per annum on that amount from the date HSBC declined to 
consider his claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement, less any tax 
lawfully deductible
- £250 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman