DRN-3474395
The complaint
Mr H complains that Cygnet Financial Services Limited (Cygnet) irresponsibly granted him 
a credit agreement that he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In October 2012, Mr H acquired a used car financed by an agreement secured by a bill of 
sale from Cygnet. Mr H was required to make 48 monthly repayments of £299.59. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £15,625.32.
Mr H says that Cygnet didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Cygnet didnt agree. It said that it carried 
out a thorough assessment. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Cygnet didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
As Mr H didnt agree his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. Before 
preparing this decision, I asked our adjudicator to press Cygnet for all information and 
evidence it has from when the agreement started. This has now been received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cygnet will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Cygnet hasnt been able to provide us with a copy of the credit check it completed. Ive 
therefore relied on a copy of the credit file supplied by Mr H. Whilst this doesnt give a full 
picture of all the accounts Mr H had open at the time, it gives a reasonable indication of what 
Cygnet would have seen. At the time of the application it doesnt show that Mr H had any 
missed payments, arrears or county court judgments. However, I cant say for sure that Mr H 
wasnt struggling financially. So I still think it would have been proportionate for Cygnet to 
have got a more thorough understanding of Mr Hs financial circumstances before lending 
than it seems have done in this case. 
I cant see that Cygnet verified Mr Gs income before approving the finance, although I see 
he had entered into previous agreements with them. Given the overall size of the borrowing, 
the monthly repayments and the term of the agreement, I think it would still have been 
proportionate for Cygnet to have done so to ensure it was affordable.
Ive also seen from its notes that Cygnet asked Mr H about his regular expenditure during 
the application. However, I think it would have been proportionate and reasonable for Cygnet 
to have verified this information - and I cant see that it did. I say this because Ive seen that 
Mr H had previously experienced financial difficulty and had been in a debt management 
plan. 
Ive gone on to consider what Cygnet would likely have found out if it had completed 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. Weve asked Mr H to provide us with 
evidence of his financial circumstances at the time the lending was taken out. However, 
whilst he provided us with a range of bank statements from 2008 to 2015, they are not 
complete, especially for the period of around the time Mr H entered into the agreement with 
Cygnet. So Im not able to say Ive seen enough information to fairly determine what 
proportionate checks would likely have shown Cygnet at the time. 
It follows that, as Mr H hasnt been able to demonstrate that the agreement was 
unaffordable, I cant reasonably conclude that Cygnet ought to have known he would 
struggle to make the repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that Cygnet acted unfairly in 
approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman