DRN-4475693
The complaint
Mr G complains that TIDE PLATFORM LTD, trading as Tide, wont refund the money he lost 
when he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In October 2022, Mr G received an email which appeared to be from his employer and asked 
him to help purchase some gifts for other members of staff. The email asked Mr G to 
message his employer on a mobile number it gave, which he did. Mr G was then asked to 
purchase a number of gift cards and send photos of the numbers from the back of the gift 
cards. And Mr G then made a number of payments from his Tide account to purchase gift 
cards, which Ive set out below:
Date Details Amount
4 October 2022 1st retailer £100
4 October 2022 1st retailer £100
4 October 2022 1st retailer £100
4 October 2022 1st retailer £200
4 October 2022 2nd retailer £200
4 October 2022 3rd retailer £100
4 October 2022 4th retailer £200
Unfortunately, we now know the email was from a scammer.
Mr G reported the scam to Tide and asked it to refund the money he had lost. Tide 
investigated but said he had authorised the payments and received the gift cards he had 
paid for. So it said it couldnt dispute the payments for him and didnt agree to refund the 
money he had lost. Mr G wasnt satisfied with Tides response, so referred a complaint to our 
service.
I sent Mr G and Tide a provisional decision on 19 October 2023, setting out why I wasnt 
intending to uphold this complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the customers account. And a customer will then be 
responsible for those transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Mr G authorised the payments. He accepts he made them 
himself to purchase the gift cards, as instructed to by the scammers. So while I recognise 
that he didnt intend the money to ultimately go to scammers, the starting position in law is 
that Tide was obliged to follow his instructions and process the payments. So Mr G isnt 
automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So Ive also thought about whether Tide did enough to try 
to keep Mr Gs account safe.
But none of the payments individually were for what Id consider to be a particularly large 
amount, or for amounts that were significantly larger than other payments made out of 
Mr Gs account in the previous months. The payments were also all made at well-known 
high street retailers, which wouldnt have looked unusual or suspicious to Tide.
And while the payments were all made within a very short time of each other, I dont think a 
suspicious pattern in the payments should have been obvious to Tide at any point or that 
Tide acted unreasonably in not identifying a suspicious pattern. The first four payments were 
all made to the same retailer but, because of the relatively low amounts of them, I dont think 
four payments was enough to expect Tide to identify a suspicious pattern. And the last three 
payments were all made to different retailers, which I think will have made any connection or 
pattern more difficult to identify.
So I think its reasonable that Tide didnt identify that Mr G could be at risk of financial harm 
as a result of the payments, and didnt intervene to ask any further questions before allowing 
them all to go through.
Ive also considered whether Tide did enough to try to recover the money Mr G lost. Once 
they have been notified of a scam, we expect businesses to take reasonable steps to try to 
recover any money their customers have lost  including making use of any available 
chargeback scheme.
A chargeback is a process by which card payments can be disputed with the merchant who 
took the payment  which in Mr Gs case is the retailers he bought the gift cards from. But it 
wasnt the merchants here that scammed Mr G. The retailers didnt do anything wrong and 
just sold him the gift cards as he requested. So I dont think its likely chargebacks would 
have been successful and so I dont think Tide has acted unreasonably in not carrying them 
out.
Any attempt Tide made to recover the money directly from the banks it was sent to would 
also likely have been unsuccessful, for the same reasons. The recovery attempt would have 
gone to the banks of the retailers, who hadnt done anything wrong.
And so I dont think anything we would reasonably have expected Tide to do would have 
recovered the money Mr G lost.
I sympathise with the position Mr G has found himself in. He has been the victim of a cruel 
scam and I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to him. But, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Tide has acted unreasonably or that anything I 
would reasonably have expected it to do would have prevented this scam or recovered the 
money he lost.
So I dont currently think it would be fair to require Tide to refund the money Mr G has lost.
I said Id consider anything further Mr G and Tide sent in following the provisional decision, 
provided it was received by the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G didnt respond to the provisional decision, and Tide replied to say it had nothing further 
to add. So as neither Mr G not Tide provided any further evidence or arguments, I still think 
the conclusions I set out in the provisional decision are correct, and for the same reasons.
I still think its reasonable Tide didnt identify that Mr G could be at risk of financial harm as a 
result of the payments made here, and didnt intervene to ask any further questions before 
allowing them all to go through. And I dont think anything we would reasonably have 
expected Tide to do would have recovered the money Mr G lost.
So I dont think it would be fair to require Tide to refund the money Mr G has lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman