DRN-2564839
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the settlement offered by AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) 
following a claim on her furniture warranty. Im only going to refer to AmTrust in my decision 
but Im talking about all agents working on its behalf.
What happened
Mrs R bought a warranty with AmTrust when she purchased a new table. In May 2020 she 
made a claim on the warranty as her table had been damaged. In July 2020 a technician 
attended to see if the damage could be repaired, but it couldnt be repaired.
 
AmTrust tried to replace the table. But the make had been discontinued. So AmTrust offered 
Mrs R a credit note for £849. But Mrs R says that the company who the credit note was with 
didnt have a suitable replacement. So AmTrust offered a cash settlement of £424.50 
instead.
Mrs R complained to AmTrust. She was unhappy that the cash settlement was half of the 
value of the credit note offered. She felt the terms and conditions of the policy werent clear 
that a cash settlement would be 50% of the reselection offer. She wanted a cash settlement 
of £849. AmTrust didnt uphold her complaint. So the complaint came to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt that AmTrust had treated Mrs R fairly 
under the terms of her policy. So this complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R is unhappy with the cash settlement offered by AmTrust. So I need to consider 
whether what it offered is fair and reasonable. 
The policy terms and conditions note the following:
If a repair cannot be achieved, we may choose to replace the damaged part. In the event of
this not being possible, [agent] may at its sole discretion provide a replacement product(s). 
Alternatively, [agent] may at its sole discretion settle the claim by a cash payment instead of 
a repair or replacement. Any cash settlement will be limited to the equivalent cost of repair or 
replacement by [agent].
In this case, the cost to AmTrust wouldve been £424.50.
I understand Mrs R is disappointed that the cash settlement amount is only half the face 
value of the credit note AmTrust offered. But I can see that AmTrust acted fairly and in line 
with the terms of the policy when it offered £424.50 as a cash settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman