DRN-2921423
The complaint
 Mr K complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) are pursuing him for two old 
debts.
What happened
 Mr K had two debts. In January 2012, a debt of £772.85 (debt A) was referred to a debt 
collection agency (DCA). In August 2014, a debt of £1,178.37 (debt B) was referred to a 
DCA. By September 2020, the balance of the debts was £772.85 and £959.80. In July 2020 
and October 2020, RBS wrote to Mr K about the two debts to say theyd been passed to 
another DCA. Mr K also had a mortgage with RBS which was repaid in April 2020.
Mr K complained. He said the debts should be written off. He paid in £5 a month to the 
second debt for a while. But RBS hadnt been in touch with him about the debts since 2011-
12. The letters he received in July 2020 and October 2020 were a surprise to him.
RBS said they were entitled to ask for repayment of the debts. On debt A, formal demand 
was made in November 2011 and transferred to their recoveries department. On debt B, 
theyd emailed him to say he should check the status of his accounts. They hadnt sent Mr K 
any correspondence about either of the debts until his mortgage had been repaid.
Mr K brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that as RBS hadnt contacted Mr K 
for more than six years, it wasnt reasonable that RBS, or their agents, pursue him for the 
debts. And because Mr K had spent a lot of time and effort to try to sort things out with RBS, 
they should also pay him compensation of £250.
RBS disagreed and asked that an ombudsman look at Mr Ks complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr Ks two debts were passed to RBS recoveries department in 2011; and 
then to debt collection agencies in January 2012 and August 2014. Mr K says hes heard 
nothing from RBS since 2011 - then and was surprised when they wrote to him about the 
two debts in July 2020 and October 2020. He did have a mortgage with RBS which was 
repaid in April 2020. RBS said that they didnt refer to Mr Ks unsecured debts while they 
were trying to get repayment of his mortgage. I dont think that is a valid argument  asking 
for the repayment of the mortgage is separate to the two other debts.
The relevant guidance here is in the FCAs handbook (CONC). In section 7.15.1 it says A 
debt is statute barred where the prescribed period within which a claim in relation to the debt 
may be brought expires. In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, the limitation period is 
generally six years in relation to debt. 
Section 7.15.4 says Notwithstanding that a debt may be recoverable , a firm must not 
attempt to recover a statute barred debt in England, Wales or Northern Ireland if the lender 
has not been in contact with the customer during the limitation period. 
Section 7.15.7 says It is misleading for a firm to suggest or state that a customer may be 
the subject of court action for the sum of the statute barred debt when the firm knows, or 
reasonably ought to know, that the relevant limitation period has expired. 
Section 7.15.8 says A firm must not continue to demand payment from a customer after the 
customer has stated that he will not be paying the debt because it is statute barred.
We asked RBS for evidence of any communications theyve sent to Mr K since 2011 to 2012 
 including statements, requests for repayment, copies of default notices and letters of 
demand. Unfortunately, they havent provided anything. And so  it looks as though the 
debts are statute barred. But  its only a court which can finally determine whether a debt is 
irrecoverable. But that said, the FCA handbook does say that RBS shouldnt attempt to 
recover the money or suggest to Mr K that they may go to court - if theyve not been in 
contact with Mr K for six years  which they havent. The FCA guidance also says that RBS 
shouldnt continue to ask for repayment after Mr K has said the debts are statute barred.
And so  while as Ive said  its only the courts that can decide that a debt isnt repayable, 
the regulators guidance says that RBS should now stop pursuing Mr K for the debts. Its not 
clear if the debts are on the books of the debt collection agency, or if theyre with RBS. But  
RBS should ensure they are dealt with in such a way that Mr K isnt pursued for repayment. 
Whether that leads to RBS writing the debts off in their books is a matter for them to decide. 
Its also not clear if the two debts appear on Mr Ks credit file. I assume they no longer 
appear, but of they do, RBS should remove them.
I can see that Mr K had spend a lot of time in 2020 in calling RBS to try to resolve matters. 
Also, having paid off the mortgage  he thought he was finally free of all his debts  and so 
to get letters from RBS after such a long time must have been upsetting for him. And so, he 
should be paid compensation of £250 for distress and anxiety. 
(continued)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc must:If needed, RBS should take the debts back onto their books  and stop pursuing Mr 
K for the outstanding debts of £772.85 and £959.80.
Pay compensation of £250.
If the debts are on Mr Ks credit file, remove them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman