DRN-3113508
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly turned down 
his business interruption insurance claim after his business, that Ill refer to as C, was forced 
to close due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr H held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. He claimed on his policy after
closing C as a result of the Governments actions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
RSA said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of an outbreak or
occurrence of any human contagious or infectious disease at the premises, C had closed as
a result of the Government Act in response to the national pandemic. As RSA thought C had
closed in response to the national lockdown, rather than because someone at its premises
had Covid-19, RSA turned down Mr Hs claim.
Mr H complained to RSA as he thought the policy should provide cover in the event of an
outbreak of a disease. He said the word or meant it could be a general outbreak or an
occurrence of a disease at the premises and if RSA intended both to be at the premises they 
should have used the word and instead. Mr H said one of Cs employees had been advised 
to self-isolate after their father became unwell with symptoms of Covid-19.
As RSA maintained they were correct in turning down Mr Hs claim, he brought his complaint 
to us. Mr H didnt agree with RSAs interpretation of the policy and was unhappy RSA hadnt 
specifically explained why they disagreed with his interpretation. Mr H said the general 
prevalence of Covid-19 meant that it was likely to have been at Cs premises and that two 
other employees had also needed to self-isolate after being in contact with the employee 
whose father had symptoms of Covid-19.
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
thought the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been an outbreak or 
occurrence at the premises. And she didnt think she was able to conclude that there had 
most likely been a case of Covid-19 at Cs premises.
Mr H made a number of detailed points in response and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. He still felt the use of the word or made the extension ambiguous and gave him a 
reasonable expectation of being covered. Mr H said that RSA had now changed the wording 
of the policy to specifically exclude pandemics, indicating that the previous policy either 
provided cover or was unclear. Mr H also said that the High Court had ruled that Covid-19 
occurred in England on 5 March 2020. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of detailed points about why he thinks the policy should provide 
cover. While I have considered all the points hes made, Im not going to address them all 
and will instead focus my decision on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on
Mr H and C. However, Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to
see if RSA have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the
policy when declining Mr Hs claim.
The relevant extension to the policy says:
The word Damage is extended to include closure of the Premises or part thereof
on the order or advice of any local or governmental authority as a result of an
outbreak or occurrence at the Premises of
A) Any human contagious or infectious disease other than Acquired Immune
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or any AIDS related condition, an outbreak of which
is required by law or stipulated by the governmental authority to be notified
B) Food or drink poisoning
C) Vermin or pests
D) Defective sanitation
I understand that Mr H thinks that this extension is triggered by either a wider outbreak of a
disease or an occurrence at Cs premises. However, I dont think that the policy does mean
this. I say that because when considering all of the points at A)-D) and not just A) it wouldnt
make linguistic sense to say the premises were closed due to an outbreak of defective
sanitation. I therefore think that the words outbreak or occurrence are used because some
of the events at the premises would be considered an outbreak whereas others would be
considered an occurrence. 
I dont think the wording of the extension is ambiguous and so I think that for the extension to 
provide cover there would need to be an outbreak or occurrence of a human contagious or 
infectious disease at Cs premises. I understand that RSA included a specific exclusion in a 
later policy, but I dont think that means the original wording was unclear. 
Ive therefore considered the information and evidence I have available to decide if there 
was most likely a case of Covid-19 at Cs premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic 
approach, and to consider whether other evidence can be provided that supports, on the 
balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As 
with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the claimant to demonstrate 
that theyve suffered a loss their policy covers.
I understand three of Cs employees self-isolated after one employees father became unwell 
with symptoms of Covid-19. However, I havent seen anything to indicate that any of these 
employees did have Covid-19 and it seems that they self-isolated as a precaution. Mr H said 
the employee was most likely to have been asymptomatic, but I havent seen anything apart from his comments to support that. So, Im not persuaded Mr H has shown it was most likely 
that the employees had Covid-19.
I also dont think the general prevalence of Covid-19 means that its most likely there was a 
case at Cs premises. While Covid-19 might have occurred in England on 5 March 2020, I 
dont think it follows that it also occurred at Cs premises at the same time and I also have to 
bear in mind that most people at that time didnt have Covid-19. I appreciate that Mr H took 
action to enable Cs employees to self-isolate to ensure that it was less likely someone 
would pass on Covid-19. However, I dont think Mr H has shown its most likely someone at 
Cs premises had Covid-19, so Im afraid I dont think this extension covers the 
circumstances of his claim. 
I understand Mr H is also unhappy that RSA didnt explain why they disagreed with his 
interpretation of the policy. While I understand it was frustrating for RSA not to have 
addressed this earlier, RSA did let Mr H know why his claim wasnt covered so Im not going 
to require RSA to do anything further. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr H was hoping for, but having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Mr Hs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman