DRN-1967449
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the mortgage advice he received from The On-Line Partnership 
Limited because he incurred an early repayment charge (ERC) when he repaid his existing 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr B was moving house. He had an existing mortgage of around £440,000.
The first mortgage The On-Line Partnership recommended was turned down by the lender 
for affordability reasons as the income evidence Mr B supplied didnt support the information 
hed declared, so the adviser looked at things again. From that he recommended a new 
mortgage of around £1,000,000 with a different lender.
Contracts had been exchanged for the sale and purchase, and completion was set for 
16 December when Mr B contacted the adviser to say hed discovered hed incur an ERC of 
around £8,750 on his existing mortgage.
The adviser went through some options, but Mr B decided as it was so close to completion 
hed continue as things were.
Unhappy with what had happened Mr B raised a complaint, which was rejected by the 
business.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B didnt agree and so its been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr B wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what 
I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr B but although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point, such as the individual rules Mr Bs representative thinks The On-Line Partnership has 
breached, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach the right outcome. This service is impartial between, and independent 
from, consumers and businesses. What this means is that we dont represent either party, 
and I dont act under eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint will be looked 
at or what questions should be asked or answered.
Mr B appointed a solicitor to act on his behalf. Mr B says he chose that solicitor because the 
solicitor is also CeMAP (Certificate in Mortgage Advice and Practice) qualified. I can see the 
representative is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to offer mortgages 
and insurance policies, as an appointed representative of a large mortgage network. Which 
leads me to be concerned by the following email we received from Mr Bs representative:
Thank you for your online message. I have read both sections of the website but neither 
give a clear description of the regulatory framework in which you operate and the detail of 
what you must do. I am interested in your statutory authority not what consumer [sic] can 
expect. The website is written for the average Sun reader, or Daily Mail. I read the Times, 
Telegraph and Guardian.
Our investigator provided a link to where Mr Bs representative could find the details of the 
law we were set up under  the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  and a link to the 
FCAs handbook that sets out our rules. I can only suggest if Mr Bs representative needs 
more information then he contacts his regulator, the FCA, who Im sure will be happy to 
assist him.
Mr B and his representative have made much of what they say is incorrect information in the 
fact find, saying the fact-find must therefore have been completed by [the adviser] for the 
benefit of FOS. The implication here is that the fact find was completed fraudulently, with it 
being referred to as definitely not a genuine fact find. Thats a very serious allegation and 
not one that is supported in fact. Incorrect information on the fact find doesnt mean the 
adviser did anything wrong, it could equally be that Mr B gave incorrect information or that 
there has been some misunderstandings.
To use as examples, Mr B has said  the fact-find contains incorrect information, for 
example, that I am married when I am not, that I am self-employed when I am not
I have no idea whether or not Mr B is married but I do note, in the call with the adviser when 
it is discussed that what options Mr B has when the ERC had come to light, Mr B said
Thats the biggest problem. Ive got two young kids and its going to be a bloody 
nightmare and Ill get divorced. (my emphasis)
Mr B was also sent the two recommendation letters from the adviser (one for each of the 
lenders) which said As you are proceeding with a sole application and not adding your wife 
to the Mortgage and Deeds, I recommend that you seek independent legal advice. 
As well as an email from The On-Line Partnership that said As your wife is not on the 
mortgage but will be resident at the new property can you please advise me of her full name 
and date of birth. To which Mr B replied giving Ms Ms name and date of birth.
At no point in any of those communications did Mr B point out that there had been a 
misunderstanding and that Ms M was his partner rather than his wife. For that reason Im 
satisfied this was simply a misunderstanding that Mr B had plenty of time to correct, rather 
than evidence of a fact find having been completed fraudulently.
In terms of Mr Bs employment, whilst Mr B is paid via PAYE he is also a director of the 
limited company that employs him. As the vast majority of the income he needed to afford 
this mortgage came from dividends (rather than PAYE salary) then the adviser did nothing 
wrong in noting down Mr Bs employment as he did on the fact find.
I only mention these points to show that what Mr B and his representative say are errors 
pointing to this being a document created just to defend this case are easily explained for 
other reasons.One other point I feel I should correct Mr B on is that hes said:
Clearly, the call on [the date of the fact find] is not available because it proves the 
opposite of what [the adviser] has claimed. Conversely, the call in which I expressed by 
[sic] dismay at not being aware of the ERC is available. This has not been explained. I am 
MD of [Mr Bs company], a telephony business, and I know these calls are recorded 
automatically. The call therefore exists and it has been withheld.
The first call wasnt recorded, therefore it doesnt exist and it hasnt been withheld. Contrary 
to Mr Bs belief, not all calls are recorded automatically; a business has to set up that facility. 
The On-Line Partnership only set up recording calls in December 2019, hence why the call 
in September wasnt recorded, but the call in December was.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr B admits he didnt know he had an ERC, and thus didnt 
disclose it to the adviser. Mr B says he wasnt asked, whereas the adviser says he did ask.
In the same call with the adviser that Ive referenced above, Mr B said 
Its just frustrating. I wish I had known about it. Thats where I suppose my frustration 
comes in. I didnt go and see [his existing lender] and I didnt sit down with them and I 
should have done that. I didnt. And its a real cock up on my behalf.
Ive carefully considered the snippet of information about his online mortgage account that 
Mr B provided to the adviser. This piece of information has troubled me and has led to this 
case being more borderline that it otherwise would be.
I accept the snippet says Fixed Rate mortgage until 31 Oct 2021 but that is just one line 
and not what the adviser had been given the snippet for. The snippet was used by the 
adviser to see what the outstanding balance, the monthly payment and the remaining term 
were. Whilst it would have stopped this issue in its track if the adviser had noticed the 
description of the rate and thought that may mean an ERC would be applicable, I cant hold 
him liable for overlooking it. It is something that is easily overlooked and Mr B didnt draw his 
attention to it, even though he would have known hed entered into a new mortgage contract 
with his existing lender only a few months earlier.
Thats not to say Im blaming Mr B for not drawing the advisers attention to it, but equally I 
cant blame the adviser for overlooking it.
What this complaint comes down to in the end are the directly opposing submissions of the 
parties. Mr B says he wasnt asked about his existing mortgage interest rate and whether 
there would be an ERC, whereas the adviser says he asked Mr B if his mortgage was in a 
fixed period and was told that the fixed rate had ended and so was on the standard variable 
rate with no ERC.
When considering any complaint like this, as Mr B is the one bringing the complaint against 
The On-Line Partnership, to uphold the complaint Mr Bs version needs to be more likely 
than The On-Line Partnerships version; not just as likely. Having considered everything Im 
satisfied Mr Bs version isnt anything more than just as likely which isnt enough to uphold 
his complaint.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman