DRN-3521046
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car acquired with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr W was supplied with a brand-new car and entered into a finance agreement with 
BMWFS. He experienced some issues with the car, including some with the climate control 
and the navigation screen which the dealership was unable to resolve. Following a complaint 
by Mr W, BMWFS said it would accept a rejection of the car, refund the deposit and pay 
compensation of £250. 
I issued a provisional decision in which I said that I was satisfied that there were faults with 
the car which made it of unsatisfactory quality. I said that I didnt think the resolution 
proposed by BMWFS was fair.  I explained why I didnt think Mr W should receive a refund of 
monthly payments but said I thought it was fair to ask BMWFS to refund 10% of Mr Ws 
monthly payments to reflect his loss of enjoyment as a result of having had to use the car 
with the fault. I said the compensation of £250 offered by BMWFS to reflect distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr W was reasonable.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or arguments they wished to raise 
before I made a final decision. 
Mr W responded and said hed rejected the car on 17 February 2021 but BMWFS took 8 
weeks to respond and refused the request to reject. Mr W said that his calls and 
correspondence to BMWFS had gone unanswered and hed lost a lot of time dealing with 
the matter. He said that in addition to the deposit of £5000, hed continued to pay monthly 
rentals of £1,320.54. Mr W said he didnt think he should be responsible for payments made 
after 17 February 2021 because BMWFS should have accepted the rejection at that point.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of all of the points Mr W has made, and Ive considered the two 
alternative resolutions that he proposes. Having done so, Im not minded to change my 
decision. I dont think its reasonable to ask BMWFS to refund monthly rentals from February 
2021 because Mr W continued to have use of the car. I remain of the view that it is fair to 
make an award for impaired use.  I dont think its reasonable for me to ask BMWFS to repair 
the faults and allow Mr W to keep the car as the evidence suggests that the faults arent 
capable of repair, several attempts having been made already.  
For these reasons my decision remains the same as my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr W
Refund the deposit
Refund 10% of all monthly rentals paid
Pay 8% simple interest on all sums refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay compensation of £250
Remove the agreement from Mr Ws credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman