DRN-4139864
The complaint
Miss D complains that I Go 4 Ltd (I Go 4) cancelled her motor insurance policy. Miss D is 
represented in her complaint, but for ease Ill refer to her throughout.
What happened
Miss D had a motor insurance policy arranged through I Go 4, which is a broker.
Her policy was due to automatically renew on 9 October 2022.
A few days before renewal Miss D phoned I Go 4, made a change to the cover and renewed 
her policy, making full payment over the phone.
I Go 4 had a system error. It cancelled her previous policy at renewal. It emailed Miss D and 
sent her proof of No Claims Discount.
In December, I Go 4 realised it hadnt refunded the money shed paid for the new policy and 
it sent the whole premium back to a credit card. 
Late in December, Miss D was contacted by the police saying her car was uninsured. She 
queried this with I Go 4 in early January and wasnt able to use the car in that period.
She bought a new policy through I Go 4 at a premium which was £229.22 higher than the 
price shed paid in October.
She complained to I Go 4. It said it had made an error and it would pay £100 compensation 
for her distress. It said it wouldnt pay for the additional premium Miss D paid because it said 
shed had the opportunity to look elsewhere for cover.
Miss D remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and upheld it. He said I Go 4 should pay Miss D £229.22 plus interest at 8% simple, in 
addition to £100 for her distress and inconvenience.
Miss D agreed with the view, but I Go 4 didnt. Because it didnt agree, this complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read the file of evidence Ive been provided, Im upholding Miss Ds complaint.
In correspondence after the view, I Go 4 has sought to clarify its position on paying Miss D 
the extra £229.22 shed paid for cover. It has asked whether Miss D looked for cover with 
other companies when she found out she wasnt insured. It asked this because it didnt think 
it was fair that it had to pay the additional premium. Ive considered this point carefully as it 
seems to imply that I Go 4 thinks it should pay a lower amount if Miss D could have found 
cover cheaper elsewhere.
Ive looked at what happened when Miss Gs policy was due to renew. Its clear to me that 
the error was made by I Go 4s system and that the error was a substantial one.
Miss D made the call to I Go 4 and paid for her 2022-23 policy in full over the phone. I think 
its reasonable for her to consider her policy was in place.
I can also see that the notification that her policy wasnt in place came as a considerable 
shock to her in December 2022 and caused significant distress and some inconvenience.
Having contacted I Go 4 to discuss the situation, Miss D has explained that she thought the 
price it gave her would be the cheapest on offer. She was worried that the car wasnt on 
cover, and that shed be penalised.
I dont think I Go 4s contention that Miss D should have shopped around is fair. She was 
faced with a sudden, significant problem and needed a rapid solution. At that moment, I Go 4 
could have resolved this problem quickly, but instead it simply charged Miss D the most 
competitive premium from its panel. I can see from Miss Ds evidence that she felt she had 
very little choice but to take that option, but I need to re-iterate that she was only put in this 
position by I Go 4s error.
Taking everything into account, I think the fair solution is for I Go 4 to put Miss D back in the 
position she should have been. Shes paid an additional premium with I Go 4 of £229.22 for 
her cover, and I think I Go 4 should refund that extra payment to her. 
I also think it needs to pay interest at 8% simple on that amount from the date she paid it, to 
the date I Go 4 make payment.
Ive considered Miss Ds distress and inconvenience. I can see I Go 4 offered £100 
compensation and this amount has been accepted by Miss D. This amount falls into the 
guidelines set by this service, and I think its fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I direct I Go 4 Ltd to pay Miss D:
 £229.22 for the additional premium she paid.
 8% simple interest on this figure, calculated from the date Miss D set up the policy to 
the date I Go 4 Ltd make this payment. 
I Go 4 Ltd  must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss D 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the amount 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman