The complaint
Mr Es complaint is against OneSavings Bank Plc, trading as kent reliance and referred to 
here as OSB.
Mr E says that he was mis-sold a holiday let (HL) mortgage in 2008 and that the valuation 
was falsified so that the mortgage could go ahead. Mr E is also unhappy at the way OSB 
dealt with him after he fell into financial difficulty and handed back the property.
To settle the complaint Mr E would like OSB to sell the property for the maximum amount 
possible and to write off any shortfall.
Mr E has been assisted in bringing the complaint by a relative, but for clarity I will refer 
throughout to Mr E.
What happened
In June 2008, on the advice of his own financial adviser, Mr E took out an unregulated 
secured loan with OSB so he could buy a property which was to be used for holiday lets. 
Mr E borrowed £106,250 against a purchase price of £125,000 on an interest-only basis 
over a term of 20 years. The initial interest rate was 6.85% for the first five years, after which 
the rate was to revert to OSBs variable rate. The initial monthly payment was £606.51. 
In April 2015 Mr E completed a product switch, when there was a desktop valuation of 
£135,902. When this product was reaching its end in 2018, Mr E tried to arrange a new 
product. There were no comparables available to enable a desktop valuation to be carried 
out. In order to proceed, Mr E would need to pay for a valuer to inspect the property on 
behalf of OSB. Mr E decided not to go ahead with this, and so has remained on SVR.
In May 2019 Mr E wrote to OSB to explain that his circumstances had changed and he could 
no longer afford to pay the mortgage. Mr E explained that every year since 2008 hes made 
a financial loss on the property. Mr E asked if he could sell the property as a furnished 
holiday rental, on the understanding that the sale price would not cover the outstanding 
mortgage. Mr E enclosed a budget summary showing he had only £85 per month available 
for his creditors.
OSB didnt respond to the letter but instead sent computer-generated letters about the 
arrears on the account. It wasnt until 25 July 2019 that OSB addressed Mr Es letters, when 
the bank explained the implications of a voluntary surrender of the property. In response, 
Mr E raised his concerns about the valuation of the property. 
In September 2019 Mr E surrendered possession of the property, but also complained that 
he thought the mortgage had been mis-sold, due to an over-inflated valuation. In its final 
response letter, OSB explained that it hadnt sold the mortgage and that, as the brokers 
DRN-1705032were no longer trading, Mr E would need to raise this with the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
OSB apologised for not having addressed Mr Es initial letters but also noted that, although 
Mr E had said he could afford £85 per month, hed not paid this, and no payment had been 
received since May 2019. OSB said it would continue to work with Mr E to try to reach a 
solution regarding the mortgage.
Dissatisfied with OSBs response, Mr E referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, where an investigator looked at it. He didnt think it should be upheld. 
The investigator explained that the mortgage had been sold by a broker, not OSB. He also 
explained that the valuation in 2008 was for OSBs purposes and that it was entitled to rely 
on the expert opinion of the surveyor. He also didnt think there was anything untoward in 
there being a desktop valuation in 2015. Although the property had fallen in value since 
2008, this was due to market conditions which were outside the control of OSB. The 
investigator thought communication could have been better from OSB, but he noted that 
OSB had kept Mr E updated with the status of the mortgage prior to him surrendering the 
property.
Mr E disagreed with the investigators findings, and questioned the valuation from 2015, 
submitting details from the internet of sold property prices. The investigator reiterated that 
the desktop valuation carried out in 2015 was standard practice, and that Mr E hadnt 
questioned the valuation at the time  only in 2019.
Mr E asked for an ombudsman to review the investigators findings. In summary he says that 
OSB didnt tell him how it had come to the 2015 valuation and has failed to provide any 
evidence to support a valuation of £135,902. As a result, Mr E feels he was misled and mis-
sold the mortgage. He is not a financial or housing expert and relied upon OSB to provide 
him with accurate and honest information. He didnt think it unreasonably to trust the 
information he was given and had no reason to challenge this valuation. Mr E considers 
OSB has failed in its duty to provide responsible lending and wants the case looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Id like to acknowledge the difficult circumstances Mr E has found himself in. He 
purchased this property as an investment, with the intention of generating a profit. 
Unfortunately, that has not proved to be the case.
The mortgage was arranged via a broker, and no advice was given by OSB. This type of HL 
mortgage is unregulated, and I note the broker is no longer trading. Mr E has already been 
given details of the FSCS by OSB, but as this is an unregulated product, Mr E may find that 
any avenue to pursue the broker for compensation may be limited. But Im satisfied that OSB 
was not responsible for the sale, and so it follows that any complaint about mis-sale of the 
mortgage against OSB cannot be upheld.
As Mr E has acknowledged, fluctuations in the property market are outside the control of 
OSB. The property was valued in 2008 by an independent valuer, acting only for OSB. This 
was a HL mortgage, not a residential mortgage. As such, it is considered to be a commercial 
loan. This means that Mr E is not entitled to rely on any valuation prepared for the lender. This is the position taken by the Court of Appeal in the case of Scullion v Bank of Scotland 
[2011] EWCA Civ 693 . In the Scullion case, the Court of Appeal provided a clear 
demarcation between residential and investment purchasers. The issue in question in 
Scullion was whether a valuer providing a report to a mortgage lender for a buy-to-let (BTL) 
mortgage owed a duty of care towards the borrower and was liable to the borrower for an 
incorrect valuation. 
The Court of Appeal was unanimous in deciding that a surveyor who provides a valuation 
report for a BTL lender does not owe the borrower a duty of care. This is because the courts 
consider BTL investment property to be a commercial venture. Although I can depart from 
the approach followed by the courts it if I think its fair and reasonable for me to do so, I dont 
intend to do so here. Mr Es mortgage application was for a commercial (HL) loan and so it 
was up to him to carry out his own due diligence and arrange for his own valuation, if hed 
wanted to.
So although Ive noted what Mr E has said about the valuation in 2008 being inflated, if Mr E 
had thought this at the time, it was up to him to challenge this and arrange his own valuation. 
He is not entitled, as a commercial borrower, to place any reliance on the valuation provided 
for OSB.
The valuation in 2015 (when Mr E had a product switch) was a desktop valuation, based on 
house price indices. There is nothing wrong with OSB doing this  it is fairly standard across 
the mortgage market for lenders to do this for existing borrowers. 
OSB is under no obligation to provide Mr E with the details of the indices or statistics it used 
to reach its valuation. Thats because, as I said above, valuations of commercial properties 
are for the lenders benefit only. But it seems Mr E was happy with the valuation when his 
product switch went through, and only queried it in 2019. If Mr E had thought in 2015 that the 
valuation was inaccurate, he could always have had his own valuation carried out. 
The lack of comparables in 2018 meant that Mr E would need to have paid for a valuation, if 
hed wanted a product switch. Mr E chose not to do so. OSB wasnt under any obligation to 
offer a new product without a valuation. 
I think when Mr E wrote to OSB in May 2019 the bank could have responded in a more 
personal fashion, rather than sending out computer-generated letters about the arrears. It 
was two months before OSB responded to Mr Es letters. I can see from his income and 
expenditure form that Mr E wasnt able to pay the mortgage. As this is a commercial loan, 
the forbearance provisions that apply to regulated mortgage contracts dont apply here. It 
seems to me that the only options were either that OSB repossessed the property (which 
would have added court fees) or Mr E surrendered it (which is what he chose to do). 
I dont criticise Mr E at all for handing back the property; his options by September 2019 
were very limited. But I cant hold OSB responsible for the financial losses Mr E might incur 
once the property is sold.
It is anticipated that there will be a shortfall debt outstanding when the property is sold. I can 
see no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to expect OSB to write off that debt, as 
it is money which is due to it under the mortgage contract. But I would remind OSB that it 
must treat Mr E positively and sympathetically and give fair consideration to any payment 
proposals. Similarly, I would urge Mr E to continue to engage with OSB, and to provide 
evidence in support of any payment proposals.It might help Mr E to speak to one of the free debt advice services, such as StepChange, 
Citizens Advice or Shelter. We can give Mr E contact details for those organisations, if hed 
like us to.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr E was hoping for. He bought this property in anticipation that 
it would provide an income as a holiday let, and that it would appreciate in value over the 
years. For reasons that are not the fault of Mr E (and arent the fault of OSB either), that has 
not turned out to be the case. I know this has been a very difficult time for Mr E and I am 
truly sorry if this decision adds to Mr Es distress. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman