DRN-2933735
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy Santander UK Plc blocked and closed her account and have been
denying her access to the money contained within it ever since.
What happened
Miss Ms account was blocked for a review on 9 September 2019 and she was asked to
provide proof of entitlement to a cheque payment of £5,239 that credited a couple of days
prior.
Miss M explained to Santander that the money was a gift from her grandfather following an
inheritance hed received from his sister.
Miss M and her mum, who is representing her in this complaint, say they went to a lot of
trouble to obtain a letter from her grandfathers bank to provide to Santander. This letter
confirmed that the cheque had come from her grandfather and was payable to Miss M.
Santander let Miss M know that this letter wasnt sufficient to prove she was entitled to the
money and asked her to provide something more in relation to the inheritance, including a
letter from her grandad.
Miss M wrote to Santander on 11 October 2019 to inform it she didnt have anything more
she could provide. She explained her grandfather is registered blind and therefore couldnt
provide a letter.
Santander sent Miss M a 30-day notice to close her account on 18 October 2019.
Santander explained to Miss M on a phone call on 14 November 2019 that instead of the
letter from her grandad she could provide information from the solicitors in relation to his
sisters estate or a bank statement for his account. Miss M said she wasnt able to get
anything from the solicitor and wasnt willing to provide her grandads statement as it was his
personal information and she wasnt comfortable obtaining it. Santander let Miss M know
that without anything further from her the cheque amount would be held but she could
access her wages in branch.
As a result, Santander has kept hold of the money since then. Miss M provided this service
with additional information about the inheritance, including solicitors documents, which the
investigator sent to Santander. As a result, Santander took the decision to release the
money and sent a cheque for the balance on the account in April 2021.
Miss Ms mum has explained the impact this had on Miss M. She said Miss M was only 17 at
the time and the whole matter caused her significant upset to the point she needed
counselling. She said she herself had to do a lot of running around and made numerous
visits to branch and phone calls during the whole process. She feels the letter from Miss Ms
grandfathers bank shouldve been sufficient to show Miss M was entitled to the funds, or at
least Santander couldve verified this itself.
Miss Ms mum has explained how she also had to lend Miss M money because Santander
hadnt released the cheque funds or the rest of the balance in the account which was made
up of Miss Ms wages. Miss M was able to attend branch on 7 October 2019 to take £50 out
of her account. However, she was too humiliated to go back after that due to the way she
was treated in branch, namely that she had to show ID and wait for the branch staff to call
the fraud team before the £50 was given to her.
As Santander wouldnt release the cheque funds, Miss M brought her complaint to this
service. Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She didnt think Santander had made
an error in reviewing the account and withholding the cheque funds. She explained it was
Miss Ms responsibility to provide the requested proof of entitlement evidence and because
she didnt, this is what caused the delay. However, she asked Santander to pay Miss M £50
compensation and 8% interest on her wage payment that credited the account on 20
September 2019. She felt Santander had restrictions on the account at that point which
wouldve made it difficult for Miss M to access this money. Santander agreed to this
recommendation and sent Miss M a cheque for the compensation amount.
Miss M has now received the cheque funds, her wages and the compensation
recommended by the investigator.
However, Miss M remained unhappy with the compensation amount due to how long
Santander held onto her money and the amount of inconvenience this caused.
Because Miss M disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What I provisionally decided  and why
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on
28 June 2021. I provide a copy of my findings from that decision below:
Account block, closure and withholding of cheque funds
Santander has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing
account services to its customers. These are ongoing so dont just apply at account opening
stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts and the activity
taking place on them. And part of this might require it to restrict a customers access to an
account, or the money contained within it, where appropriate. If Santander didnt do this, it
could risk serious sanction.
With this in mind, Im satisfied Santander was within its rights to restrict Miss Ms account
and review it. And, having considered all the information available to me I can understand
why Santander wanted to review the account. It was also entitled to close her account. It did
so in line with its legal and regulatory obligations and, having reviewed the terms and 
conditions, it did so in line with these too. Santander has the discretion to offer accounts to
who it wishes, just as Miss M can choose who to bank with.
Miss M has explained how she was impacted by the restriction and Santanders decision to
retain the cheque deposit, so Ive looked at whether Santander couldve acted any quicker
than it did or done anything differently.
Santander required Miss M to provide proof of entitlement to the cheque funds and it made it
clear what would be acceptable evidence in the circumstances. While I appreciate Miss M
and her mum believe the letter from her grandfathers bank was sufficient, Santander didnt
deem it to be so. Im in agreement. The issue here was not about confirming what account
the funds had come from, but rather confirming that Miss M was entitled to them. With this in
mind, a letter from her grandfathers bank saying the cheque had been issued to Miss M was
not sufficient in these circumstances. This is why Santander asked for more specific
information about the inheritance. Something Im satisfied it was entitled to do in order to
comply with its legal and regulatory obligations.Miss M only provided this information once the complaint was referred to our service. And
following this, Santander agreed to release the money. So, I dont think Santander caused
any delays here, nor can I hold it responsible for the length of time it held onto the money or
the time Miss M and her mum spent in contact with Santander. It was Miss Ms responsibility
to provide the requested information and as soon as she did, the money was released.
So, whilst I appreciate Santanders decision to block the account and withhold the cheque
funds caused Miss M a significant degree of trouble and upset, I cant say Santander made
any mistakes that mean it should compensate her for this. The fact remains that Santander
has legal and regulatory obligations to adhere to and its reasonable for it to take steps to
ensure it does so.
Access to wages
Our investigator upheld Miss Ms complaint about not being able to access her wages. She
felt Miss M may have had issues with accessing her wage payment of £203.73 that credited
on 20 September 2019. She said Santander shouldve allowed Miss M to access her wages
on this occasion and there may have been blockers on the account prior to 18 October 2020
that wouldve made this difficult for Miss M.
Whilst I agree that in these circumstances Santander shouldve allowed Miss M access to
her wages, Im not in agreement with the investigator that Miss M was prevented from doing
so. I say this because I can see from Miss Ms statements that she was able to withdraw £50
from her account on 7 October 2019. And indeed, Miss Ms mum has confirmed in her
correspondence with us that following a call with Santander (which in Santanders notes I
can see took place on 5 October 2019) Miss M was advised to go to branch where she could
withdraw her wages  and this was the £50 taken on 7 October 2019. So, Im satisfied that
Miss M was able to access her wages from at least that date. And Ive seen nothing to
suggest shed asked and been refused access in the two weeks prior to this either.
I understand Miss Ms mum has said Miss M felt humiliated when she attended branch to
collect this money due to the staff having to take a picture of her driving licence and phone
the fraud team to confirm the money could be released. So, she felt she couldnt collect
anymore of her wages after that. But I dont think Santander did anything wrong here. It was
entitled to ask for identification and contact the fraud team before releasing the money.
Santander then made it clear in the notice to close letter on 18 October 2019 and call on 14
November 2019 that Miss M could go and collect the remaining balance in her account from 
branch at any point. Given this, I dont think Santander withheld the wage payments - which
made up the balance in the account minus the cheque payment - from Miss M and she
couldve collected these at any point. It was her choice not to do this.
Santander has already issued Miss M a cheque for the compensation for any delay in
access to her wages, as recommended by the investigator. And I wont be making any
recommendations here given my conclusions above.
Miss Ms mum responded to the provisional decision on Miss Ms behalf. She didnt accept 
what Id decided, reiterating the points shed made previously. She said the following:
Miss M didnt receive her wages until April 2021.  
Santander requested the letter from her fathers bank which she provided, and 
Santander subsequently lost. It was later found after she suggested they check 
CCTV, but Santander didnt then accept it and asked for further information which they couldnt obtain. This included a letter from her father, but he is registered blind, 
and his bank account statements which they didnt feel comfortable obtaining as 
these were private to him. 
It wasnt until this service became involved that Miss M was asked to provide any 
details from the solicitor regarding the estate. 
She maintains that between September 2019 and April 2021 there had been 
considerable time waiting for the funds to be released. This is why Miss M felt like 
she was being accused of being involved with fraudulent funds and had to seek 
support for how it made her feel. Miss Ms mum pointed out that Miss M was only 17 
at the time and the impact this had on her. 
Santander responded to the provisional decision confirming the timeline of what happened. 
This was no different to what is as detailed in the background above, so I wont repeat it 
here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand Miss Ms mums strength of feeling that Santander has done wrong here, 
Im afraid I still cant agree. She hasnt raised any new points in response to my provisional 
decision, but for clarity I will address what she said. 
It is true that Santander didnt send Miss M her wages until April 2021, following our 
involvement. However, these funds werent being withheld from Miss M. As I mentioned in 
my provisional decision, Santander told Miss M in both the notice to close letter and the 
phone call on 18 October 2019, that she could go in and collect her wages from branch at 
any point. And indeed, she did go in on 7 October 2019 and withdraw £50. So, Im satisfied 
Miss M was aware she could do this, and Santander didnt prevent her from doing so. It was 
her choice not to collect this money.
I understand Santander requested the letter from Miss Ms grandfather and this may have 
been lost for a short period of time, but this wasnt all Santander requested. And as I 
explained in my provisional decision, this letter wasnt sufficient on its own to prove Miss M 
was entitled to the cheque proceeds. Santander explained this to Miss M in the phone call it 
had with her on 14 November 2019. And whilst Miss Ms mum has said she wasnt asked to 
provide anything from the solicitor until our involvement, this isnt the case. This was 
requested in that phone call. Miss M told Santander she couldnt obtain this information as 
the solicitor had told her she was done with the case and couldnt provide anything. Given 
this, Im satisfied Miss M had been given clear instructions on what she needed to provide 
and had she done so, the money couldve been released to her sooner. 
The fact remains that Santander has strict legal and regulatory obligations to adhere to, 
which means it must ask questions about payments from time to time. So, whilst I appreciate 
this has had an impact on Miss M  and Im very sorry this is the case  Santander didnt 
make an error in the actions it took. Miss M delayed providing sufficient evidence of her 
entitlement to the funds and ultimately this is why it took so long for the cheque money to be 
released to her.  
Given this, my decision on this complaint remains unchanged and I dont uphold it. 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman