DRN-4227079
The complaint
Mr M opened a bank account with National Westminster Bank Plc and complains that they 
completed an unnecessary hard credit search and recorded it on his credit file.
What happened
On 3 May 2023, Mr M opened a bank account with NatWest without any credit facility.
During the application process Mr M declined an overdraft facility and, due to this and other 
information he read, he thought a soft rather than hard credit search would be made as he 
wasnt taking out a NatWest product requiring credit.
Mr M was subsequently dissatisfied to discover a hard credit search was made. Mr M feels 
that this is disproportionate and, as it impacts on his credit score, he complained and asked 
NatWest to either remove it or close his bank account.
NatWest didnt uphold his complaint. They said a hard credit search was a mandatory 
requirement and explained that although Mr M hadnt requested an overdraft a current 
account is able to offer lending facilities. NatWest also pointed to information theyd provided 
which said they would do a credit check and share information with Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs).
Mr M complained to our service, but our investigator couldnt see that NatWest had done 
anything wrong.
As Mr M remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
I should first explain that I cant tell a business to make alterations to their policies, 
procedures, processes or systems. This is because we arent the regulator of the financial 
services industry.
However, what I can do is consider each individual case and, where I think a business hasnt 
acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances, decide what should be done to put right 
any financial or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced. 
I first considered whether, prior to opening his account, NatWest explained what they were 
going to check. I found that their website said applications for accounts can affect your 
credit score as a footprint will be left on your file but Mr Ms submission persuades me he 
didnt see this.
However, Im satisfied he wouldve been alerted, in NatWests account terms and conditions, 
to the fact that they would share information with CRAs as in their How your information 
might be used leaflet they said We share your information withCredit reference Agencies, 
so we can:- Do a credit check  this can affect your credit score (we dont do one if youre 
just opening a savings account). 
So, although I couldnt see this specified whether this was a hard or a soft check, as a soft 
check wouldnt have an impact on a credit score, I think this strongly suggests that the credit 
check would be a hard search even if Mr M was opening a current account without an 
overdraft facility. 
I understand Mr M wasnt applying to borrow money when he applied for a new account. But 
NatWest explain a hard credit search is performed before all accounts are opened as a 
current account is able to offer lending facilities. So, its a mandatory policy which I think is 
reasonable and impacts on all their customers.
I can understand why Mr M thinks its unhelpful for NatWest not to refer to credit searches in 
the same terms as some other banks. But I dont think NatWest have an obligation to do so 
and as mentioned above, I cant tell them to make alterations to their policies.
Mr M wouldve acknowledged he read NatWests information, including CRA checks, before 
proceeding with his application and, if Mr M wasnt sure if this was going to be a soft or hard 
check, I think he shouldve clarified the type of credit check at this stage.
So, having considered all the above, including NatWests responsibilities to make accurate 
reporting to CRAs, I also cant see that NatWest have made an error here and Im not 
upholding this complaint.
Finally, Mr M said he would prefer to close his account to negate the CRA check and, 
although this an option for him to discuss with NatWest, NatWest have pointed out that the 
search only remains on his credit file for 6 months and due to the passage of time will shortly 
drop off.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman