DRN-3206815
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain the investment bond recommended by an appointed 
representative of Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited was unsuitable for their needs.   
What happened
Mrs W and Mr W sold their business in 1997. They brought a house and paid off their 
existing mortgage. This left them with £200,000, which they invested in a Portfolio Bond 
recommended by an appointed representative of a business Aviva have now acquired. They 
invested £50,000 in a guaranteed fund for five years, and the remaining £150,000 in the 
with-profits fund. After five years the value of the guaranteed fund was switched into the 
with-profits fund. Mrs W and Mr W surrendered the bond in 2005.
Mrs W and Mr Ws representative complained to Aviva that they were inexperienced 
investors whod retired earlier than the state pension age. They had an income of £400 per 
month, and theyd been advised to invest all of their remaining cash into an investment bond 
that was low risk but was designed for the medium to long-term. They said this meant Mrs W 
and Mr W had no easily accessible funds in case of an emergency. And they hadnt been 
given enough time to assess their future needs.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint and said they werent able to investigate whether the 
investment was suitable because they held insufficient records from the time of the sale.
Mrs W and Mr W brought their complaint to our service and Aviva consented to us 
investigating. One of our investigators looked into things for Mrs W and Mr W and thought 
Aviva hadnt acted fairly in investing such a large proportion of their funds. Our investigator 
said the three separate cash withdrawals from the bond in 1998 suggested Aviva hadnt set 
aside sufficient cash reserves for Mrs W and Mr Ws needs. Our investigator felt it wouldve 
been fairer for Aviva to recommend investing £150,000 and leaving £50,000 accessible. And 
that Aviva should compare the performance of Mrs W and Mr Ws investment with that of a 
benchmark fixed interest fund and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual 
value of the investment. Our investigator also thought Aviva should refund any fees 
associated with the three withdrawals in 1998.
Mrs W and Mr W accepted our investigators proposed remedy. 
Aviva said they arent able to demonstrate the advice was suitable because they no longer 
hold the point of sale documents to refer to. They say that their appointed representatives 
were told to ensure customers held sufficient funds for emergencies, and any failure to do 
this would have been picked up in internal checks. 
As I didnt agree with the remedy suggested by one of our investigators I issued a 
provisional decision. I asked for any further comments or evidence from Mrs W and Mr W 
and Aviva. In my provisional decision I said:
Aviva say that they arent obliged to keep records for more than six years and 
referred me to the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation 2018. I 
have some empathy with Aviva here, but there is also a responsibility for Aviva to 
retain sufficient information to address any complaints a consumer may make. In this 
case, having given us consent to investigate the complaint, Aviva have only been 
able to provide limited customer data. They are unable to provide a copy of any point 
of sale documents, such as a fact-find or recommendation letter. Aviva believe it 
would be unfair to conclude theyd acted unfairly without these documents being 
considered. I think that if these documents had been available I wouldve had a more 
complete picture of what happened at the time of the sale. But, as they arent 
available, Ive considered the testimonies of Mrs W and Mr W, and Aviva, to decide 
what is likely to have happened at the time of the sale. And I consider Ive enough 
evidence to be able to make a fair and reasonable decision without the documents 
Ive referred to.
Mrs W and Mr W had just retired in 1997. Because of their age at the time they 
werent receiving state pensions. Instead, they tell us they were in receipt of a £400 
per month income. Mrs W and Mr W say they had £200,000 cash and theyd never 
had such a sum to invest before. They responded to an advertisement in the local 
press by a building society and met with an appointed representative of Aviva for 
advice. 
I acknowledge Aviva say their representative had a requirement to ensure clients had 
sufficient accessible capital for emergencies. And, if this hadnt been considered, it 
wouldve been picked up by their quality team. However, Im persuaded its more 
likely this wasnt considered by the appointed representative. This is because, within 
the first 15 months of the investment, Mrs W and Mr W withdrew cash on three 
separate occasions. Any withdrawals from the investment bond attracted a penalty 
charge in the first three years of 5%. So, I consider it is unlikely Mrs W and Mr W 
would take these withdrawals if they had other cash funds available. The total value 
of the three withdrawals was £3,000, so it seems unlikely that they had sufficient 
cash left to meet their requirements, even over the short-term. 
Aviva says that before making the first withdrawal in February 1998, Mrs W and Mr 
W called to see what the excess profit was on the bond. But, this request for 
additional funds came only 5 months after the initial investment. And it suggests 
theyd been recommended to invest more into the bond than they shouldve if they 
were having to access this capital so early.
Ive also considered the investment bond was set-up to pay a regular monthly income 
of £1,250, starting one-month after the investment was made. This is a regular 
withdrawal of 7.5% per annum and adds weight that there was very little cash for Mrs 
W and Mr W to fall back on to help with their day-to-day living expenses. 
Im persuaded that the advice to recommend £200,000 into medium term 
investments within a bond was unsuitable. And I consider it wouldve been fairer for 
Aviva to recommend £50,000 of the £150,000 with-profits investment be retained in 
an easily accessible account.
Mrs W and Mrs W said they had no further comments to my provisional decision.
Aviva asked me to consider a number of issues and I will now address these in my final 
decision below.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva say I shouldnt rely on the customer testimony alone and asked what evidence Id 
received to show Mrs W and Mr W had been left with £200,000 after they sold their business 
and paid off their mortgage. I explained in my provisional decision that I intended to decide 
based on what is likely to have happened. And I have considered both Avivas 
representations and Mrs W and Mr Ws representations in this regard. Its unfortunate that 
Aviva are unable to provide any documents confirming what Mrs W and Mr Ws financial 
position was at the time, or any recollections from their appointed representative. However, 
the recollections of Mrs W and Mr W have been consistent from when they first complained 
to Aviva to when they complained to our service.
Regardless of this, Im persuaded that at the crux of this complaint is how the £200,000 was 
invested, why a regular income was taken so early on and why Mrs W and Mr W felt the 
need to withdraw three separate lump sums within the first 15 months. 
Aviva say that Mrs W and Mr W contacted them within six months of the investment to ask if 
there were any excess profit or growth they could take. They say this supports Mrs W and 
Mr W only took the profit theyd made, and if there had been no profit theyd have looked at 
alternatives. Aviva havent provided any evidence there was any profit at the time of the first 
withdrawal, but theyve recorded Mrs W and Mr W wrote to them in February 1998 
requesting to withdraw £1,000 out of the excess profits made. I consider it unlikely that 
having taken £5,000 in regular withdrawals in the first four months of the investment that 
there would be any profit or growth available for Mrs W and Mr W to take. And, as they 
withdrew a further £1,000 the following month, in addition to the further monthly income due 
on 28 February 1998, I consider that this makes it more likely Mrs W and Mr W werent 
simply taking excess profits, but were simply taking out ad-hoc withdrawals as they needed 
the funds.
Aviva have suggested that as Mrs W and Mr W were happy to re-invest the capital 
guarantee fund into the with-profits fund when it came to an end in 2002, this supports they 
were happy with the amount theyd invested. I dont agree. This complaint is about what 
happened in 1997 and whether the investment was suitable for Mrs W and Mr W based on 
their circumstances in 1997.
Aviva say they feel it wasnt unsuitable to provide an immediate income from the investment 
as it provided Mrs W and Mr W with a higher income than that available on a deposit 
account. I acknowledge the comments Aviva have made, but setting up the payments from 
October 1997, at a rate of 7.5%, is effectively taking the income before it has been earned. 
And Im not persuaded Mrs W and Mr W would have understood this to be the case. Ive 
also noted that the illustration Aviva has provided shows the income as being taken as 
Regular withdrawals of £15,000 per year payable annually in arrear (sic). I would have 
more empathy with the comments Aviva have made if the income had been set up as 
£15,000 per year in arrears, but this wasnt the case.
Aviva have said that Mrs W and Mr W werent charged a withdrawal penalty as the 
withdrawals were below the 10% per annum limit allowed. I acknowledge that this may be 
the case and if there has been no charge made, then I would ask Aviva to confirm this in 
their remedy to Mrs W and Mr W, as I explain my final decision below.
Aviva believe the remedy I proposed in my provisional decision wouldnt have met the 
objectives of Mrs W and Mr W to generate £1,250 per month income. And that if Mrs W and Mr W had left £50,000 on deposit, their capital would have been eroded faster because of 
lower deposit rates. I appreciate the point Aviva are making here, but I consider the remedy I 
proposed was a fair and reasonable one. Its based on my opinion that Mrs W and Mr W 
wouldve invested differently if theyd been given suitable advice. And Im persuaded that 
because the investment was set up to produce a 7.5% per annum income immediately, and 
that Mrs W and Mr W accessed the investment three times in the first 15 months, it wasnt 
wholly suitable. I remain satisfied that my remedy is fair and proportionate in these 
circumstances.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
and Mr W as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been given 
unsuitable advice. 
I take the view that Mrs and Mr W wouldve invested differently. Its not possible to say 
precisely what they wouldve done differently. But Im satisfied that what I have set out below 
is fair and reasonable given Mrs and Mr W's circumstances and objectives when they 
invested. 
What should Aviva do?
To compensate Mrs and Mr W fairly, Aviva must:
Take £50,000 of the with-profits investment and compare the performance with that 
of the benchmark shown below. And then pay the difference between the fair value 
and the actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation is payable.
Aviva should also pay interest as set out below.
Aviva should also refund any charges or associated fees on the three withdrawals 
made in 1998 and pay interest at 8% simple per year on the amount from the charge 
date, if there was a charge, to the date of settlement. If there is no charge, Aviva 
should tell Mrs W and Mr W.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date) additional interest
£50,000 
Unitised With-
Profits Fundsurrenderedaverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
surrender8% simple per year 
on any loss from 
the end date to the 
date of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Aviva should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because: 
Mrs W and Mr W wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking all of their 
capital.  
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs W and 
Mr W's circumstances and objectives. It doesnt mean that Mrs W and Mr W would 
have invested only in a fixed rate bond. Its the sort of investment return a consumer 
could have obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money since the 
end date.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint for the reasons provided above. And 
that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must:
 Take £50,000 of the with-profits investment and compare the performance with that 
of the benchmark shown below. And then pay the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Aviva should also pay interest as set in my decision.
 Aviva should also refund any charges or associated fees on the three withdrawals 
made in 1998 and pay interest at 8% simple per year on the amount from the charge date, if 
there was a charge, to the date of settlement. If there is no charge, Aviva should tell Mrs W 
and Mr W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman