DRN-2707886
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) took too long to 
settle his car insurance claim. He complains that this left him with an unsafe car, and he has 
been left out of pocket by having to pay to complete repairs to his car.
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated 2 February 
2021. In my provisional decision I explained that I thought Admiral had caused unnecessary 
delays during the handling of the claim, but I didnt think it needed to pay the claim as I 
hadnt seen that Mr S had complied with the terms and conditions of his car insurance policy. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence. Admiral didnt have 
anything to add following receipt of my provisional decision. Mr S replied and made several 
additional points, which Ill go on to address. But first Ill include an extract of my provisional 
decision.
An extract of my provisional decision
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them all here. 
Instead Ill give a summary, and then Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Mr S had a car accident in June 2017, when a car collided with the passenger side of his 
car whilst he was approaching a roundabout. The collision was captured by another partys 
in-car dash camera. 
Mr S informed Admiral of the accident and at that time, chose not to make a claim against 
his own insurance policy. Instead he chose to wait until liability had been accepted by the 
third partys insurer. Hes unhappy that the third party was provided with a courtesy car, but 
he had to drive his car in an unroadworthy condition.
Mr S sent the dash cam footage to Admiral in July 2017. There were some technical issues 
with Admiral being able to view the footage, but this was eventually rectified. Admiral 
agreed that the accident appeared to be non-fault on Mr Ss part and it sent the footage on 
to the third party insurer to await an admission of liability.
Mr S has complained he was told the claim would be settled on a 50/50 basis, as the third-
party insurer hadnt accepted liability. So Mr S chose to repair his car himself instead of 
claiming under his insurance policy. Mr S took his car to Germany, as he says it was much 
cheaper to have the car repaired there. But Mr S hasnt been able to provide a schedule of 
the works that were completed, or an invoice to show how much he paid for the work. 
Admiral says that it took so long to settle the claim as the third-party insurer didnt accept 
liability, despite the evidence that had been provided. Mr S says that Admiral shouldve 
been aware that the third-party insurer accepted liability in May 2018, but Admiral 
maintains that it wasnt aware of this.
The claim was eventually settled in March 2019 as a non-fault accident after the third-party 
insurer accepted liability for it. So thats no longer in dispute. But Mr S remains unhappy 
with the delays in the claims process, and the fact that Admiral hasnt agreed to pay for the 
repairs that he had carried out in Germany as he hasnt been able to provide evidence of 
what was repaired and how much it cost. 
Mr S has also disputed the information within the claim file that Admiral has sent to this 
service. I note hes concerned that Admiral has retrospectively produced correspondence 
that he says was never sent. He believes that Admiral has acted fraudulently. 
Our investigator thought that Admiral had caused delays to the claims process, as it didnt 
effectively follow up on its communications with the third-party insurer to chase an 
admission of liability. So he recommended that Admiral should pay £200 compensation to 
Mr S in recognition of this, which Admiral agreed to. 
The investigator was satisfied that the claim had now been recorded correctly as a non-
fault claim, and he recommended that Admiral should inspect Mr Ss car and pay Mr S a 
settlement figure based on the repairs that Admiral thinks wouldve needed to be 
completed as a result of the accident, had Mr S not already had the repairs completed. He 
also recommended that Admiral should recalculate Mr Ss renewal premiums to ensure Mr 
S has paid the correct renewal premiums based on the claim being recorded correctly as a 
non-fault accident. Admiral also agreed with these recommendations.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings. So as the case still hasnt been resolved, 
it has been passed to me to make a decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive made different findings to our investigator, so Im proposing a different 
resolution. In summary, I dont think that Admiral needs to pay the claim in the absence of 
Mr S being able to provide any evidence of what he spent or what repairs were carried out. 
But I do think Admiral needs to compensate Mr S for the unnecessary delays in the handle 
of his claim. Ill explain why. 
Id like to start by explaining that as the insurance liability dispute has now been settled, I 
havent considered that as part of my decision. And whilst I may not individually refer to 
every point that each party has raised, Ive thought about everything carefully when 
reaching my decision.  
I can see from the claim file that Admiral did, on several occasions, ask Mr S if he wanted 
to make a claim for the repairs to his vehicle. The notes show that Mr S chose not to accept 
this offer, as he wanted to wait for the liability dispute to be settled before deciding whether 
to claim against his policy, for fear of his premiums increasing in the future. Whilst I 
understand Mr Ss initial concerns about his premiums increasing, I cant hold Admiral 
liable for the decision he made as to whether to pursue a claim or not. During insurance 
claims theres often disputes as to which party is responsible, which can be a lengthy 
process. But Admiral acted fairly in giving Mr S the opportunity to have his car repaired by 
one of its approved repairers, whilst liability was still in dispute. Hed have received a 
courtesy car to use whilst the repairs were being carried out. The fact that Mr S chose not 
to use this option, and instead chose to travel to Germany to have the repairs carried out, 
was entirely up to Mr S. 
Mr Ss policy says: If you do not wish to use our Approved Repairers your claim handler 
can discuss the process for using an alternative service. Please contact the claims 
department on 0333 220 2033 or 0333 220 2034 for MultiCar customers before arranging any repair work to your car. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr S discussed having 
his car repaired in Germany with Admiral before having this work done. 
Mr Ss policy offers two options for damage following an accident; the vehicle can either be 
repaired by one of Admirals approved repairers, or it can be inspected by one of Admirals 
engineers who would arrive at a figure of what theyd expect the repairs to cost. They may 
then pay this as a cash sum, in lieu of carrying out the repairs. But Mr S chose to have the 
repairs completed before an inspection was carried out. So whilst I know Mr S feels that 
Admiral should now pay for all of the work hes had done, he hasnt been able to evidence 
what that work was, or how much he paid for it. He also hasnt been able to provide the 
name of the garage he used or been able to contact that garage himself. The estimate Mr 
S has provided Admiral was completed some time after the accident happened, and not by 
the garage that completed the work. Admiral didnt agree that everything included in that 
estimate was likely to have been a result from the accident itself, so it hasnt agreed to pay 
the amount quoted in that estimate. 
In this instance I think it was reasonable for Admiral to require confirmation from the garage 
that completed the work on Mr Ss car before it agreed to reimburse Mr S for that work.  
Ive now gone on to think about the delays in the handling of Mr Ss claim. After the initial 
technical issues which prevented both insurers from being able to view the dash cam 
footage, I can see that Admiral contacted the third-party insurer in July, August and 
September 2017 although they werent always able to get through. They also sent an email 
in January 2018, but I cant see that a response was received, and Admiral didnt attempt 
to contact the third-party insurer again until September 2018, and this call was 
unsuccessful. A further call was made in October 2019, at which point the notes suggest 
that the third-party advised they still hadnt received the dash cam footage. This was then 
sent again. 
Mr S has referred to a phone call between the two insurers that took place in January 2019. 
Ive listened to the call in question and I note that the purpose was for the third party to 
advise Admiral that it was no longer disputing liability. Amongst other things, the third-party 
insurer tells Admiral that they accepted liability in May 2018 and made Admiral aware of 
that. The Admiral agent appears to agree that something has gone wrong, and that Admiral 
shouldve known about this, and explains that Admiral will get this looked into. Following 
this, I cant see anything other than a note from March 2019, when Admiral closed its file as 
a non-fault claim. And having listened to this call, Im persuaded that Admiral should have 
known about the admission of liability much earlier than it did, and the claim could likely 
have been settled around six or seven months earlier.
Having considered everything, its clear that this claim took much longer than it needed to 
before it was settled. Whilst some of the delays can be attributed to the third-party insurer 
not replying to Admiral in a timely manner, I think Admiral couldve done more to mitigate 
this. I also think the delay between the phone call in May 2018, and Admiral closing the 
claim in March 2019, couldve been avoided. So I think its fair for me to direct Admiral to 
pay Mr S some compensation in recognition of these delays.
As Mr S hasnt been able to provide any details on the repairs carried out to his car, such 
as the work that was done, how much it cost, or where it was done, I dont think its 
reasonable to do expect Admiral to cover this claim. For what was most likely a large 
expense and upheaval  travelling to Germany  I think its fair to say that Mr S should be 
able to produce some sort of information or documentation to support his claim. If Mr S is 
able to provide this information, I believe itd then be fair for Admiral to consider the claim.
Whilst I believe the claim has most likely been closed correctly, Admiral should ensure the 
claim has been recorded on its systems and on the national insurance databases as a non-
fault claim. Admiral should consider the impact the incorrect recording had on Mr Ss 
renewal prices following this.
Ive thought about what Mr S said in relation to Admiral providing false records to this service, and to him, in relation to the correspondence it has sent. I do accept that Mr S may 
not have received all the letters that Admiral sent him, and I know Mr S feels strongly about 
this point. But I havent seen anything, other than Mr Ss suspicions, to suggest that 
Admiral has acted fraudulently in dealing with the claim, or indeed the complaint. And I find 
it hard to believe that Admiral would go to the length of retrospectively producing 
correspondence and phone calls that didnt happen. So I havent concluded that Admiral 
needs to put anything right in relation to this. 
Whilst I havent listed every point Mr S has raised individually, Ive thought very carefully 
about everything hes said. I do recognise that although Im upholding the complaint, Mr S 
may not agree with my findings. But for the reasons Ive explained, I think this is a fair and 
reasonable way to bring this complaint to a close. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I havent departed from the initial conclusions I made in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why.
Mr S has provided several pieces of information in response to my provisional decision. I 
note that he has provided confirmation of ferry bookings between the United Kingdom and 
Europe, and a hotel booking for one night in Germany. He is also provided an extract of 
Admirals system note which include a typographical error. Mr S maintains that this is 
evidence that Admiral manipulated its records whilst dealing with this claim.  
Based on the information that Mr S has provided, Im satisfied that he did in fact travel to 
Germany, possibly to have his car repaired. But that wasnt the issue. Whilst I understand 
that Mr S is out of pocket by having to pay to travel to, and stay in Germany, I maintain that 
that he didnt follow the terms and conditions of his car insurance policy by calling Admiral to 
discuss the claim and repairs before having the work completed. 
Mr S has also explained that he took his car to Germany as a friend and there offered to 
complete the work on his car for free. He explains that although his friend didnt ask for any 
money after having completed the work, he paid for the parts and also gave him a tip, in 
cash. But as Ive already said, as this was not discussed with Admiral before it happened, 
and as there is no receipt for the work or schedule of what was done, it wouldnt be fair for 
me to require Admiral to reimburse Mr S for this outlay.
Ive now thought about the contact notes that Mr S has provided, which he says show that 
Admiral manipulated its records. I can see that the notes include some text with what 
appears to be a misplaced sentence in the middle of another sentence. Both sentences have 
a similar meaning, but I do appreciate that only one of them should exist, and therefore the 
record is inaccurate. But that doesnt lead me to think that Admiral has manipulated this 
record  either before or after it dealt with Mr Ss claim. As our investigator explained, this 
appears to be a simple typing error, whereby has been copied and pasted into the wrong 
location; it doesnt lead me to believe that Admiral has tried to act dishonestly. So this hasnt 
led me to change my initial conclusions.
I note that following my provisional decision, Mr S told our investigator that he hadnt 
provided all information that he intended to. He explained that he was still waiting on 
itemised telephone records from his mobile phone provider. But as Ive already allowed the 
parties over six weeks to provide additional information, and as I dont think this will affect 
the outcome, Ive issued my final decision without that information  and over a week after 
the initial deadline that I set; it wouldnt be fair for me to extend this deadline indefinitely.Finally, Mr has also provided evidence that his car failed its MOT test in April 2018. I note 
that the reason for the failure was that one of the tyres had ply or cords exposed. I do 
accept that this may have been related to the accident in question, in June 2017. But as the 
MOT test took place almost a year later, I think its more likely that this is a result of wear 
and tear from usage of the vehicle, rather than from the accident.
Having reviewed everything that Mr S has sent to me, I do understand that he feels that 
Admiral hasnt represented him well and hasnt provided the service hes paid for. But I dont 
agree. Hes had the insurance that hes paid for, and whilst Ive heard his concerns, I dont 
agree that Admiral has falsified its records or not acted in Mr Ss interests  apart from by 
delaying his claim unnecessarily.
I understand that Mr S feels very strongly about this complaint and Im sure that my decision 
will come as a disappointment to him. But I also hope that my explanations reassure him that 
I thought very carefully about everything he said. Having done so I havent found any reason 
to change my initial conclusions. 
It follows that I uphold this complaint and require Admiral to put things right in the way that 
Ive already explained in my provisional decision.
 
Putting things right
To put things right I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr S £200 compensation for the delays in the handling of the claim;
Recalculate any renewals that Mr S made whilst the claim was incorrectly recorded 
as 50/50 liability. Admiral should refund the difference between what Mr S paid, and 
what he would have paid had the claim been recorded correctly at the time of 
renewal. Admiral should also pay interest on those amounts at an annual rate of 8% 
simple a year from the date Mr S paid them, to the date of settlement
If Mr S is able to provide sufficient information or evidence of the work he had done 
to his car, Admiral should consider the claim in light of that information. If anything is 
payable to Mr S, this should be paid once agreed by Mr S and in line with his 
policys terms and the applicable excess.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral to take off tax from this interest. Admiral must give Mr 
S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman