DRN-1322458
The complaint
Mr E is a sole trader and complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has wrongly been charging him 
fees for a business account.
What happened
Mr E says a relative told him that she was operating her business through a personal 
account at HSBC. He said that when he then closed his business account branch staff knew 
hed be making business payments through his personal account. Mr E complained to HSBC 
and said that he had a business account since 2011 he didnt need and had been paying 
fees. He wants a refund of the fees. 
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. HSBC had said in 
response to Mr E that it doesnt allow business transactions through a personal account. If it 
suspects that this is being done it was entitled to give notice to close the account. This was 
in line with the terms and conditions.
Mr E did not agree and wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint. HSBC had recently 
broken its own rules by allowing him to operate his business through a personal account. 
Thats after it told him for years that he needed a business account. He did not think he 
could take the rules seriously and found the outcome confusing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the HSBC personal account state these cover our personal 
banking accounts and services and that If you need a business bank account please ask 
us for a different agreement. Under Section 27 it says that HSBC can end the agreement if 
youre using the account for a purpose not covered by this agreement. 
Im afraid I dont have a reasonable basis to find that Mr E ought to have been able to use 
his personal account for his business transactions in the past. And so to require HSBC to 
refund the fees hes paid for services he has received. HSBC has made clear that if it 
suspects business transactions are been made through a personal account it may give 
notice to close the accounts. I think HSBC has alerted Mr E to the risk of this happening in 
future based on what hes said.
I appreciate he will be disappointed by my decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman