DRN-2018619
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint about TSB Bank plc (TSB) relates to the application of charges to his 
account which led him into an unauthorised overdraft position and a default being registered 
on his credit file.
What happened
Mr B had an account which had monthly fees charged to it at the beginning of each month. 
Mr B used his account on 25 January 2019 leaving a small balance, and on 2 February the 
monthly charges were applied putting the account in an overdrawn position.
As the account wasnt brought back into credit, interest and charges accrued. TSB said they 
wrote to Mr B in March, April and May to make him aware of the position. As Mr B hadnt 
responded to them, TSB closed the account and wrote off the balance in May. They then 
registered a default.
Mr B said he went into a branch in February 2019 and closed his account withdrawing the 
balance. He said he had never received any of texts or letters because he had moved to a 
new house.
TSB thought they had followed their procedure correctly and hadnt done anything wrong. Mr 
B was unhappy with their final response and asked this service to see if we could assist in 
resolving the dispute. Our investigator looked into the complaint but thought TSB hadnt 
done anything wrong.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. 
Mr B said that he went into the branch in February and closed his account withdrawing his 
balance. Ive looked at the account statement which shows that there was a small balance 
on the account on 20 January reducing to less than a pound on 25 January. There were no 
further transactions during the remainder of January. The monthly account fee was applied 
on 2 February moving the account into overdraft. 
As Mr B says he went into the branch and withdrew his balance in February, it must mean 
he went in on the first or second of that month.  But his bank statements dont show any 
withdrawal so I think he must be mistaken about that. And as he says he also closed his 
account on the same day he withdrew the balance, I think hes also mistaken about that too. 
And he couldnt have closed the account and withdrawn the balance after 2 February 
because it was in overdraft.
So, it follows that the monthly fee, which Mr B accepts was applicable to that account, was 
properly charged on 2 February. That put the account into the overdrawn position. 
Ive considered what TSB did to notify Mr B about the overdraft position and I can see they 
wrote to him and used text messaging. Mr B has said he didnt get the letters because he 
had moved, and I can accept that in those circumstances he wouldnt have received the 
letters. But, TSB sent the letters to the last address they had for Mr B and as he hadnt told 
them hed moved I cant say they have been at fault. And TSB have also produced evidence 
to show that a text message was sent on the 10 May. So, I think theres sufficient evidence 
here to show TSB did try to contact Mr B.
I must also take account of the fact that it is each customers responsibility to manage their 
accounts and that would include updating TSB with a change of address. Mr B could also 
have seen his account status on line, although I accept if he thought hed closed the account 
he would have had little need to check it. But, whilst I know Mr B says he didnt see the need 
to update TSB because he thought the account was closed, I note he also had a savings 
account with them which wasnt closed until August. That means he ought to have updated 
TSB anyway.
Mr Bs account was ultimately closed and defaulted, and I cant say TSB acted unfairly here 
because they followed the correct process. The account was overdrawn, it was attracting 
charges and interest, they attempted to contact him, and Mr B didnt return the account to 
credit. 
So, in conclusion I cant say TSB have acted unfairly and Im not going to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman