DRN-3160425
The complaint
Mr O has complained about Covea Insurance plcs handling of a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
Reference to Covea includes its agents.
What happened
Mr O was in an accident with another driver (the third party). He didn't initially claim from his 
own policy and instead instructed solicitors to act for him. But the third party claimed against 
Mr Os policy holding him to blame for the accident.
Mr O provided dash cam footage of the incident. After looking at that Covea told Mr O its 
likely he would be held mostly to blame for the accident with a 75/25% liability split. The third 
partys insurer held Mr O 100% liable for the accident. As the two sides couldn't agree on 
liability the matter was referred to an independent arbitrator. The arbitrator found both Mr O 
and the third party equally to blame on a 50/50 split liability basis.
Mr O wasn't happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He didn't think Covea needed to take any further action. Mr O 
didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
I understand Mr O is convinced that he wasn't at all to blame for the accident and he thinks 
that the guidance given in the Highway Code supports his position. I need to make clear that 
it's not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident. And, like all motor policies, Mr Os 
policy allows Covea to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it doesnt require Mr Os 
consent to decide how to settle a claim and it may make a decision that he doesnt agree 
with. But Ill look to see whether or not its done so reasonably.
Covea had the benefit of reviewing the dash cam footage Mr O submitted. That shows him 
overtaking one car then, while remaining on the opposite side of the road, attempting to 
overtake the third party before turning right. The footage also shows that, before hed caught 
up with the third party, she indicated to turn right and, as she turned, the two cars collided. 
Having viewed that footage Covea thought that Mr O was largely to blame for the accident. 
Mr O argued that the Highway Code says that the driver in front should have checked her 
mirrors before making her turn, so he believed she was to blame. But I can understand why 
Covea wasnt persuaded by Mr Os arguments. He made his overtaking manoeuvre from a 
long way back, and it seems hed have had ample time to pull in behind the third partys car 
on the left hand side of the road before she indicated to turn right. And if hed done that the 
accident wouldn't have happened. So I can understand why, initially at least, Covea felt that 
Mr O was largely to blame for the accident, while still holding the third party partially at fault. 
So I think its initial stance on who was to blame for the accident was reasonable, even 
though I understand why Mr O doesnt agree with that view. 
But Covea and the third party insurer couldn't agree on liability, so they arranged to refer the 
matter to an independent arbitrator to decide. I think that was a reasonable thing for Covea 
to do. In a situation like this, where the two sides can't agree, then other than allowing the 
case to be decided at arbitration, the only other likely option was to let the matter be decided 
in court. But arbitration is generally a more informal, less expensive and quicker resolution to 
a dispute of this nature. And I think it was fair for Covea to take this route to settle the claim 
rather than allowing the matter to go to court.
Where a case goes to arbitration, the arbitrator doesn't represent either side to the claim and 
instead operates from an impartial point of view. So Covea isn't responsible for the 
arbitrators decision. And its usual for that decision to be binding on both sides to it. That 
means that once the arbitrator's come to their conclusion, Covea wasn't in a position to 
challenge it. 
In this case the arbitrator decided that a fair outcome was an equally shared liability split. 
That was a better outcome than Covea had initially offered. I understand Mr O remains 
unhappy with that and he believes that if hed been allowed to give evidence to the arbitrator 
himself then the arbitrator would have ruled in his favour. But, as I understand it, unless the 
arbitrator asks for more evidence its usual for them to make their decisions based on the 
evidence supplied by the parties. The arbitrator didn't ask for any extra evidence. And, 
having reviewed the file, I'm not persuaded there was further evidence that Covea could 
have supplied that would likely have changed the outcome in Mr Os favour. So, once the 
arbitrator had issued his decision there was little Covea could reasonably do about it, 
regardless of whether Mr O agreed with that decision or not. And given that I think Coveas 
decision to refer the matter to arbitrators was reasonable I don't think it needs to take any 
further action.
Further, I've noted Mr O believes Covea treated him unfairly because he wasn't born in the 
UK. But I've seen no evidence beyond Mr Os comments that Covea treated him unfairly. 
And he hasn't provided any specific allegation of Covea being biased against him save for 
the fact he didn't agree with its stance on liability. But, just because an insurer makes a 
decision its policyholder disagrees with doesn't mean that the insurer has acted with any 
form of bias. And I think thats the case here. So I'm satisfied there's no persuasive evidence 
that Covea treated Mr O unfairly because of his nationality. 
For completeness I'll add that Mr O believed the arbitrators decision caused his solicitors to 
drop the claim he was making against the third party. I havent seen any evidence from 
Mr Os solicitors setting out why they dropped his claim. But both Covea and the arbitrator 
himself made it clear that his decision only affected the insurance claim alone. And the 
arbitrators letter said his decision had no standing in respect of any other claim for personal 
injury or any other uninsured losses that either side wished to pursue. So, as far as I can tell, 
the arbitrators conclusion shouldn't have prevented or affected any such claim Mr O wished 
to pursue. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman