DRN-3736846
The complaint
Mr G complains that esure Insurance Limited unfairly recorded a fault claim against him and 
increased the premium for his motor insurance.
What happened
Mr G had a motor insurance policy with esure. In June 2021, esure was contacted by a third 
party insurer about an accident. The third party said Mr Gs car had hit their car on 10 May 
2021. The third partys insurer held Mr G liable for the accident.
esure contacted Mr G, who said he hadnt been involved in any accident. He also told esure 
hed sold his car before the date of the accident. esure asked Mr G for evidence hed sold 
his car, however he didnt provide this.
In January 2022 the case went to arbitration. The third party insurer said it had a photo of Mr 
Gs car from the accident scene. Based on this evidence, esure accepted liability and 
recorded a fault claim against Mr G. This meant Mr Gs insurance premium increased at 
renewal the same month.
Mr G is unhappy esure recorded the accident as a fault against him when hes adamant he 
wasnt involved in the accident. He wants esure to remove the claim from his record, 
reimburse the extra cost of his insurance premium, and compensate him for the time hes 
spent trying to sort this out. 
Since this service got involved, esure has accepted that the photo provided by the third party 
insurer doesnt show Mr Gs car. esure acknowledged that it shouldnt have accepted liability 
for the accident, and following discussions with us, agreed to:
Remove the claim from Mr Gs record and the Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE).
Increase Mr Gs no claims discount by one year.
Refund Mr G the difference between what he paid for his insurance premium for 
2022/23 and what this should have been without the claim recorded against him.
It also offered to pay Mr G £200 for its error and to reflect the inconvenience this caused 
him. 
Mr G didnt accept that £200 was enough to reflect the distress this has caused him, so the 
case was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 September 2022. I said:
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy, esure can take over, defend, or settle a 
claim as it sees fit (General Conditions, paragraph 3). This is common in car insurance 
policies and esure doesnt need Mr G to agree this. This also means esure can make a 
decision Mr G doesnt agree with. If it does, I can decide if that decision was fair and 
reasonable.
When we asked esure to prove to us that the photo at the accident scene showed Mr Gs 
car, it realised the registration wasnt the same as Mr Gs car and agreed to the redress set 
out above. Im glad esure has accepted its mistake and agreed to fix this. Im satisfied that 
the proposed redress is in line with what this service would ask esure to do in similar 
circumstances. 
The only issue left for me to determine is the compensation esure should pay Mr G for not 
realising this earlier. Its clear that esure caused Mr G unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience by accepting liability for an accident he wasnt involved in. 
Mr G doesnt think £200 is enough. He says, in summary:
The offer doesnt reflect the amount of stress this caused him.
He spent countless hours on the phone with multiple members of esure staff trying 
to resolve this.
He doesnt think esure took this seriously enough.
This matter should have been resolved quickly and not had to be referred to this 
service.
Having considered these points  and looked at what this service awards in similar 
circumstances  I agree with Mr G that esures offer is too low. I think a more realistic award 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr G is £350.
Finally, Mr G has asked us to confirm the refund amount for his insurance premium. Id like 
esure to send us its calculation of this refund when it replies to my provisional decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr G had no further comments about my provisional decision. However, he told us hed 
already started to receive refunds but doesnt understand how theyve been calculated.
esure sent us underwriting information and premium history for Mr Gs policy for the last two 
years. This shows:
Mr Gs premium for 2022/23 was originally £1,942.54. 
esures underwriter told us his premium would have been £1,505.46 if the fault claim 
hadnt been on Mr Gs policy and his full NCD applied.
Mr G made an amendment to his policy in May 2022. Specifically, he added driving 
other cars cover to his policy. This increased his monthly premiums from June 2022. 
Because of this amendment, esure had to make two refund calculations: one for the insured 
period before 19 May 2022, to be refunded to Mr G as a one-off payment; and a separate 
calculation for the insured period after that, to be refunded by a reduction in monthly 
premiums for the remaining policy term. These are set out below:
the refund for the period 15 January to 18 May 2022 was £148.08.
the refund for the period 19 May 2022 to 15 January 2023 was £333.06. esure will 
apply this refund by reducing Mr Gs monthly premiums to £39.85 for the last four 
months of the policy year, starting in September 2022.
This means the total refund to Mr G  split between the one-off payment of £148.08 and £333.03 reduction in premiums over four months  is £481.14.
esure also said it still thought £200 was fair compensation in this case. It said Mr G should 
have either sent proof hed sold his car or cancelled his policy. If hed done so, the third party 
claim wouldnt have been directed to esure because esure wouldnt have shown as the 
insurer for Mr Gs car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed esures calculation for Mr Gs revised premium and Im satisfied the refunds 
are correct. I understand esure has already reduced Mr Gs monthly premiums and is in the 
process of refunding him for the period January to May 2022.
The only outstanding issue is my award for the distress esure caused Mr G. 
esure said Mr G didnt reply when it asked him for evidence hed sold his car. I understand 
this argument and I find it difficult to understand why Mr G didnt do this. However, Id 
already thought about this when I made my provisional decision and it doesnt change the 
fact that esure accepted liability for an accident without any evidence Mr Gs car had been 
involved. The only evidence the third partys insurer provided was a photo that doesnt show 
Mr Gs car. 
I dont accept esures argument that Mr G could have cancelled his policy. He had a new car 
which he needed to insure, and he did this by amending his policy in May 2021. Indeed, this 
amendment gave some support to his statement that he was no longer driving the car the 
third party said was involved in the accident. 
Im satisfied the reasons I set out in my provisional decision remain valid. I see no reason to 
change my award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint for the same reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, and require esure Insurance Limited to:
Remove the claim from Mr Gs record and the Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE).
Increase Mr Gs no claims discount by one year.
Refund Mr G the difference between what he paid for his insurance premium for 
2022/23 and what this should have been without the claim recorded against him.
Pay Mr G £350 to reflect the inconvenience this caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman