DRN-3728322
The complaint
Miss B says Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, has treated her unfairly in 
relation to a credit card transaction which paid towards a package holiday.
What happened
In March 2021 Miss B booked a package holiday departing in mid-October 2021. She paid 
part of the cost on her Madison credit card. The total cost was over £2200 and was for a 
flights and accommodation package for four people on an all-inclusive basis. She 
purchased the holiday from a company Ill call Firm V. She and the other travellers went on 
the holiday but complained that the services available werent as advertised and were of a 
poor standard. So she complained to Firm V, who didnt agree or refund her.
Miss B complained to another bank, whos card shed used to pay for some of this holiday. 
That bank has refunded her just over £1604. So Miss B wants Madison to refund the 
outstanding cost of her holiday which is just over £660. Madison looked into the matter but 
decided not to refund Miss B. So Miss B, still unsatisfied, brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our Investigator looked into the matter and thought part of Madisons reasoning was wrong. 
However he felt that for different reasons Madison didnt have to do any more. And Miss B 
remains unhappy and so this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B used her Madison credit card to part pay Firm V for the holiday. This means that if 
certain criteria are met Madison can have certain responsibilities to Miss B which arise from 
the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In 
summary in certain circumstances Section 75 has the effect of allowing Miss B to hold 
Madison liable for breaches of contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the 
agreement made. In essence Madison can be held responsible for a like claim against Firm 
V.
Furthermore Miss Bs Madison credit card is part of a card scheme which is operated by the 
card scheme operators (not Madison). And this scheme has rules which includes giving 
Madison an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants such as Firm V, 
namely through the Chargeback process. This isnt a right for consumers and the ultimate 
decision maker on such chargebacks is the card scheme operator itself and not Madison. So 
it is possible that Madison could take the Chargeback process as far as possible and Miss B 
still not be successful.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Madison and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Miss B fairly. This decision isnt directly a decision 
about Firm V or the hotel supplier, which arent within this Services remit for complaints 
regarding Chargeback and S75. It is about whether Madison considered the dispute properly 
through the two processes Ive described. I hope this key distinction is clear.
could Madison challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
Miss B doesnt dispute that she used her Madison credit card here. So I dont think Madison 
couldve challenged any such transaction on the basis Miss B didnt properly authorise such 
a transaction, given what Ive just set out. Madison is required to consider whether there is a 
reasonable prospect of success when it is considering whether to go through the 
Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the process, then it must do so properly. 
And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think there remains a 
reasonable prospect of success.
Madison has said that there were insufficient grounds to raise a chargeback and so it didnt 
do so. The chargeback process is purely a dispute process raised by a bank on behalf of the 
consumer with the Merchant to which the Merchant can respond. Bearing in mind that Firm 
V didnt agree with the complaint made to it originally, I think it would have likely defended 
the chargeback. Ive considered the chargeback reasons under the scheme rules and note 
that the flights and accommodation were provided. I also note that in terms and conditions, 
there was the term regarding insignificant changes to the contract (referred to in Firm Vs 
email of 08 November 2021) and that Firm V considered the changes that happened were 
insignificant as described in the contract. I note that under the terms there are examples of 
significant changes which seem significantly more impactful on holidaymakers than what 
Miss B describes here. Having considered all that happened on balance Im not persuaded a 
chargeback would have been successful for these reasons. And accordingly I dont think 
Miss B has lost out by Madison not raising a chargeback.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Miss Bs claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. It is clear Miss B booked a packaged holiday. I am satisfied it was a 
package trip for the purposes of the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements 
Regulations 2018 (PTR) because it was a combination of flights and accommodation. And 
the 2018 PTRs explicitly place liability for the performance of the travel and accommodation 
services included in the package on the organiser (regulation 15) irrespective of whether the 
services are performed by third parties. And Regulation 15 defines the organiser as the 
trader who combines and sells packages. And accordingly its clear to me that Madisons 
original stance of saying the required arrangement wasnt in place was obviously wrong. And 
Im heartened it has since accepted that.
For Madison to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown that 
the supplier (Firm V or the hotel or flight company) either breached the contract or materially 
misrepresented something to Miss B which made a difference. Madison has since explained 
that due to the substantial refund that Miss B has had in relation to this contract, that 
whether or not there was a breach of contract, the amount Miss B has already received 
means it doesnt have to do anything more. In essence its saying even if it concluded there 
was a breach it wouldnt refund anymore because Miss B has already been sufficiently 
refunded.
So is a larger refund due?Miss B has pointed to a number of services being curtailed or not provided, and that a 
number of the facilities were closed throughout the holiday. She also says that the few 
services provided werent to her liking. However I note in Miss Bs arguments there is only a 
passing reference to the pandemic. The holiday was for ten nights from the middle of 
October 2021 until towards the end of October 2021. And the country where the resort was 
had a significant resurgence in Covid cases during that time. It is also clear that international 
travel and international holidaymaking at that time was substantially less then prior to the 
pandemic. And thus it is understandable why facilities werent as normal. And as Firm V has 
pointed to in its terms and conditions that services and facilities are not guaranteed in any 
event.
It is also clear that Miss B and her group flew as scheduled and returned as scheduled also. 
So theyve clearly had the benefit of the flights. And although the accommodation was 
clearly not what they would have wished, they were provided accommodation throughout 
and some of the other services advertised, albeit limited in a number of ways.
I can see from the booking confirmation the relative costs of the flights compared to the 
accommodation. And if I take the flights out of the equation (as they were utilised) and 
consider the refund Miss B has already received, in effect Miss B and her group have had 
ten days all-inclusive hotel stay for less than £50 total. And all her complaints werent about 
the flights, they were solely about the hotel and the services it provided and the facilities 
available at the resort. And although clearly Miss B doesnt feel she should pay anything 
towards this holiday it is clear that there was some benefit gained from being accommodated 
for the duration of the holiday and the utilised flights. So I think it would be unfair for Madison 
and the other bank to pay entirely for Miss B and fellow travellers entire holiday considering 
this.
I must also consider the terms of the contract Miss B agreed with Firm V. In essence it says 
insignificant changes to the contract, which is what Firm V says happened here, would 
mean as theyre classed as insignificant Miss B wouldnt have a claim against Firm V for any 
form of refund or remedy for such changes. So it is clear Miss B wouldnt be entitled to any 
money back for what are termed insignificant changes.
And even if I consider the terms in relation to significant changes I note that the only 
remedy available in the agreed contract once the holiday goes ahead is a price reduction. 
And bearing in mind the significant refund already received that equates in essence to a 
price reduction as far as Miss B is concerned.
Miss B has said she would not have gone on the holiday had she known the service to be 
provided. Firm V has classified the changes as insignificant changes. And considering the 
list of examples of significant change I can see these dont apply here. But if shed have 
known of such insignificant changes and cancelled then shed have been liable to the 
cancellation clauses in the contract. And Im not persuaded that either Madison or this 
service has seen evidence of such changes being notified to Firm V. Or that by not notifying 
Miss B of such issues that Firm V had breached the contract. And even if I had seen such 
evidence, bearing in mind Miss B went on the holiday, a price reduction would have been the 
applicable remedy. Which is essentially what has happened through the refund already 
received.
I understand that Miss B is very disappointed in the holiday that she received. However I 
think the refund shes already had is fair considering the relative costs of the package and 
what was delivered. And Im not persuaded Miss B has done enough to show it would be fair 
for her to receive any more of a refund considering what happened. So Im satisfied Miss Bs 
complaint shouldnt be successful.I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Miss B wishes to read. And I appreciate that 
this decision will mean Miss B avenues for recouping the outstanding cost of the holiday (as 
is clearly her wish) is significantly limited. But Im satisfied Madisons position of not 
providing further refund on top of what Miss B has already received is fair. So it doesnt have 
to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Madison CF UK 
Limited, trading as 118 118 Money. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman