DRN-3375234
The complaint
Ms G, who is represented by her daughter, says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D 
Williams) irresponsibly lent to her. She has requested that the interest and late payment 
charges she paid on her account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account provided by J D Williams to Ms G. 
The account was opened in April 2019 with Ms G being given an initial credit limit of £500. 
That limit was increased 4 times until it reached £1750 in May 2020. 
Ms G says shes unhappy that J D Williams approved her account application given that 
she is retired and on benefits. She says J D Williams continued to increase her credit limits 
when she was experiencing financial difficulty.
Our adjudicator at first said that she thought J D Williams may have had acted unfairly in 
the way it managed the account. But when she looked at the complaint again after J D 
Williams came back with some more information about the account, she said that she 
didnt think it had lent to Ms G irresponsibly. 
As Ms G didnt agree her complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J D Williams will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
J D Williams says it acted as a responsible lender when opening Ms Gs account and 
increasing her credit limits. Our adjudicator has set out in some detail why ultimately she 
didnt think J D Williams had lent to Ms G irresponsibly. 
In making my decision Ive looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history with 
Ms G, so as to see if there was a point at which J D Williams should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean 
J D Williams should have realised that it shouldnt have further increased Ms Gs credit 
limits.
Having reviewed the complaint in detail, Ive reached the same outcome as our adjudicator.
When Ms G opened her account in April 2019, J D Williams says there were no signs of 
Ms G having financial difficulties based on the checks it carried out. Having reviewed the 
checks, and taking into account the opening credit limit of £500 she was given, I dont think 
there is anything to suggest that it would have been unreasonable for J D Williams to have 
approved opening the account at that time. Ive noticed from what Ive seen that J D Williams 
didnt ask about Ms Gs income - something that may have helped in building a picture of her 
financial circumstances and therefore whether the account was suitable. 
Looking at the first three credit limit increases J D Williams gave Ms G between October and 
December 2019, I agree with our adjudicator that it would have been helpful for J D Williams 
to have found out more about Ms Gs financial situation and in particular to verify her level of 
committed income and expenditure. Ive seen that there was a single missed payment in 
August 2019 which J D Williams has confirmed was a late payment. It also clarified that a 
separate payment below the minimum in July 2019 was in fact an overpayment due to 
adjustments made to the account. Overall therefore, I think from what Ms G has told us 
about her income at the time, had J D Williams carried out further checks, its likely it would 
have found that the minimum payments Ms G was making on her account over this period 
showed it was affordable. 
When J D Williams gave Ms G a fourth credit limit increase, in May 2020, I think it should 
have requested details of Ms Gs income, daily expenditure and debts owing elsewhere. 
Ive noted J D Williams has recently explained to our adjudicator that what appeared to be 
a missed repayment in April 2020 had arisen from a purchase or purchases not being 
received, with Ms G then making the adjusted payment that was due. 
Ive also kept in mind that Ms G had a historic default, which J D Williams doesnt seem to 
have been aware of until August 2019. This  again is something that I think ought to have 
prompted further enquiry by J D Williams about Ms Gs financial situation and how she was 
managing her day to day expenses and potentially other credit commitments. But I agree 
with our adjudicator that based on what weve seen, had it done so it seems unlikely that it 
would have changed its lending decision. I say that taking into account that it looks like 
Ms Gs income and expenditure was such that shed have enough disposable income to 
able to meet her repayments. And having considered that alongside what we now know 
about Ms Gs payment history, I havent seen enough to reasonably show or suggest to 
J D Williams that Ms G was having difficulties in meeting her monthly repayments. 
I dont think the information we have about Ms Gs financial situation at the time is enough 
to be able to find that had J D Williams carried out additional checks, it would have found 
these credit limit increases to be unsustainable. From what Ive seen Im satisfied that Ms G 
was managing her account in such a way that she wasnt using a significant proportion of 
the credit limit that J D Williams had made available to her. 
It follows that, in the specific circumstances of this case, I dont think J D Williams 
actions in increasing Ms Gs credit limit in the way it did would have caused Ms G a loss. 
And Im not persuaded that further enquiries into Ms Gs circumstances would have led 
J D Williams to conclude that it should have taken a course of action that was 
significantly different to what it did. 
So, although I dont think J D Williams actions were necessarily appropriate in all 
respects, I dont make any award as I dont think Ms G was caused any loss or material 
distress or inconvenience as a result.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman