DRN-3666336
The complaint
Mr J, Mrs J and Mrs M have complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) will 
not extend their mortgage term by five years. Mrs M has dealt with the complaint throughout 
on behalf of all parties.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 2 August 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr J, Mrs J and Mrs M being identified. So for 
these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In 2004 Mr J, Mrs J and Mrs M took out an interest-only mortgage with NatWest. The 
mortgage term came to an end in July 2021, when the full balance of approximately 
£155,000 was due to be repaid. Mr J, Mrs J and Mrs M didnt want to repay the mortgage 
and asked NatWest for a five-year term extension. NatWest declined this as it didnt meet its 
lending criteria. For an interest-only mortgage, the maximum age limit is 70, and Mrs J is in 
her 90s. In addition, extending on a capital and interest basis wouldnt be possible as the 
maximum age limit for this is 80.
A variation agreement was entered into, extending the date for repayment of the mortgage 
for a year, with repayments to be made during that period at NatWests standard variable 
rate (SVR). This was done in order to give Mr J, Mrs J and Mrs M a grace period within 
which to arrange the finances to repay the mortgage. 
Mr J, Mrs J and Mrs M complained, but NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. In its final 
response letter, the bank noted that Mr J, Mrs J and Mrs M had access to funds that would 
be sufficient to repay the mortgage, but didnt want to do so, as there would be some 
expense involved. NatWest said it had applied its lending criteria fairly, but could not agree 
to extend the term as requested.
Mrs M thought that NatWest wasnt being fair and complained to our service, with Mr J and 
Mrs J giving their consent to the complaint. She said that, because the property is held in 
trust, it hadnt been possible to re-mortgage elsewhere. Mrs M also explained that she didnt 
want to use existing assets to repay the mortgage. 
An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He said it was reasonable for NatWest to expect repayment at the end of the term, 
and that it was fair for NatWest to allow a further year to raise the funds to repay the 
mortgage.
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators findings. Shes made some further points, which I 
summarise below:
when the mortgage was taken out in 2004 Mrs J was approximately 75 years old, so 
over the maximum age at the time (which Mrs M says was 65);
the application isnt contrary to policy because the bank is lending to a Trust, which can 
continue in perpetuity beyond the lifetime of any of the trustees and so the mortgage can 
also continue beyond their lifetimes;
the bank hasnt treated them fairly; if NatWest had extended the term, it would have 
been on a five-year fixed rate, but instead they are paying SVR, which is unfair;
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. I dont think NatWest has acted unfairly, and these are my reasons for deciding 
this.
The starting point here is that the mortgage was due to be repaid in July 2021; that was the 
binding contract entered into by Mr J , Mrs J and Mrs M in 2004. I see from its internal notes 
that NatWest wrote to Mr J, Mrs J and Mrs M several times before the term expired, 
reminding them of the end date of the mortgage, that the balance would need to be repaid at 
that time and asking for details of their repayment proposals. On 12 February 2021 NatWest 
spoke to Mrs M who told the bank she wanted to extend the mortgage term. Mrs M was 
unhappy that this would need to be a full application and that she couldnt do this herself. Im 
satisfied that NatWest is entitled to have a full application process for a term extension, in 
order to ascertain if the application meets its current lending criteria. 
In this respect, NatWest is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that NatWest 
makes in respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular 
lending assessment, and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly 
discretionary matters for NatWests own commercial judgement that I would not interfere 
with. In this case, the application didnt meet criteria, due to Mrs Js age, and so the 
application didnt proceed any further. Ive noted what Mrs M has said about NatWests 
criteria in 2004, but what I am considering is whether it was fair for NatWest to apply its 
current lending criteria in 2021, and Im satisfied that it was. I think it was fair and reasonable 
for NatWest to allow a further 12 months for the mortgage to be repaid. This was at its SVR, 
and although Mrs M wasnt happy about the increase in the mortgage repayments, Im not 
persuaded NatWest has done anything wrong here. It wouldnt have been possible to 
arrange a new interest rate product because the bank wasnt granting a term extension, only 
a grace period, as per the variation agreement which Mr J, Mrs J and Mrs M accepted. 
Ive also noted what Mrs M said about the bank having lent to a Trust. It may well be that 
the equitable interest in the property is held on trust by Mr J, Mrs J and Mrs M, but this is of 
no relevance to NatWest, because the mortgage is to them as individuals. Therefore there is 
no merit to Mrs Ms argument that the mortgage can continue in perpetuity beyond the 
lifetime of the borrowers. 
In fact, the grace period granted by the bank in the variation agreement came to an end in 
August 2022, and so the mortgage is now due to be repaid. I understand that there is no 
repayment plan, and that no payment proposals have been put to the bank because the only 
outcome Mrs M wants is for a term extension to be granted. However, Im satisfied NatWest 
isnt under any obligation to agree to this. To be clear, where NatWest has fairly applied its 
lending criteria, I dont have any power to substitute my own decision for that of the bank.In the absence of firm payment proposals supported by evidence, as a last resort NatWest 
will be entitled to take possession proceedings. I am sure, given what Mrs M has told us, that 
this will not be necessary; I understand she has assets available that she could use, albeit 
with some refinancing of other properties, to repay the mortgage. I appreciate that may come 
with some expense, but Mr J, Mrs J and Mrs M are now at the point where difficult choices 
will need to be made about how to repay this mortgage. 
I do not wish to alarm Mr J, Mrs J and Mrs M, but I cannot underestimate the seriousness of 
the situation in which they are now in. If, as a last resort, this was to go to court, the courts 
powers to assist borrowers with expired mortgage terms are extremely limited. So I would 
urge Mr J, Mrs J and Mrs M to take swift action to repay the mortgage in order to avoid 
possession proceedings. 
It may assist Mr J, Mrs J and Mrs M to take some advice from an independent financial 
adviser who specialists in residential mortgages. The Financial Conduct Authority website 
will have details of advisers for them to choose from. In addition, given that Mrs M has told 
us that the way the property is held in trust is causing difficulty re-mortgaging, they might 
also want to speak to a solicitor who specialists in trusts to see if this difficulty can be 
overcome. The Law Society website has a directory of specialists solicitors.
My final decision
I know Mr J, Mrs J and Mrs M will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold 
this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J, Mr J and 
Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman