DRN-1726779
 
 
Complaint
Mrs D complains about the difficulties she experienced when trying to use her debit card with 
London Mutual Credit Union Limited (LMCU) including when she was abroad. She says its 
actions caused her significant trouble and upset and led to her incurring telephone costs.  
Background
Mrs D has a current account with LMCU. LMCU issued her with a debit card, which she can 
use in the UK and abroad. Mrs D says that before travelling abroad she always informs 
LMCU about her plans but despite this her card is still declined. Mrs D has provided details 
about declined card payments since June 2018 to illustrate the difficulties using her card.
In 2018, Mrs D travelled abroad. She contacted LMCU before she left but the card was still 
declined when she was away. She contacted LMCU about this and it told her that the card 
had been stopped and a replacement card would be issued. It arranged for the replacement 
card and PIN to be sent to her but Mrs D says she didnt receive this for another 12 days. 
She says that as a result of this she had no option but to abandon part of her travel plans. 
She also says that she had to spend time and money phoning LMCU to try to get things 
sorted out.
The following year Mrs D travelled abroad again. And once again she contacted LMCU 
before she left but despite this her card was declined at the airport before she left and then 
again at the airport before she returned. She says that she has not been given a valid 
reason for the declined payments and that LMCU is using its anti fraud prevention measures 
as an excuse for bad service. 
She complained to LMCU. It said that in 2018 there was a much publicised data breach by a 
retailer. Mrs Ds card details had been compromised as a result of that data breach and to 
prevent fraud LMCU had to replace her card. It says that it made special arrangements to 
courier the replacement card and PIN to her when she was abroad. 
LMCU also provided details about other card payments that it had declined during the period 
since June 2018. It said that each time it had declined a card payment on Mrs Ds card it had 
done so because of its anti fraud prevention measures. It also said that it had not declined 
any payments when Mrs D was abroad in 2019. Mrs D had informed it about a card payment 
being declined on the day that she was returning from abroad but LMCU said that it had not 
declined the payment. It said that the payment may have been declined because of how the 
merchant had processed the payment but LMCU couldnt be responsible for that. 
LMCU did accept that it should have been clearer when Mrs D contacted it before she 
travelled abroad and should have explained to her:
her card would still be subject to fraud referral rules when a referral was made it could only be dealt with inside LMCUs normal working 
hours and this could mean delays; and
she shouldnt rely only on her debit card as a source of finance.
LMCU apologised to Mrs D for not having made these things clearer and on this basis it 
upheld her complaint. But LMCU didnt agree that it should pay Mrs D any compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience she had suffered as a result of the card being declined.
Mrs D was unhappy with this response. She said that LMCU should compensate her for 
ruining her holiday plans in 2018 and for the time and money she had spent on phone calls. 
She referred her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into the matter. She did not uphold 
the complaint. She said that LMCU was not responsible for the issue that had arisen in 2018. 
It had a right to take measures to prevent fraud. The fraud risk had not arisen because of 
anything that LMCU had done and it had taken steps to try to get the card and PIN couriered 
to Mrs D as quickly as possible. Our investigator also considered in some detail a number of 
transactions that had been declined during 2018 and 2019. She thought that LMCU had 
given a satisfactory explanation for each decline based on its anti fraud protection measures. 
Because our investigator thought that LMCU had done nothing wrong she didnt agree that 
LMCU should pay Mrs D any compensation.
Mrs D disagreed with our investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 24 March 2020 in which I said:
"My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to award 
some compensation. Ill explain why. 
1.The replacement card - 2018
LMCU says that it stopped Mrs Ds card because the card details had been 
compromised as a result of the data breach. This meant that a fraudster could have 
used those card details, such as the long number that appears on the card, to access 
Mrs Ds account.  I think it was fair and reasonable for LMCU to take immediate action 
in these circumstances to protect Mrs Ds account. It could only do that by issuing a 
new (replacement) card. The replacement card would have had a different long 
number.
Mrs D contacted LMCU because her old card was declined before she got the 
replacement card. After talking to Mrs D about her circumstances, LMCU agreed to 
courier the replacement card and PIN to her at her address abroad. She received this 
12 days later.
Ive thought about the action that LMCU took here. I think it was entitled to stop the 
card and issue a replacement card. I also think that it took steps to try to get the new 
card and PIN to Mrs D as soon as reasonably practicable given the fact that the 
replacement card wouldve had to be printed before being couriered to a foreign 
location. 
Ive asked LMCU if it made any special arrangements for members who were abroad 
when it took this action as I can see how this could have led to greater difficulties. It 
 told me that it had made a risk based decision to cancel all of the impacted cards but 
had reached out to all of its affected members through text messages. Ive thought 
about whether this was enough. I can see that when Mrs D contacted LMCU it did 
make special arrangements for her. But, she had to initiate that contact because her old card was declined before she got the replacement card. So, I think its fair and 
reasonable that she should be compensated for the time and money that she spent 
making international phone calls to try to get those special arrangements in place. Ill 
comment further below on the level of compensation that I think is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Mrs D also says that she should be compensated because she was unable to 
complete part of her holiday schedule as she had no means to make payments for an 
additional trip that she wanted to make. I can understand how Mrs D must have felt 
since it appears that the debit card was her main method of making payments whilst 
she was away. I agree that it wouldve been better if LMCU had made this clear to Mrs 
D when she contacted it to say that she was going to travel abroad. But Mrs D has told 
us that her card had been declined in the past. So, on balance, I think  she wouldve 
known that if the card was declined or stopped for any reason (for example if it had 
been lost or stolen) then she needed to have an alternative method of making 
payments. For that reason, I dont agree that LMCU is responsible for these losses. 
2.Card declines since the replacement card was issued
I've looked at each card payment that was declined in this period. I can see that LMCU 
says the reason for these declines (apart from one which I will consider further below) 
is its anti-fraud prevention policy. Its fair and reasonable for LMCU to develop and 
implement its own policies and procedures to detect and prevent fraud. This is in the 
interests of its members since it helps to protect them and their accounts. So, I dont 
agree with Mrs D that LMCU is just using this as an excuse for bad service. 
Ive also looked at the actions LMCU took when it declined the card. Ive considered, 
in particular, whether LMCU complied with its own terms and conditions and whether it 
acted fairly and reasonably each time that it declined the card.
The terms and conditions state:
If we refuse to make a payment, well let you know why as soon as we 
reasonably can, unless the law or any regulation prevents us from doing so. If 
we arent able to tell you in advance then well contact you as soon as possible 
afterwards (and at the latest by the end of the day on which the payment should 
have been received).
So, I wouldve expected LMCU to contact Mrs D each time that her card was declined. 
LMCU says that if a card payment is declined outside of normal business hours it joins 
a queue which it then works through on the next business day. This wouldve meant 
that if Mrs Ds card was declined in the evening, at weekends or when she was 
travelling abroad in a different time zone, it was more likely that she would have to 
contact LMCU before it would contact her. Mrs D was likely to incur additional expense 
as a result. LMCU acknowledges that it did not tell Mrs D about this and I think it 
reasonably should have. 
Having considered each of the declined payments I can find one occasion where Mrs 
D incurred additional expense because of this. On the day that she was leaving to 
travel abroad in 2019 a card payment was declined outside of normal business hours 
and this meant that 2 further payments were declined before Mrs D left. She phoned 
LMCU about this and it was then able to authorise the payment that she had 
attempted to make at the airport. So, I think that its fair and reasonable that LMCU 
should provide a contribution to the time and cost of this UK telephone call. Ill comment further below on the level of compensation that I think is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Ive also looked at a payment that was declined whilst Mrs D was abroad in 2018. 
LMCU says that this payment was declined because it exceeded the single 
transaction limit. It says that it didnt advise Mrs D what this limit was but that if she 
had contacted it then the limit could have been raised. Since LMCU doesnt deal with 
requests of this nature outside of its usual working hours Mrs D was unable to 
purchase the item using her card.
I think that LMCU could have advised Mrs D of the single transaction limit in advance 
and I wouldve expected it to do this. I dont think this wouldve compromised LMCUs 
anti-fraud prevention measures. It would also have been good customer service to 
inform cardholders of what the spending limits were in advance.
I think Mrs D should be compensated as a result of this. She had to make a phone call 
about the decline and she wouldve experienced  embarrassment when the card was 
declined. 
Proposed fair compensation
Having thought about what happened, I think  £150 as compensation is fair and 
reasonable. It recognises the time and money she spent on the phone calls, referred 
to above, and the trouble and upset caused when her card was declined. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint in part. 
London Mutual Credit Union Limited should now pay Mrs D £150  as compensation for 
the time and money that she spent on phone calls and for the trouble and upset that 
she experienced as a result of its service.
I do not intend to uphold any other part of this complaint."
 
LMCU has accepted my provisional decision and has paid Mrs D £150 as required. Mrs D 
has asked me to consider further the humiliation and stress that she suffered when abroad. I 
can understand why Mrs D feels this way but as Ive said in my provisional decision I think 
that the proposed compensation is fair and reasonable given all the circumstances. So, I 
dont require LMCU to do anything more than that.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint in part.  London Mutual Credit Union 
Limited should pay Mrs D £150 by way of compensation (noting above that it has already 
done so). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
  
Irene Martin
Ombudsman