DRN-1651189
 
The complaint
Miss D and Mr S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss D and Mr S took out a PPI policy at the same time as they applied for a mortgage in 
1999. The sale took place in one of the banks branches. The policy was in Miss Ds sole 
name and gave her accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly 
amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Miss D and Mr S 
disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Miss D and Mr S say they never agreed to take out PPI. I cant know what was said in the 
meeting but Ive considered their comments carefully and looked at the available paperwork.
On their mortgage application form Miss D signed the PPI section to indicate that she 
wanted to take out cover. She then signed a separate PPI application form, answering a 
number of eligibility questions. The cost of the PPI was set out separately on this form. And I 
can't find anything on either form that I think could reasonably have led them to believe the 
PPI was mandatory. 
Overall, I think Halifax made it clear that the PPI was optional and Miss D and Mr S chose to 
take it out for Miss D. I can understand they might not remember this given how long ago the 
sale was.
Halifax recommended the PPI for Miss D to Miss D and Mr S so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for her  and based on what I know of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. Miss D said she was entitled to between six and 12 months' sick pay. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to her work benefits and for up to 24 months for each 
successful accident and sickness claim. It also gave her up to 24 months redundancy cover 
which would have allowed her to protect any lump sum redundancy payment from her 
employer, giving them increased financial stability whilst she wasnt working.Miss D and Mr S told us they had around £1000 in savings. The PPI would have allowed 
them to use these to cover other living expenses whilst Miss D wasn't working, or to keep 
them intact for their future needs. They say as Mr S was self-employed he would never have 
needed the PPI, but he wasn't covered by this policy - it was in Miss D's sole name.
Miss D and Mr S were borrowing a large sum over a long period, secured on their home. So 
the effects of not keeping up the repayments could have been serious for them. Overall, I 
think the PPI would have been useful for Miss D and Mr S if Miss D was sick, had an 
accident or lost her job.   
Its possible Halifax didnt give Miss D and Mr S all the information they needed before 
deciding to buy PPI. The cost was made clear on the PPI application form and it was set out 
separately on their mortgage quotations, and the cover was apparently affordable. But I dont 
know that the bank pointed out the main things the PPI didnt cover. But Miss D doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI wouldve changed their mind about buying it.
It follows I don't think Miss D and Mr S lost out because of any problems with this sale. They 
have asked why other PPI claims they've made to the same lender have been accepted. I 
can only comment here on the individual circumstances of this complaint. But I would add 
that the outcome of every complaint can vary based on a number of factors, including but not 
limited to - the method of sale, the credit product, the cost and benefit level and the terms 
and conditions, as well as the person's circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman