DRN-2333401
The complaint
Mr S complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) carried out a temporary repair to his 
roof which caused further damage.
What happened
A few days after a storm Mr S reported that his flat roof was leaking. IPA sent a contractor, 
who I will refer to as A, to inspect and repair the roof. The wrong type of mastic was used 
which didnt bond properly, meaning the roof continued to leak. Mr S contacted a roofer, who 
Ill refer to as B, and said the only way to rectify this was to remove the previous mastic and 
re-apply the correct one. But doing this may cause further damage to the roof. 
Mr S says the only way to achieve a permanent repair is to replace the entire roof. So, he 
feels IPAs initial poor repair means hes lost the opportunity to achieve a permanent repair 
without replacing the roof and thinks IPA should pay for this.
IPA accepts the initial repair failed but doesnt agree it should pay for a full replacement. It 
says the roof was in poor condition and the leak was likely to be due to wear and tear, and A 
recommended the roof be replaced. IPA says the policy only covers storm damage and as 
wear and tear had been identified, it couldnt offer any further assistance. However, it did 
reimburse what Mr S paid B to provide a further temporary repair and offered £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Bs report made it clear the roof 
needed to be replaced to complete the temporary repair or rectify mistakes with the initial 
repair. So, she didnt think IPA needed to take any further action as she wasnt persuaded 
there was evidence the roof needed replacing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy states that IPA will pay for, Call out charges, labour and parts or materials for 
immediate repairs to stabilise and remove the emergency. It also confirms IPA will, send 
a repairer to assess the situation and carry out emergency work The focus of the cover 
here is to resolve the emergency. 
Its not in dispute that the initial repair by A failed. But fortunately, Mr S was able to arrange 
for B to attend who resolved the emergency. For this inconvenience, IPA paid Mr S £100 
compensation which I think is reasonable. Im satisfied the compensation offered reflects the 
delay and inconvenience Mr S suffered in having to arrange his own repair.
What remains in dispute is whether IPA should be held liable to cover the cost of Mr S 
replacing the roof.
As report on the damage confirms the roof is old and there were no signs of storm damage. 
It goes on to confirm that temporary repairs had been made with mastic, but the leak was 
considered to be a wear and tear issue.
Upon realising the repairs had failed, Mr S got back in contact with IPA and I understand that 
A was reluctant to reattend due to the condition of the roof. Mr S contacted B who attended, 
stripped the old mastic and replaced it  resolving the leak. IPA reimbursed this cost to Mr S 
which I think was fair under the circumstances.
The initial report from B recommends work totalling £6,720, to replace the roof. It confirms 
that it had to remove everything done by A and feels this caused further damage. B doesnt 
specify what that damage was, or that its temporary repair was ineffective. Nonetheless, it 
recommends replacing the roof is the only way of achieving a permanent repair. B doesnt 
offer any opinion as to the cause of the leak or explain the damage that resulted from what A 
did. And B said it couldnt comment on what action it may have taken if it were the first 
contractor on site. 
The policy provides Mr S with cover for immediate repairs to stabilise and remove the 
emergency. This means a temporary repair would be made to stop the emergency 
continuing but not that its permanent. I appreciate IPA didnt do that  but it has since made 
payment to Mr S to reimburse him for Bs repair, which abated the emergency. 
Mr S says hes lost the opportunity to achieve a permanent repair due to the repairs by A. 
But theres no information that demonstrates how Mr S proposed to achieve a permanent 
repair even if A had used the correct mastic. There is evidence that the roof was suffering 
wear and tear, and water was leaking through. Mastic was the temporary fix and Mr S would 
have needed to carry out further steps for a permanent solution notwithstanding As 
intervention. 
I know Mr S feels strongly that the roof wouldnt have needed replacing had it not have been 
for the initial failed repairs by IPA. But Im not persuaded by the evidence hes provided.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman