DRN-3605356
The complaint
Mr R complains about West Bay Insurance Plcs (West Bay) decision to decline his car 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr Rs car broke down, so he had to call roadside recovery to help get his car started again. 
Mr R says his car required further investigation due to there being a number of faults. Mr R 
says he called West Bay several times and was left waiting for long periods without any 
indication on where he was in the call queue. Mr R says hed also taken his car to a local 
garage and they said his car was showing signs of water ingress which led to an electrical 
fire so his car required investigation of the wiring loom to identify the extent of damage. Mr R 
says when he spoke with West Bay they said his car was a write-off and would arrange for a 
salvage agent to collect it. Mr R says West Bay didnt inspect his car and didnt have an 
understanding of the extent of damage yet they declared his car a write-off. Mr R says West 
Bays loss adjuster then contacted him and they recommended West Bay pay out on the 
claim  but Mr R says he wanted his car repaired. Mr R said he had to initiate all contact with 
West Bay and was without a car and no indication of how this would be resolved. Mr R says 
he was left waiting for updates and continued to chase for a resolution. West Bay then 
declined the claim due to an exclusion in the policy. Mr R complained about West Bays 
decision and having reached this without inspecting his car or even discussing the damage 
with the local garage. Mr R also complained about the service received from West Bay. 
West Bay responded and explained, on being notified of the claim, they instructed their loss 
adjuster to validate the claim. West Bay said, while this was happening, they shouldve 
arranged to collect and inspect Mr Rs car  but this didnt happen until four weeks later, by 
which time the claim had been validated. West Bay said, even though the claim had been 
validated, they werent in a position to provide a decision on the claim. West Bay explained 
they then requested photos and an estimate of the damage caused, but then decided the 
damage was an electrical fault and not covered by the policy. West Bay said, while they 
followed the correct process in reaching a decision, there were delays in the processing and 
actioning of the claim. West Bay said they understand Mr R has experienced delays when 
contacting them and accepted it wouldve been frustrating for Mr R to be on hold for the time 
he was and apologised for this. West Bay upheld Mr Rs complaint and explained theyd sent 
him compensation of £150. During our investigation, West Bay responded to a further 
complaint about their customer service and paid an additional £100 compensation.  
 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R. He thought West Bay hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining the claim. Mr R disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr R will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Rs car insurance policy. This sets out the terms and conditions and 
under the heading What is not covered, it says, mechanical or electrical breakdown 
including failure of any equipment, integrated circuit, computer chip, computer software or 
computer related equipment and failure or breakages of any part due to application of brakes 
or road shocks. West Bay have declined the claim on the basis the damage is down to an 
electrical fault. So, Ive looked to see whether their decision is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I can see Mr R sent West Bay photos showing the damage to his car. These photos show 
damage to the wiring loom. West Bay then ask Mr R if there was any other damage and     
Mr R replies No, there was no other damage to the car other than that to the wiring. West 
Bay say they therefore believe the issue is linked to an electrical fault. I can see Mr R says 
the cause of the damage was water ingress so that should be covered by the policy. Mr R 
says he travelled to a marina with a boat attached to the back of his car. He says he 
reversed his car down the slip way and then removed the boat from the tow-bar. Mr R says, 
even though his car wasnt submerged in water, he believes the only way water couldve 
entered his car wouldve been this one-time event when he reversed the boat down the slip 
way. Mr R says this wouldnt have been visible as it was dark at this time. Mr R says there is 
no other event that he can recall that wouldve allowed water to enter his car. 
Given the conflicting views, Ive looked at the evidence and considered on the balance of 
probabilities what, I believe more likely than not, has happened. Ive seen the report from the 
roadside recovery patrol and this supports Mr Rs point that he had visited a marina as that 
is noted as the breakdown location. The report says the car wont start and the patrol noticed 
the battery was hot, so they fitted a temporary battery and the engine started. The report 
says the car had various electrical issues and they carried out temporary repairs to get 
Mr R home or a place of repair to have electrical issues repaired Ive also seen the first 
notification of loss report from West Bay and this sets out Mr Rs description of the incident. 
This says the roadside recovery patrol investigated the issue as there was no power getting 
to the car. They got the car started but as Mr R approached his home he could smell 
smoke/burning and then saw smoke appearing from the dash and vents. Mr R then called 
roadside recovery again who took the car to a local garage and they located the 
smoke/burning was as a result of fire within the electricsunder the Centre console. 
I can see West Bay then instructed a loss adjuster and their report says they called Mr R to 
get his account of the incident. The report says Mr R confirmed when roadside recovery got 
his car started, there were 60 faults showing with the car on the diagnostic check. Mr R says 
he was still getting warning lights while driving and then noticed smoke so he called roadside 
recovery again. In addition to this, I can see the local garage where Mr Rs car was originally 
delivered and who investigated the issue, email Mr R to say theyve carried out a diagnostic 
test and found six pages of fault codes indicating a substantial electrical fault. Taking into 
account all of this evidence, theres no mention of water ingress. There is however reference 
to electrical faults. So, taking this all into consideration, I dont think its unreasonable for 
West Bay to have taken the view that the damage has been caused by an electrical fault.  
On the point about water ingress, West Bay say theres no evidence to suggest Mr Rs car 
was flooded and, given Mr R says his car wasnt submerged, they dont see how this 
couldve been a one-time event. West Bay say if water ingress has been a cause then its 
likely down to an event which has occurred over a period of time, which isnt covered by the 
policy. Mr R says his car was transferred from the local garage to the car manufacturer who 
carried out some tests in relation to the water ingress. He says this established there was no 
water getting into Mr Rs car. Mr R has provided a quote from his car manufacturer to repair 
his car and this shows they propose to investigate the water ingress and carry out an extended water test to locate the source of the leak. They also suggest replacing the carpets 
as the existing ones are water damaged. 
So, I dont doubt there has been water ingress  the issue is whether this has been a one-
time event and the cause of the electrical fault. Ive seen an email from the local garage to 
Mr R in January 2022 and this notes that Mr Rs car has been stood at their workshop for a 
few months. The email says they tried to move Mr Rs car but couldnt engage the gear and 
on further inspection they found excessive water ingress into the passenger footwell 
They said this had caused corrosion to the wiring harness that is located under the carpet on 
the passenger side. I cant see this water ingress has been linked to the original electrical 
fault. And, given that the local garage carried out extensive checks of Mr Rs car when it 
arrived, I think, had there been water ingress at that point, its reasonable to expect they 
wouldve identified this at that point. While I cant comment on how that water entered Mr Rs 
car, I havent seen any compelling evidence this could only have happened during Mr Rs 
one-time visit to the marina.        
I wish to reassure Mr R that Ive carefully considered his points but, in deciding what I think 
is more likely to be the case than not, Im persuaded by the evidence which supports the 
issue being an electrical fault which hasnt been caused by a one-time water ingress event. 
Theres no dispute that West Bay got things wrong when they delayed in dealing with Mr Rs 
claim. They accept it took too long to process the claim, they didnt respond to Mr Rs 
correspondence and he was left frustrated at the length of time he was waiting on hold 
during calls. I can see theyve paid a total of £250 in compensation, and I think thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand Mr R feels the delays caused by West Bay have led to further damage to his 
car while he was waiting for their decision on his claim. I note West Bay say Mr R refused to 
allow their salvage agent to collect the car from the local garage to inspect it. I understand 
Mr R says he instructed the local garage not to release the car as he remained concerned 
West Bay wanted to salvage his car but they werent prepared to discuss the possibility of 
repairing his car  which is what Mr R wanted. West Bay say theyre entitled to take the car 
for salvage/inspection and, while they note Mr R wanted to retain his car as he felt it was 
repairable, its for West Bay to determine this. 
I can see West Bay did instruct an agent to collect the car so they could inspect it and their 
engineers could then decide on the next steps. Given the outcome Mr R wanted, I do 
acknowledge why he was reluctant to allow the salvage agent to collect his car, but West 
Bay are entitled to arrange an inspection to help determine how the claim should proceed. It 
appears West Bay then decided they didnt need to inspect the car as they had sufficient 
information to decline the claim. So, taking this into account, I cant say there has been any 
delay by West Bay in arranging to inspect Mr Rs car. In addition to this, the email from the 
local garage in January 2022 does refer to further damage but this appears to have arisen 
out of the water ingress. And, given that I dont believe the original electrical fault was 
caused by water ingress, I cant say West Bay should be responsible for any further damage 
which mightve arisen while Mr Rs car was held at the local garage.    
I understand Mr R will be disappointed, and I acknowledge his concerns about the issues he 
experienced. I wish to reassure Mr R Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but 
if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it 
or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. My 
role here is to decide whether West Bay have acted fairly and reasonably in declining the 
claim  and from the information Ive seen, I think they have. My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman