DRN-1602606
The complaint
Miss G complains that her Lloyds Bank PLC current account balance went over the agreed 
overdraft limit after she returned from a trip abroad. Miss G says there should have been 
enough money in her account to cover the transactions. 
What happened
While Miss G was abroad she complete a number of transactions and says that she took 
steps to ensure there was enough money in her account to cover them. After Miss G's return 
to the UK she found her account balance was above the overdraft limit and she contacted 
Lloyds. 
Lloyds said that Miss G's available balance had been impacted by delays in the payments 
she made being processed by the merchants. Lloyds didn't find anything to show it had 
made a mistake and said the account balance was correct. 
Miss G complained about her account balance and the service provided by the call handler 
she originally spoke with. Lloyds responded to Miss G's complaint on 3 July 2019  and said 
the transactions had been correctly applied to her account. Lloyds issued another response 
on 10 June 2019 and said it didn't agree that the service provided to Miss G was poor. 
Miss G referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Lloyds had dealt with Miss G's complaint fairly so didn't ask it to take 
any additional action. Miss G asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G has raised concerns over how the transactions she made while abroad affected her 
account balance and the service provided by Lloyds when she called to discuss them. I'll talk 
about each in turn. 
I'm sorry to disappoint Miss G but I haven't seen anything to indicate Lloyds made mistakes 
when it applied the transactions she completed while abroad to the account. Lloyds correctly 
explained that there can be a delay in merchants processing transactions, especially when 
they are completed abroad. Lloyds said that the delay in claiming payments meant that Miss 
G's available balance may have looked higher than it was. In addition, when Miss G spoke 
with Lloyds she confirmed she didn't factor in the non sterling transaction fees it applies. 
 
I've reviewed Miss G's account statements in full but I haven't seen anything that shows 
Lloyds made an error. I've listened to all the available calls but Miss G doesn't specify any  
payment as being fraudulent and I note Lloyds confirmed they had all been completed with 
her bank card using the chip and pin facility. I understand Miss G's concerns, but I'm satisfied the transactions have been correctly applied and that the account balance did 
exceed the overdraft limit. 
As Miss G's transactions and account balance are correct, Lloyds correctly charged her 
when the balance exceeded the overdraft limit. I can see Lloyds offered the services of its 
Customer Support Unit when Miss G called about the unarranged overdraft. I'm satisfied 
Lloyds was trying to provide some support to Miss G after she complained. 
Miss G complains about the service she received from the first call handler she spoke with. 
It's unfortunate that Lloyds has only been able to provide a call recording of the second part 
of Miss G's call with Lloyds, when she was transferred to a manager. Miss G has explained 
that the recording should cover both parts of her call and I understand her concern that 
Lloyds hasn't sent us everything. But I'm satisfied Lloyds can't produce the call recording 
due to technical reasons, as it claims, which means it isn't now available for review. 
We have been sent the second part of that call and I've listened to it in full. During the call, 
Miss G discussed her account balance and the transactions she had made while abroad. 
She also complained about the service she received. I can hear that Miss G was upset and I 
don't doubt that her conversation with the original call handler became heated. But I think the 
nature of Miss G's call and the information Lloyds provided was reasonably distressing. I 
haven't been persuaded that the service Lloyds provided was unreasonable or that it failed 
to treat Miss G fairly. 
I'm very sorry to disappoint Miss G as I can see how strongly she feels in this matter. But I 
haven't been persuaded to uphold her complaint. I'm satisfied the transactions applied to her 
account were genuine and that Lloyds has charged her correctly. I haven't found that the 
service provided was poor and I think Lloyds has dealt with Miss G's complaint fairly. As a 
result, I'm not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 June 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman