DRN-3775631
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as B has complained that Arch Insurance (UK) Limited (Arch) 
unfairly declined to pay its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mrs W, a director of B, has brought the complaint on Bs behalf. 
What happened
B runs a manufacturing company for which it held business interruption insurance with Arch. 
B said that in March 2020 the UK Government announced that non-essential businesses 
should close and people should stay at home. B said that it is not an essential business, 
does not supply essential businesses and could not comply with the social distancing 
requirements. B said it therefore decided to close until the UK Government advice to reopen 
in May 2020. 
Arch said that the Supreme Court had considered the wording of Bs policy in Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Business Interruption Insurance test case. It said the policy would 
provide cover if there was a complete prevention of access to its premises, or a discrete part 
of its premises, or a complete prevention of access for the purpose of carrying out a discrete 
part of its business activities. Arch said that B hadnt been required to close by the UK 
Government. It said that as B ran a trade only business, while its business would have been 
impacted by the pandemic, it had the option to remain open. Therefore, Arch declined Bs 
claim. 
B complained to Arch about its decision. B said as it was a manufacturing company it was 
unable to work from home. It said that, even if it had traded, its suppliers and customers 
were closed and it would have been unable to run a business in those circumstances. 
Arch maintained its decision to decline Bs claim, so B brought its complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator looked into Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she thought 
Arch had acted reasonably in declining Bs claim. 
B asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It said that the UK Government had instructed 
everyone to stay at home and thats what they did until they were told they could return to 
work. It said if that wasnt the case then why did the Government pay furlough to the staff of 
businesses which had to close. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Bs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Arch has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Bs claim.
The clause in dispute is headed Government or Local Authority Action. It says that Arch will 
indemnity B for reduction in turnover or increase in cost of working resulting from: 
Prevention of access to The Premises due to the actions or advice of a 
government or local authority due to an emergency which is likely to endanger life 
or property.
We will not indemnify You in respect of:
(a) any incident lasting less than 12 hours
(b) any period other than the actual period when the access to The Premises was 
prevented
(c) a Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease as defined in the current 
relevant legislation occurring at The Premises
Its not in disputed that Covid-19 was an emergency likely to endanger life. Therefore, the 
question for me to consider is whether there was a prevention of access to Bs premises due 
to the actions or advice of a government or local authority as a result of Covid-19.
As Arch set out, this clause was considered by the Supreme Court in the FCA test case. At 
paragraph 151 the court said:
prevention means stopping something from happening or making an intended 
act impossible and is different from mere hindrance. In both the situations 
contemplated, however, access to a discrete part of the premises or access to 
the premises for a discrete purpose will have been completely stopped from 
happening.
Given the courts comments, I think it was reasonable for Arch to say that B needed to 
demonstrate that there was a complete prevention of access to its premises, or a discrete 
part of its premises or a complete prevention of access for the purpose of carrying out a 
discrete part of its business activities.
The Health Protection (Coronavirus Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 set out 
which businesses were required to close. Bs type of business was not mentioned in 
the Regulations as one that is required to close. 
B describes itself as a manufacturing business, so I dont think it was one of those 
businesses referred to in the Regulations and was therefore not required to close by the 
Regulations. As it wasnt required to close, I dont believe that there was a prevention of 
access to Bs premises, a discrete part of its premises or a discrete part of its business 
activities under the Regulations as access to the premises wasnt stopped or made 
impossible.
I have considered the points B has made about the Prime Ministers announcement on 
23 March 2020. I have looked at the transcript of Prime Ministers announcement on  
23 March 2020 and he said that non-essential shops should close. However, B is a 
manufacturing company which supplies to trade, so I think its reasonable for Arch to 
conclude that this comment didnt mean that Bs business should close. 
I have considered the Government request for people to stay home and to work from 
home where possible. However, Regulation 6 set out that a reasonable excuse for someone to leave where they are living is that they cannot reasonably work from where 
they are living. 
At paragraph 154 the court went on to say:
Whilst we accept that it is possible for regulation 6 to result in a prevention of 
access, we consider that such cases are likely to be rareAs the court below 
stressed, a prevention needs to be established; hindrance does not suffice.
As B said, its staff werent able to reasonably work from home, so I think they would 
have been able to attend Bs premises for work. I have considered that B said its staff 
were unable to social distance but while this may well have hindered the access to its 
premises, I think its reasonable for Arch to say that this didnt constitute a prevention of 
access to its premises as there was no requirement for the business to close and 
people could go to work when they couldnt reasonably work from home. 
I recognise Bs point that its customers and suppliers werent trading so it would have been 
difficult to run its business. However, while I can understand why that would have impacted 
Bs business, I dont think that either of these things means that there was a prevention of 
access to Bs premises due to the actions or advice of a government or local authority.
B queried why the Government had paid furlough to businesses which had been required to 
close but I dont believe the Governments decision to pay furlough where people were 
unable to work means that there was a requirement for Arch to pay Bs claim. I say this 
because I dont think there was a prevention of access to Bs premises due to the actions or 
advice of a government or local authority. 
I appreciate that B will be disappointed with my decision but as I think Arch acted reasonably 
in stating that there wasnt a prevention of access to Bs premises, I dont think I can fairly 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before14 March 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman