DRN-3247839
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out by
post alongside a credit card in 1997. Mr B says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-
sold him the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
RBS had to make Mr B aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before
adding the policy to his card. RBS has sent us a copy of the paperwork available from
the time. Mr Bs credit card application form had a separate section for PPI where the option 
to take the policy was selected. The application form was also signed by Mr B in agreement 
with the selections that had been made. So, I think RBS made Mr B aware the PPI was 
optional, and he chose to have it.
Mr B has told us that he thinks the PPI was recommended to him as the application form 
states it strongly recommends Mr B takes the cover. But the card and PPI were taken out 
by post with no interaction with an RBS representative. I think this statement is a standard 
statement on the application form, and I havent seen enough to say a tailored 
recommendation was made to Mr B to take the policy. 
So, I dont think RBS recommended the PPI to Mr B. Which means it didnt have to check if it 
was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide 
if it was right for him.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means he had of making his 
repayments, which included sick pay, redundancy pay, and help from parents. The PPI 
would have paid out in addition to Mr Bs sick pay, and for longer. It would also have covered 
circumstances other than redundancy. And although Mr Bs family would have wanted to 
help him if he was unable to make his payments, individuals circumstances can change. So, 
I dont think this offer of help could be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful
for him if something went wrong and I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means RBS doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman