DRN-3442577
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds decision to decline their 
buildings insurance claim.
All references to Tesco also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr and Mrs P said a fallen branch from a nearby tree damaged the Septic Tank.
However, Tesco say the damage to the Septic Tank is pre-existing and it had 
reached the end of its working life. Its referenced comments made by a contractor in 
2013, upon inspection of the Septic Tank which it feels supports this.
Mr and Mrs P said it disputed these comments at the time, and so is unable to 
provide proof of repairs from the time - as the issues described were not accurate
I understand Tescos concern here, the comments reference the condition of the tank 
was poor and that the innards of the tank had collapsed.
But these comments are around nine years old, and I must consider the tank has 
continued to function. When considering the condition described in 2013, Id have 
reasonably expected the tank to have presented the issues it has sooner.
Information has been provided to show the tank was emptied yearly  and no further 
comments or concerns have been made referencing the tank was in poor condition 
or functioning incorrectly. And the volume emptied each year remained consistently 
similar.
One of the reports from Tesco said one of its surveyors believed the damage could 
be consistent with how Mr and Mrs P have described.
And having reviewed the available photos and reports available, I can see there is a 
specific point of damage, and photos show the tree nearby.
So, having weighed up what both sides have told me, Im more persuaded by what 
Mr and Mrs P have said, the tank was functioning correctly up until the incident 
around June 2020 and the damage has happened in the way theyve said.
Tesco has acknowledged it has caused some avoidable delays in its handling of the 
claim. I can see there have been times where Tesco had had the information it 
needed to progress the claim, but failed to do, which resulted in further contact from 
Mr and Mrs P to progress matters. Considering this, I think Tesco should pay Mr and 
Mrs P £200 compensation as I feel this fairly represents the inconvenience they have 
been caused.
So for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs P had the tank replaced around February 2021. So, in the 
circumstances, Tesco should reimburse these costs on receipt of suitable proof  
such as an invoice. 
Tesco should add 8% simple interest to this from the date Mr and Mrs P made the 
payment to the date Tesco makes the payment to them.
Tesco should pay Mr and Mrs P £200 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
To put things right, I direct Tesco Underwriting Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman