DRN-2785024
The complaint
Mr S complaint is about a declined claim and poor customer service, under his home 
emergency policy from AWP P&C SA (AWP). 
What happened
Mr S contacted AWP as his toilet had a faulty flushing mechanism. Mr S said that it initially 
told him that the claim would be approved and that a plumber would contact him. After a few 
days, he hadnt heard from AWP and so chased them. He was then told that the claim had 
been declined as the fault with the toilet wasnt covered under his policy. 
Mr S complained to AWP as he felt that it had accepted the claim and then withdrew it, failed 
to provide a plumber to fix the toilet, failed to communicate that the claim had been declined 
and failed to investigate his complaint. 
In its final response, AWP confirmed that the claim had been declined as the policy didnt 
cover the fault with his toilet and it wasnt an emergency. It accepted that it had failed to tell 
Mr S that his claim had been declined and for this it offered £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered his complaint 
and didnt uphold it. She said the policy wording was clear as to what was an emergency 
and the fault with his toilet wasnt deemed to be an emergency. So, it wasnt covered by the 
policy. She also said that the £75 offered to redress the poor communication that Mr S 
experienced, was fair. So, there was nothing further she could reasonably ask AWP to do. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator. He reiterated that his complaint was about AWP 
accepting the claim and then refusing it without telling him. He said that £75 wasnt a 
reasonable amount of compensation, especially given the time he spent and phone calls he 
made to try and resolve his complaint. He believed a fairer sum of compensation should be 
£400. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
The main issues here are:
Whether AWP was fair to decline the claim.
Poor customer service, including the delay in responding and whether the £75 compensation 
was reasonable.
Mr S had a home emergency policy that amongst other things covered him for plumbing 
issues. I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy and what AWP defines as a 
home emergency, to assess whether AWP were fair in declining Mr S claim.
The policy wording defines a home emergency as: 
a sudden and unforeseen domestic situation, which if not dealt with quickly, will: 
Make your home unsafe.
Damage or cause further damage to your home or its contents.
Result in your home losing its main source of heating, lighting or water
I have considered the call notes of when Mr S reported his faulty toilet. The call handler 
asked Mr S a series of questions, which I think were to determine whether the claim was an 
emergency. For example, Mr S confirmed that the toilet couldnt flush properly and that it 
wasnt leaking nor was it overflowing. 
In the circumstances, I cant agree that the faulty flush mechanism would amount to a home 
emergency given the definition in the policy. As, it didnt make Mr S home unsafe, nor did it 
cause damage or further damage to his home or its contents. Nor did it result in Mr S home 
losing its main source of heating, lighting or water. So, I am satisfied that AWP relied upon 
the policy terms and conditions, and it reasonably declined Mr S claim. 
In addition, the policy states that the following is covered: burst pipes, overflowing water 
tanks, blocked waste outlets (including toilets) and blocked drains. None of these hazards 
formed the basis of Mr S claim. Consequently, I dont think AWP was being unfair when it 
declined Mr S claim.
I have next considered Mr S complaint about the poor customer service (including the 
delay), initially due to AWP failing to notify Mr S that his claim had been declined. From the 
notes, I can see that Mr S first call to report the fault with this toilet, was in the morning. The 
call handler referred the claim to the home emergency contractor, who later that afternoon 
declined the claim, on the basis that a broken flush mechanism wasnt covered under the 
policy, nor was it deemed a home emergency. AWP didnt tell Mr S that his claim had been 
declined on that day. 
Mr S describes that he had to contact AWP about a week later as he hadnt received a visit 
from an engineer, nor had he heard anymore from AWP. AWP accepted that it shouldve told 
Mr S sooner that his claim had been declined. And for the poor service, it apologised and 
offered £75 for the inconvenience this caused. From what Ive seen, I think the £75 that 
AWP offered was fair and reasonable and recognised the inconvenience this caused to Mr 
S.
Mr S said that he spent a few hours and made several calls in chasing AWP for its reason 
why his claim had been declined. AWP explained that the reason for the delay was in part 
due to Covid-19 restrictions, staff shortages and an increase in case load. 
Mr S raised his complaint with AWP in September 2020. AWPs final response was in 
February 2021. The industry regulator has set rules that businesses have up to eight weeks 
to respond to complaints. I note that AWP acknowledged Mr S emails and informed him that 
it would respond as soon as practicable. 
Whilst I can appreciate how frustrating this wouldve been for Mr S not to have received an 
outcome sooner, Ive taken into account that this was an unprecedented time and that 
government guidelines wouldve likely impacted on AWPs ability to respond as quickly as it wouldve liked. But in these circumstances, I cant say that AWP ignored Mr S complaint or 
failed to investigate it.
Taking all of this into consideration, I think that AWP relied upon the terms and conditions of 
the policy when it declined Mr S claim, which was fair. Im satisfied that AWP did provide Mr 
S with poor service by not telling him that his claim had been declined sooner. But I think its 
offer of £75 was fair. So, I cant reasonably ask AWP to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, by AWP P&C SA has offered £75 for the trouble and 
upset it caused, and this is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman