DRN-4403506
The complaint
Mr A complains that ReAssure Limited is responsible for the mis-sale of a personal pension 
plan to him in 1998.
What happened
The sale of the pension plan was made by another firm. But the responsibility for Mr As 
pension plan, and the sale, has passed to ReAssure. So it is ReAssure that needs to deal 
with Mr As complaint. In this decision, for ease, I will simply refer to the selling firm as 
ReAssure throughout.
Mr A was previously a member of an occupational pension scheme that was administered by 
ReAssure. Mr A left his employer in 1997 and his new employer did not offer a pension 
scheme. So Mr A approached ReAssure to seek its assistance in making future savings for 
his retirement.
Mr A had a number of meetings with an advisor from ReAssure. Following those meetings 
Mr A started to make contributions to a new personal pension plan. His contributions were 
shared between a managed fund and a with-profits fund.
Mr A has raised a number of concerns with ReAssure about the way in which the new 
pension plan was sold, whether it was appropriate for his circumstances, and its operation 
over past 25 years. In this decision I am only dealing with what happened when the pension 
plan was sold. I will consider the basis of that sale, and whether the pension plan was 
appropriate for Mr As needs at that time. But I wont be considering what has happened 
since, including the investment performance of Mr As pension savings. Issues arising from 
matters after the pension plan had been opened will be dealt with in a separate complaint.
Mr As complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that, on 
balance, it was likely that ReAssure had provided a recommendation to Mr A about starting 
the new personal pension and making regular contributions. But he didnt think that advice 
had been inappropriate. Whilst he accepted that Mr A had found the investment performance 
to be disappointing, he didnt think that was something that could have been reasonably 
foreseen at the time the advice was given. And he didnt think that the inflexibility of the part 
of Mr As pension savings invested into the with-profits arrangement would have caused 
Mr A to make a different decision had it been better explained at the outset. So he didnt 
think Mr As complaint should be upheld.
Mr A didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr A and by ReAssure. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Mr A met with ReAssure about his pension around 25 years ago. The regulatory regime was 
very different at that time, and my consideration of what happened must be based on the 
reasonable expectations of that time. As an example Mr A has raised as part of his 
complaint whether ReAssure has complied with the regulators expectations of with-profits 
funds as set out in chapter 20 of the code of business sourcebook (COBS). But those 
regulations were only introduced in 2007 and didnt apply retrospectively. So they shouldnt 
form any part of my analysis of what happened, or should reasonably have happened, when 
Mr A took the pension plan in 1998.
As might be expected for a sale that took place so long ago, there is very little information 
about the discussions that were held with Mr A about his needs and circumstances. And 
I am also very mindful that over such an extended period of time even the most careful of 
memories can, and do, fade. It seems to me that, entirely understandably, some parts of 
Mr As complaint have been influenced by the benefit of hindsight, comparing investment 
returns from the plan he holds with ReAssure to those from other pension plans he holds. So 
whilst I will of course take Mr As recollections into consideration, I must also be guided by 
what I think was most likely to have formed the basis of his discussions with ReAssure at the 
time.
ReAssure met with Mr A on a number of occasions in the lead up to him starting the pension 
plan. As Mr A appears to have had little experience in pension matters at that time I think it 
unlikely that those meetings would have been solely for the purposes of executing his 
instructions. I think it more likely that ReAssure would have gathered information about 
Mr As circumstances and then provided him with advice, or a recommendation, about how 
he might meet his need to make future pension savings. So I think that ReAssure was 
responsible for ensuring that its recommendation was appropriate for Mr As circumstances.
The advisor that met with Mr A was what was known as a tied advisor. That meant they 
could only recommend products offered by ReAssure. They couldnt actively recommend 
any other products from any other product providers.
However, a tied adviser was required to follow rules set by the regulator who had adopted 
rules previously set in 1988 by the regulator at that time - LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and 
Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation). The LAUTRO Code said advisers should maintain high 
standards of integrity and fair dealing, exercise due skill, care and diligence in providing any 
services, and generally take proper account of the interests of investors. It added that 
businesses should give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the 
representative in question.
It seems clear to me that Mr A could reasonably have been considered to have a need to 
make pension savings. He had left his employer and so was no longer eligible to be a member of the occupational pension scheme it provided. And his new employer didnt offer a 
similar arrangement. So it was prudent that he approached ReAssure for advice. And 
I havent seen anything to make me think that the recommendation ReAssure gave to Mr A, 
to open a new pension plan, was inappropriate.
It appears that the advice Mr A was given was to invest half of his pension contributions into 
a managed fund, and the other half into a with-profits fund. Mr A is particularly concerned 
that the with-profits fund was not appropriate for his stated needs and circumstances at that 
time. He says that he told ReAssure that he wanted to be able to change his pension 
investments if his circumstances changed in the future. And he says he wanted to be flexible 
with his future retirement date.
As I explained earlier, I need to view the advice that was given to Mr A in light of good 
industry practice and the relevant regulations of the time. The investment landscape was 
very different at that time. As an example, the regulator requires firms to provide illustrations 
to consumers of possible investments returns. There were no prescribed rates in 
January 1998. Around that time firms were free to choose representative illustrations. But 
shortly after the advice was given to Mr A, any illustrations were required to use returns 
ranging from a lower estimate of 8.5% per annum to a higher rate of 13% per annum. 
Currently those rates would be quoted as being 2% and 8% per annum.
With profits funds were seen as being a good fit to the liabilities and investment profile 
required for pension investments. They had historically produced consistent and strong 
returns, with their built-in smoothing offering a degree of stability to the value of pension 
savings. And Mr As with profits investments were unitised so the fund behaved in a similar 
way to other unitised investment funds, except that generally the price was guaranteed not 
to fall below what had been originally paid for the investment if it was held until retirement.
More recently with-profits funds have seen bonus rates fall markedly from the performance 
they enjoyed in the 1980s and 1990s. Many funds were invested in shares, so when the 
stock markets fell in the early part of the 2000s the guarantees that had been built up in 
earlier years needed to be supported by changes to make use of investments in gilts and 
bonds that reduced the potential for future growth. And at times market value reductions 
have been applied to pension investments being taken, or transferred, early to ensure that 
consumers only receive a fair share of the value of the fund when they decide to cash in 
their investment.
But many of the problems Ive described above could not have been reasonably foreseen 
when ReAssure gave its advice to Mr A. At that time it would have been possible for Mr A to 
alter the way in which his pension savings were invested, and it would have been unlikely 
that he wouldnt have received the full value of any with-profits investments he held. And for 
similar reasons, given the expectation that investments would continue to grow, I dont think 
that the possibility of a change in Mr As retirement date would have caused concerns at that 
time.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr A. With the benefit of hindsight he 
has shown that other investment approaches might have resulted in his pension savings 
having a higher value as he approaches retirement. But I havent seen anything that would 
make me think that the advice ReAssure gave to Mr A in 1998 was not appropriate. The way 
in which his pension contributions were invested would have been considered suitable for a 
relatively cautious investor, and was likely to have been reasonably thought to provide an 
appropriate level of return over Mr As working life. And I dont think that any concerns would 
have reasonably been held over a lack of flexibility in those investments should Mr As 
circumstances have unexpectedly changed.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
ReAssure Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman