DRN-3058097
Complaint
Mrs F has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly continued applying charges 
on her overdraft which caused her difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Fs complaint and thought Lloyds should have realised 
Mrs F wasnt managing her overdraft by the time it renewed it in June 2017. She said that it 
needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mrs Fs overdraft from this 
point as result. Lloyds disagreed. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
renewed Mrs Fs overdraft in June 2017. 
By this point, Lloyds would have seen that Mrs F had been hardcore borrowing for a 
number of months. In other words, Mrs Fs account remained persistently overdrawn (by 
large amounts) for lengthy periods. Lloyds says this isnt really relevant here as it says Mrs F 
was using her overdraft for luxury spending. But this wasnt an indication of Mrs F being in a 
strong financial position and its clear that Mrs F was spending beyond her means. Id also 
point out that Lloyds was perpetuating her ability to do this by continuing to provide what it 
itself describes as a short-term facility on an extended, prolonged and long-term basis.   
Furthermore, while Ive noted Lloyds argument about Mrs Fs ability to on occasion exit her 
overdraft, including after the period it has been said it ought to have taken action, it was 
clear this wasnt happening. And I dont agree that a consumer who is significantly 
overdrawn for extended periods is managing their account well, or in a financially strong 
position. 
Overall, I think that by June 2017 Lloyds shouldnt have renewed Mrs Fs overdraft on the 
same terms. Instead it ought to have taken corrective action and treated her with 
forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft. 
All of this means that Lloyds should have realised that Mrs F was struggling to manage her 
overdraft and offered her assistance. As Lloyds didnt react to Mrs Fs account usage and 
instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mrs F ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when she was already 
struggling to manage her overdraft and it had clearly become unsustainable. So Im satisfied 
that Mrs F lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong and that it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Mrs F
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Fs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Fs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from June 2017 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mrs F to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If Lloyds considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Fs 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the account from June 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs F along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mrs Fs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give  
Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Fs complaint. Lloyds Bank Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman