DRN-4488656
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has turned down a 
medical expenses claim Mr S made on a travel insurance policy.
As Mr S brought the complaint to us, for ease, Ive referred mainly to him.
What happened
Mr S took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker. Mr S travelled on a cruise. 
Unfortunately, he required medical treatment for a foot infection during the cruise. So he 
made a medical expenses claim on his travel insurance policy.
After five months, Admiral turned down Mr S claim. It said that because Mr S hadnt taken 
out optional cruise cover, his situation wasnt covered by the policy terms. However, it 
acknowledged thered been an unreasonable delay in its handling of Mr S claim and so it 
paid him £100 compensation.
Mr S was unhappy with Admirals decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He
accepted that he hadnt taken out cruise cover. But he said hed thought cruise cover only
applied to certain listed events  such as cabin confinement. He didnt think the policy terms
made it sufficiently clear that no claims at all for cruise trips would be covered unless cruise
cover had been purchased.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. Briefly, he thought that
Admiral had provided Mr S with clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy.
And he felt the contract terms made the cover sufficiently clear. So he didnt think it had
been unfair for Admiral to turn down Mr S claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 November 2023, which explained the reasons why I 
didnt think Admiral had treated Mr and Mrs S fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,
the policy terms and the circumstances of Mr S claim, to decide whether I think Admiral
handled the claim fairly.
First, Ive considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr S
contract with Admiral. Its clear that Mr S made a claim for medical expenses after he
suffered an infection. Section 1 of the policy provides cover for Emergency Medical
Expenses. This includes the following:
What is covered
We will pay up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule for each insured person
who is injured, becomes ill, is quarantined or dies while on a trip, including:
Medical costs abroad: Reasonable and necessary costs for emergency medical, surgical
and hospital treatment including an ambulance to take you to hospital.
This section of the policy does not include a specific exclusion for medical expenses incurred
on a cruise if cruise cover hasnt been purchased.
Ive next turned to the policy general exclusions, which set out a list of things Admiral has
specifically chosen to exclude from cover. This includes the following term:
We will not pay any claim which is in any way caused by or resulting from:
Cruises: Your trip or part of your trip being a cruise, unless you have included our additional
cruise cover and paid the appropriate additional premium. If you have this cover it will be
shown on your policy schedule.
Its common ground that Mr S didnt choose to take out cruise cover. However, it isnt at all
clear to me that this exclusion can fairly be applied to the circumstances of Mr S claim. The
term refers to claims caused by or resulting from cruises. But Mr S claim appears to have
been for the costs of treating an infection. Ive seen no persuasive evidence that this
infection was caused by or resulted from Mr S being on a cruise.
Ive looked closely at the cruise cover section of the policy and the remainder of the policy
documentation as a whole. And I dont think Admiral has made it sufficiently clear that it
wont cover any claims if a policyholder is on a cruise holiday unless cruise cover has been
purchased. Ill explore this further.
Cruise cover is set out on page 62 of the policy. In the important information box at the top of
the page, the policy says:
This section only applies if you opted to include Cruise Cover on your policy and have paid
the appropriate extra premium. You must include this additional cover if any part of your trip
will include a cruise.
The following, specific events are listed as covered under the cruise cover section of the
policy:
Missed port departure;
Cruise cabin confinement;
Unused excursions;
Cruise itinerary change;
Cruise interruption.
Mr S didnt claim for any of these listed, insured events. And he said he didnt want cover for
any of those particular events. In my view, the policy doesnt make it clear enough that a
policyholder wont have any cover at all on a cruise holiday unless theyve taken out cruise
cover. Instead, I think the policy suggests that cruise cover only applies to claims arising
from the events Admiral has specifically set out in this section.
The policy schedule Mr S was sent after he took out the policy refers to the optional cruise
cover. Again though, it only lists the specific, insured events Ive set out above. So I dont
think Mr S would have been prompted to realise that he needed to take out cruise cover to
be covered for any potential claim on the policy while on a cruise holiday.
Ive also considered the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which Mr S was
sent post-sale. The IPID sets out a summary of the key policy terms, exclusions and
information. Page 1 includes a table called: What extra cover can be added (optional)? Thisincludes the following:
Cruise cover: Up to £750 for specified cruise related incidents (such as travel costs to
rejoin the ship if hospitalised.) This additional cover must be included if going on a cruise
ship or the policy will not provide cover for it. (My emphasis added.)
The IPID also lists a table of what is not insured. An example of this is hazardous activities 
unless an additional premium has been paid. However, cruises and claims which arise on
cruises (unless the add-on cover has been purchased) havent been included in this section
of the IPID.
In my view, while I appreciate Admiral likely intended to specifically exclude claims arising
during cruise holidays unless cruise cover had been added, Im not persuaded the IPID does
enough to highlight this either. Thats because it refers explicitly to the cruise cover being for
specified cruise related incidents. If Mr S cross-referenced the IPID with the cruise cover
section of the policy and the policy schedule, I currently think it would have been reasonable
for him to conclude that cruise cover only applied to claims for the listed, specified events.
So, based on the totality of the evidence Ive seen so far, I dont think the policy (or the
documentation as a whole) is drafted in a clear, fair or not misleading way. I think the policy
terms are ambiguous as to what Admiral intends to cover and exclude. It was open to
Admiral, as the drafter of the policy, to clearly state that there was no cover at all for any
claims arising on a cruise holiday unless cruise cover had been purchased. But it didnt do
so. And I think this is a significant restriction on cover. I consider that if Admiral had made
the level of cover sufficiently clear, Mr S is likely to have taken out the optional add-on and
accordingly, his claim would have been considered. So I currently think hes lost out as a
result of Admirals failure to highlight what cover it did and didnt provide.
Where a contract term or terms are ambiguous or unclear, its a legal principle that they
should be interpreted in favour of the party who didnt draft the contract. In this case, thats
Mr S. As such then, I dont currently think it was fair for Admiral to turn down his claim and I
intend to direct it to reconsider the claim under the medical expenses section of the policy.
Admiral accepts it didnt handle the claim as well as it should have done. It acknowledged
there were around five months of delay before it made a claims decision. And it paid Mr S
£100 compensation. But Im not persuaded this is enough to reflect the impact of its claims
handling on Mr S  especially given that I dont find it was fair for Admiral to have turned 
down the claim. In my view, a total award of £200 (less the £100 Admirals already paid) is a
fair, reasonable and proportionate award to reflect the unnecessary trouble, upset and
inconvenience Admirals handling of the claim has caused him.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Mr S accepted my provisional decision.
Admiral disagreed with my provisional findings and Ive summarised its response. It said that 
when Mr and Mrs S accepted the policy, they were sent a copy of the IPID. The IPID 
included an obligation to tell Admiral if a policyholder was going on a cruise trip. But Mr and 
Mrs S had failed to do this. Admiral said Mr and Mrs S had been offered the choice to add 
cruise cover to their policy at various points during the sales process and had chosen not to 
do so. It stated that Mr and Mrs S had been required to tick a box to say theyd read the IPID 
before they could complete the sale. It felt that if Mr and Mrs S had read the IPID before 
accepting the policy and had told it that they were going on a cruise, then the relevant cover 
could have been added.And Admiral didnt agree that the wording of the general exclusion was confusing. It felt that 
if a customer was on a cruise, then the words as a result of or caused by are clearly 
intended to include anything that happens on a cruise. It didnt consider it was logical to 
interpret the general exclusion as only applying to events physically caused by a cruise. It 
added that the reason it required a policyholder to take out cruise cover was because the 
risk a cruise holiday poses is higher in terms of the potential cost of a claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont think Admiral has treated Mr and Mrs S fairly and Ill explain why.
Admiral has placed some weight on the information set out on the IPID. I acknowledge that 
page two of the IPID sets out a policyholders obligations, including the following:
You must tell us if you plan on taking a cruise trip or winter sports trip if you havent already 
included cover for it.
However, as I explained above, I think the lack of cover for anything that happens on a 
cruise unless specific cover has been added is a significant term. Therefore, I think this 
particular term should have been clearly highlighted to Mr and Mrs S in both the policy terms 
and in the IPID.  Im not persuaded that this important requirement is highlighted clearly 
enough within the IPID, being placed within a box in the middle of page two. And while 
Admiral states Mr and Mrs S had opportunities to add cruise cover during the sale, its 
provided me with limited evidence of what they were shown during the sales process by the 
policy seller. Nor do I think that simply requiring a policyholder to tick a box during an online 
sale to confirm that theyve read a document is enough for an insurer to show its met its 
obligation to set out the policy terms and conditions clearly.
Page one of the IPID suggests that cruise cover is only required for a list of specified events 
 it doesnt indicate that the cover is needed for any cover for claims which happen on a 
cruise. As I set out above, I think that even if Mr and Mrs S had cross-referenced the IPID 
with the cruise cover detailed in the policy, theyd have reasonably understood that it only 
applied to the specified insured events listed in the cruise cover section.
It's clear that Admiral strongly disagrees with my findings regarding the clarity of the general 
exclusion and Ive considered its response carefully. But for the reasons Ive given, I still 
dont think the clause is set out in a clear and unambiguous way. I accept Admirals intention 
may have been to exclude all claims for events which take place on a cruise unless the add-
on has been purchased. Nonetheless, this isnt what the term actually says. And Im still not 
persuaded that Admiral has shown that Mr S foot infection was caused by or was as a result 
of the trip being a cruise. It remains the case then that I dont think Admiral has shown it was 
fair for it to rely on the general exclusion to turn down this claim.
As the drafter of the policy, Admiral was well-placed to include a clear and specific exclusion 
for any claims which take place during a cruise holiday unless the optional add-on has been 
purchased. I still dont think the totality of the policy documentation makes this important 
restriction on cover sufficiently clear. And so it follows that my final decision is the same as 
my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Reconsider Mr and Mrs S medical expenses claim, in line with the remaining terms
and conditions of the policy;
Pay Mr and Mrs S total compensation of £200 (less the £100 its already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman