DRN-3591109
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Santander UK Plc registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Mr S had an account with Santander since September 2020. In December 2020, a linked 
savings account was opened too, using Mr Ss online banking. This was used to receive and 
pass on fraudulent funds, also via Mr Ss online banking, on his mobile phone.
Mr S says he didnt open the savings account and knows nothing about these payments. He 
says he did keep a record of his online banking security details, but this was on his phone  
which he kept with him, he never lost, and no one else had regular access to. He lived alone, 
and no one close to him had access to his bank account, and no one had asked him to 
receive or pass on funds.
Santander found that the payments had been made from Mr Ss mobile phone, at his usual 
IP address. They closed his accounts and registered a marker at CIFAS.
Mr S says the police visited him for a welfare check, and they told him Santander had asked 
them to check on him following a phone call. But he says that phone call wasnt made by 
him, which he feels is suspicious. He would like the voices to be compared. Santander dont 
have a record of this call.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S didnt 
agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, Santander were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr S had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I think Santander did have sufficient grounds to register this marker. 
Ill explain why.
Santander received a number of reports from various banks that victims had been defrauded 
into sending Mr S money. And this money was then passed on very quickly using Mr Ss 
online banking app. So Santander certainly had good grounds to look into this.
Im satisfied from Santanders technical evidence that Mr Ss registered mobile phone was 
used to access his online banking and pass on the proceeds of fraud. And this activity 
happened over a period of several days, from early morning to late at night. But from what 
Mr S has told us, no one else had regular access to his phone, he had it with him 99% of 
the time, and it didnt go missing. And I certainly think he wouldve noticed if someone was 
constantly using his phone and banking app without his permission for days on end. Its also 
unclear how anyone wouldve been able to get past his phones security without his 
permission.
Further, Mr Ss online banking security details were used to log in and to authorise the 
payments in dispute. Mr S says he didnt give these details to anyone, and the only record of 
them was on his phone  which again: was with him, did not get lost, and was not given to 
anyone else. So I dont see how someone would have learned his online banking security 
details without his permission. 
The IP addresses used during the fraud match the IP addresses from Mr Ss genuine 
activity, going back to when he first set up his online banking. This also strongly suggests 
that the fraudulent activity was done by Mr S or someone hed given his permission to.
There is no likely or plausible way that this was done by someone Mr S didnt know. It would 
not have been realistically possible for them to have stolen Mr Ss phone for days on end 
without him noticing, nor to have accessed it without his permission. And Mr S had his phone 
with him afterwards, meaning the unknown thief would then need to have given it back to 
him  but theyd have had no good reason to return his phone, and its not plausible that they 
could have done so without him ever noticing. Theres also no reasonable explanation for 
how they wouldve been able to open the disputed savings account weeks beforehand, or 
why their IP addresses would have matched Mr Ss genuine activity.
Ive also considered whether someone known to Mr S could have done this without his 
consent, such as a friend or family member. But I dont think thats likely or plausible either. 
Again, I dont see how they could have accessed Mr Ss phone and online banking app so 
many times over multiple days without him ever noticing. Nor why theyd be at his usual IP 
addresses. According to Mr S, he lived alone, no one he knew had access to his phone or 
account, and no one had asked him to do this. And when we asked if there was anyone 
close to him who he thought could have done this, Mr S didnt name anyone.
The last possibility is that Mr S carried out the fraudulent activity himself, or allowed 
someone else to do it with his consent. This would explain why he received the fraudulent 
funds directly, how his mobile phone and online banking app were used so often over such a 
significant period without his phone going missing and without him reporting that anything 
was wrong at the time, how the person doing so knew his security details from the offset, 
and why the IP addresses matched his genuine activity.
Further, while I understand Mr S denies opening the savings account, this was also done on 
his mobile phones banking app, accessed using his correct security details, at a usual IP 
address of his, weeks before the fraud. And he would have received an email confirming the 
account was opened  at the same email address hes been using to talk to us. Further, 
I can see he accessed his online banking a number of times between the opening of the 
savings account and the fraud, and he would have seen the account then. But he didnt tell 
Santander that anything was wrong about this savings account until after the fraud.Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr S 
couldve authorised the fraudulent activity or given someone else permission to do it.
I do acknowledge Mr Ss points about being visited by the police. But Ive not found a record 
on Santanders end of the call which he says caused that visit. So its not possible to 
compare the voices. And the other evidence strongly supports that the disputed activity 
happened with Mr Ss consent. So I dont think this incident changes things.
To summarise, Mr Ss genuine mobile phone and banking app were used very frequently 
over several days to receive and pass on the proceeds of fraud. Based on the evidence, 
there isnt a plausible way an unknown person did this, nor that someone known to Mr S did 
this without his permission. The only likely possibility remaining is that Mr S made the 
disputed transactions or gave someone else permission to make them, which fits with the 
evidence at hand. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult 
message for Mr S to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, 
Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
So based on everything Ive seen, I think its fair that Santander registered the appropriate 
marker at CIFAS. It follows that I also think its fair that Santander closed Mr Ss accounts, 
which they were allowed to do in situations like this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman