DRN-3458014
The complaint
Ms S complained because Santander UK plc closed her account and recorded a marker 
against her name with the anti-fraud organisation CIFAS.
What happened
On 8 September 2020, Santander blocked Miss Ss accounts and wrote asking her to get in 
touch. Miss S rang, and Santander asked her about credits into her account. She told 
Santander that shed asked for financial help from relatives abroad after her fathers death. 
She said she didnt know the funds had been fraudulent. Santander asked her for evidence 
that she was entitled to the money.
There were four credits involved, all sent by different individuals:
5 September £1,105.00
9 September £1,000.00
10 September   £895.00
8 October £1,000.00
In all cases, Miss S had moved the money to her savings account the same day or the 
following day. 
In a letter which Santander received on 2 November, Miss S said she was writing about the 
£1,000 credit on 8 October. She said her father had died and relatives wanted to help her as 
she was in the UK at university. She said it was part of a cultural and religious tradition in her 
home country. So relatives had gathered money, and her uncle had then transferred to a 
friend, and the friend had sent it to Miss S. She provided contact details for her uncle, but 
said he hadnt been able to get a reply from the friend who had sent the money. Miss S said 
she personally knew no details about the transaction.
Santander closed Miss Ss accounts and recorded a CIFAS fraud marker against her name. 
In its final response to Miss Ss complaint, Santander explained that the terms and 
conditions allowed it to close accounts at any time without notice where it was aware that 
keeping the account open would be unlawful or cause it to be in breach of its legal or 
regulatory requirements. And it also explained that it didnt have to give further information 
about how it had made its decision.
Miss S complained to this service. She said that her uncle had sent the money through a 
money agency because there was no international banking in her home country. She said 
shed received the money from the agency her uncle had used. When Santander had asked 
for evidence, she could only provide screenshots of the transfer, and she said the money 
agency which her uncle had used to send the money had never replied. 
Miss S said that this had led to a CIFAS marker against her name for misuse of facility. 
She said this was unfair because if she wanted to work in future, shed need to open a bank 
account which would be difficult with the CIFAS marker. She asked for the marker to be 
removed.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. He explained that the Misuse of facility 
CIFAS marker related to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. He set out what 
CIFAS says about recording such a marker  that there must be reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or a financial crime has been committed, and that the evidence must be clear, 
relevant and rigorous, so the organisation could report the person to the police.
The adjudicator considered that Santander had received reasonable evidence to suggest 
that Miss Ss account had received fraudulent funds. Miss S hadnt been able to supply 
supporting evidence to show she was legitimately entitled to the money. He also pointed out 
that if Miss Ss relatives had wanted to send money from abroad, they could have used wire 
transfer, or sent the money through their own bank, not via third parties. And the money had 
come from four different third parties abroad.
So the adjudicator thought it was more likely than not that Miss S was complicit in receiving 
fraudulent payments to her account. This meant it wasnt unfair for Santander to have 
recorded a fraud marker against her name.
Miss S didnt accept this. She said she was the one who had been victimised, and it had 
been mentally exhausting. Miss S said that she had no information about the individuals 
whose money had credited her account, and she had never been curious about that. She 
said the money had come from cash abroad in the village where her late father had been 
born, and some money which hed had in a small business. She said her uncle had just said 
she should expect some money in her bank, which had happened. 
Miss S said that when Santander had blocked the account and recorded fraud, shed asked 
her uncle about the money. Hed told her that he didnt know how to transfer money 
internationally, so hed gone to a friend who  knew how to send money abroad through an 
agency. She said shed lost her father at the time and her mother had been ill with covid. Her 
uncle hadnt been able to trace the friend whod found the agency for him. She provided the 
contact details for her uncle and his contacts, which shed supplied to Santander.
Miss Ss complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIFAS is a fraud prevention agency. Members, usually financial organisations, can record 
information about their customers. There are different categories, and here, Santander 
recorded a Misuse of facility marker against Miss Ss name. This marker is recorded when 
an account, policy, or some other financial service is used fraudulently by the account 
holder. This type of marker stays on the record for six years.
The organisation recording a CIFAS marker must meet a high standard of proof. CIFAS sets 
this out in this way:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently 
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So Ive considered whether or not the evidence which Santander had, met these 
requirements.I find that it did. Santanders evidence is compelling, and some of my reasons are that:
- Miss S wasnt able to provide Santander with any documentary evidence to back up 
what she said about her uncle having arranged with a friend to send the money 
through an agency;
- The fraudulent credits into Miss Ss account came not from one agency, but from four 
different individuals;
- If Miss Ss uncle or other relatives had wanted to send genuine funds from abroad, 
they could have used wire transfer, or sent them via their own banks, rather than 
through third parties; 
- Miss S also benefited from the money, which she transferred promptly to her savings 
account. Theres nothing to suggest that she was a money mule who transferred 
the funds to a third party under duress;
- If Miss Ss uncle or other relatives had been tricked by third party fraudsters (like the 
friend or the agency Miss S mentioned) into sending them the money, that money 
would never have reached Miss S. The fraudsters would have stolen it.
So I consider that Santander had fair and reasonable grounds to believe that Miss S was 
complicit in the fraud and to record a CIFAS marker against her name.
Ive also looked at Santanders closure of Miss Ss accounts. The terms and conditions of 
her account set out rules about closure of accounts. Section 17.2 sets out that customers, or 
Santander, can close the account, and it explains the notice which Santander give in these 
circumstances. It says:
If you are in significant breach of these Conditions  we may close your account on giving 
immediate notice or less notice than that specified in this Condition.
Section 17.3 goes on to say:
It is a condition that you do not:

c) misuse your account; or
d) act dishonestly with us; or
e) act in any way to give rise to reasonable suspicion of fraud or other criminal activities.
And, if any of the above applies, you will be in breach of these Conditions and we can close 
your account on giving you immediate notice or less notice than that specified in Condition 
17.2 in Section 2A.
We may also close your account at any time without notice where we are aware that keeping 
your account open would be unlawful or cause us to be in breach of any of our legal or 
regulatory requirements.
In the light of these sections, and all the circumstances of Miss Ss accounts, I find that 
Santander acted fairly and reasonably when it closed Miss Ss accounts without notice.
My final decision
My final decision is that I consider Santander UK plc acted fairly and reasonably when 
closing Miss Ss accounts and recording a CIFAS marker against her name. So I do not 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Belinda KnightOmbudsman