DRN-3958006
The complaint
Mr G complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL):
- incorrectly allowed him to hold stock in his Lifetime ISA (LISA) that did not meet 
HMRCs eligibility criteria;
- did not communicate clearly with him when it identified that he had ineligible stock in 
his LISA; and
- only offered options to put matters right that were disadvantageous to him.
To put matters right, Mr G wants HL to pay him £1,756.43 (the amount of his crystallized 
loss) and compensate him for the time he has spent dealing with this matter.
What happened
On 16 December 2022, HL notified Mr G it had identified that a holding in his LISA was 
ineligible. It explained that it had informed HMRC, and that it would pay the tax penalty due.
It set out that Mr G had two options available, he could either transfer his holding to an HL 
share dealing account, free of charge, or he could sell the holding. It set out that if Mr G had 
not taken action before 5 January 2023, it would automatically sell the holding on his behalf. 
HL says that HMRC asked it to remove the ineligible holding from the LISA immediately, and 
the length of time the holding remained within the LISA directly impacted the financial 
penalty it would have to pay to HMRC. 
Mr G did not take any action in relation to the holding or contact HL about its offer to move 
the holding to a HL share dealing account. HL therefore sold his holding on 6 January 2023.
Mr G complained to HL. He raised a number of points, in particular he queried why HL had 
allowed him to hold ineligible shares in his LISA and he said the sale of the shares by HL 
had crystallised a loss of over £1,750.
HL accepted that failings on its part meant it hadnt identified any sooner that the holding 
was ineligible. It apologised for its error. To compensate Mr G for the trouble and upset this 
matter had caused him it credited his loyalty bonus account with £100. But it said it didnt 
think it needed to compensate Mr G for the loss he suffered when it sold his holding. It said 
that although an error on its part had meant Mr G had been able to purchase stock in his 
LISA that was not approved by HMRC, the decision to buy the stock was Mr Gs alone. As 
this was the case it said it didnt think HL could be held responsible for any financial loss Mr 
G had suffered as a result of a fall in the share price. 
It reiterated that it had also offered Mr G the option to sell the holding in the LISA and 
repurchase it within a HL share dealing account. It offered to waive the annual management 
charges if Mr G wanted to move his holding to a share dealing account and to reimburse Mr 
G for the dealing costs involved.
Mr G was not satisfied with HLs response and referred his complaint to this service.
Having considered Mr Gs complaint, our investigator said he didnt think HL needed to do 
more than it had already done to put matters right. He said he felt that HL had provided Mr G 
with sufficient notice of the options available to him before it sold his holding.  And he said he 
felt the options HL offered Mr G were fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr G did not accept our investigators view and asked for his complaint to be determined by 
an ombudsman. He said:
- he hadnt received a £100 credit from HL;
- HL hadnt communicated clearly with him about its error, and he said, had it not 
been for HL's wrongdoing, I would have not sold the [name] shares, and I would not 
have suffered a loss;
- he didnt think asking the consumer to sell shares or else be forced to sell them 
constitute a fair treatment of clients;
- he said the felt it was ethically wrong that HL had  been allowed to dispose of my 
money when they make a mistake; and 
- he felt the offer to transfer shares into a share dealing account was coercive in 
nature and, again, detrimental to me as a consumer (as all future capital gains on the 
stock would be taxable, contrary to what happens in a LISA portfolio).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that HL incorrectly allowed Mr G to hold an investment in his Lifetime ISA 
(LISA) that did not meet HMRCs eligibility criteria. What is in dispute is whether the redress 
HL has offered Mr G is sufficient. Having carefully considered this matter I think the £100 HL 
has paid Mr G is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and I dont think 
it needs to do more to put matters right. Ill explain why.
payment from HL
Mr G says he has not received the £100 credit HL says it has paid to his account. HL has 
confirmed the credit was made on 12 January 2023. If, on checking his HL account Mr G is 
still not satisfied that £100 was credited to his loyalty bonus account he should notify HL so it 
can investigate this matter further.
communication with Mr G
Mr G says HL did not communicate clearly with him when it identified that he was holding an 
ineligible investment in his LISA. In particular, Mr G complains that the communication he 
received in December 2022 from HL told him there was a message that needed to be 
read on the HL messaging system but did not provide any details. Mr G says he found this 
method of communication cumbersome, and he has noted that when HL sold the holding it 
emailed him a copy of the contract note. 
I am mindful of the points Mr G has made regarding how HL has communicated with him. I 
appreciate that he found an email directing him to a secure message a cumbersome way of 
communicating, but I cant reasonably find that HL wasnt entitled to email Mr G to notify him 
that a secure message was available for him to review. I note that HLs terms and conditions 
set out:A6 - communications
We will contact you by post, email or via our secure message centre. If you have chosen a 
Paperless Service, our primary form of communication with you will be via the secure 
message centre. 
As HLs terms and conditions clearly set out that its primary form of communication would be 
via its secure message service, I am satisfied that HL did not act incorrectly when it sent Mr 
G an email directing him to check his secure messages.
It is unfortunate if Mr G did not review the secure message, but I cant reasonably hold HL 
responsible for this.
Options HL offered Mr G to put matters right 
Mr G says the only options HL offered to put things right were disadvantageous to him. 
As HL has explained, HMRC asked it to remove the ineligible holding from the LISA account 
immediately. As this was the case, I think the three weeks HL allowed Mr G to sell his stock 
or take up its offer to hold it outside the LISA wrapper was not unreasonable in the 
circumstances.
I appreciate Mr G feels that asking the consumer to sell shares or else be forced to sell 
them does not constitute a fair treatment of clients, but I must take into account that he was 
not permitted to hold these shares in his LISA. HL was required to act promptly to rectify the 
situation and could not have allowed Mr G to continue to hold ineligible stock in his LISA.
HL acknowledged that Mr G might want to continue to hold the stock and offered him the 
option to hold it in a share dealing account and offered to waive the dealing and annual fee 
for the account if he chose this option. I think this was a fair and reasonable offer.
I note Mr G has said he would lose out if he took up this offer as the shares would be held 
outside the LISA tax wrapper. I do understand Mr Gs position, but the fact remains that he 
wasnt entitled to hold the stock in a LISA so, in-line with HMRC regulations, he would not 
have been able to benefit from the tax benefits of holding it in a LISA.
As I set out above, it is not in dispute that HL made an error when it allowed Mr G to hold the 
stock in his LISA. When HL identified its error, it contacted HMRC and took steps to put 
matters right. I do understand that Mr G wanted to continue to hold the stock in his LISA, but 
this was not possible under HMRC rules.
I note that the share price has continued to fall since HL sold the stock on Mr Gs behalf in 
early January 2023, so I cannot reasonably find that Mr G has suffered a financial loss as a 
result of the sale of his stock. If Mr G wishes to reinvest in the stock, he can currently do so 
at a much lower entry point.
I think the £100 HL credited to Mr Gs account and its offer to cover all the repurchase costs 
if Mr G wanted to remain invested in the stock was fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I dont think Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited needs to do any more than it has already done to put matters 
right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman